ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	I will see if Mr El Yassini is already present in the Chamber. I just saw him come in. Then I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. My father was trained and worked as a nurse. He started in Morocco in the 1960s to help people in health care. In Morocco it was quite common in the 1960s that the doctor sometimes didn't show up, because he went home halfway through the shift to have a nice long lunch. The people in the waiting room were often in pain and insecurity, something my father couldn't stand. He then went to the doctor and, when the doctor was absent again, started treating people in a safe way. If my dad had lived and worked in this time, I'm sure he would've immediately trained as a physician assistant. His heart always moved him to help people, but a medical school took him too long. But he wanted to work on his own. After all, he was a bit of a stubborn man. The training as a physician assistant had been really ideal for him and I know that he is very proud of all nurses, nurses specialists and physician assistants in the Netherlands, who are working every day from their heart in the care to help people. Now the care in Morocco is not comparable to the care in the Netherlands. Our curative care is the best in Europe and in the Netherlands you are entitled to good and appropriate care. In addition, we want to be helped quickly when visiting the hospital. Quite a lot is being asked of our doctors. That's why doctors spend about ten years doing training, training and studies before they get to work as doctors. However, there are also actions that doctors have to do, which do not require long-term training and training. Certain tasks of doctors can be independently taken over by medical professionals with the right short training. To this end, there is this new category of medical professionals, the physician assistants. We are now going to include them in the list of registered professions and the VVD is very pleased with that. The VVD is a strong supporter of innovation in healthcare. The redeployment of tasks is part of this and the VVD has been committed to the taking over of duties of doctors by physician assistants and nurses specialists, provided that they are adequately trained. This amendment of the law makes this possible. In recent years, the Minister has been committed to the inclusion of the physician assistant and the nurse specialist in the BIG Act and we support her in that. The physician assistant and nurse specialist take a number of tasks away from the doctors, so that the doctors can better focus on their specialty. They can now do what they specialize in. The p.a. and the U.S. have the right training and experience and physician assistants have to register in the BIG register. Nurses are already in the BIG register and should continue to train. In this way, the work within the medical team is distributed smarter and better and people who need care in the Netherlands are helped in a safe and fast way. During the experimental phase of the last five years, it has been found that the physician assistants can effectively and efficiently carry out reserved activities independently. An important condition for us is that the physician assistant and therefore also nursing specialist are subject to disciplinary law. By including the physician assistants in the BIG Act, they will indeed be included. Finally, it concerns the safety of patients. It is very important for the VVD that it is guaranteed, now and in the future. We want to give space to medical professionals without sacrificing quality and safety. This space is crucial for the development of new professionals. The temporary AMvB, the decision on training requirements and field of expertise, lists in Article 5 (3) the cross-compliance with the eight reserved actions of the physician assistant. The term "limited complexity" is mentioned in subparagraph (a). For me, that definition is still a little unclear. My question to the Minister is therefore whether if she makes a new AMvB, she can see whether the term'manageable complexity' is better than the term 'limited complexity'. The objective of manageable complexity is to prevent damage by making cooperation agreements with doctors. There is also room for the pre-training of the physician assistant, the experience and the patient groups within the institution. There have been no reports, complaints or incidents in the last five years, as I have read in the file. That is good, but that is why it is important that we also take into account the fact that the definition can be properly verified at the time when it is done. I am curious to know what the Minister thinks of the term'manageable complexity' compared to the term 'limited complexity'. In practice, we see two situations that the VVD wants to draw attention to. Obstetrics is not covered by the eight reserved acts. However, there is an accredited course in physician assistant clinical obstetrics in Rotterdam. All p.a.You know, the ones who influx here have obstetrics as pre-school. After their graduation they cannot be used as a physician assistant clinical obstetrics without their BIG registration as a midwife. They must therefore be registered twice in the BIG register and must therefore comply with the requirements for continuing training and the promotion of expertise in order to be eligible for re-registration. We are talking about about 223 people. That's about 20% of the total profession right now. What steps could we take in the future to perhaps make the ninth reserved act out of the midwifery? Is that possible? In addition, the VVD calls attention to the physician assistant in the ggz. In January of this year the NZa decided to release the occupational table in the ggz. The CDA asked a number of questions about this during the preparation of the law. The release of that occupational table in the ggz means that physician assistants in the ggz can open so-called "dbc's" and write time from 2018. Unfortunately, physician assistants can write time, but cannot trace this back to a product. In other words, there is a treatment and time is written, but the physician assistant cannot declare this directly to the health insurance companies or possibly to the youth-ggz at the municipality. Can the Minister help speed up this process, together with the NZa, the health insurance companies and the institutions, so that they will be reimbursed directly in 2018 rather than indirectly via a storage facility? I am very curious about the Minister's answers and I thank her for this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's familiar again: Thursday at the end of the afternoon, a care debate. Like we haven't been out of here in the last few months. All right, I'll get to the content. We have seen in recent years that both the physician assistant and the nursing specialist can make an important contribution to the care. With such a new function, it is of course also very important that everyone is aware of the tasks and competences. I therefore ask the Minister how many hospitals now work with the physician assistant. Does the Minister have an overview of that? I'm curious about that. D66 is in favour of the best care. Who isn't? But in order to achieve this, you must also dare to take steps and admit new professions if this contributes to patient safety and the best care. I would like to hear from the Minister how she thinks that these professions have increased patient safety. Are patients sufficiently familiar with these new professions? And how do patients become familiar with that? Do they know who they're dealing with and what the authority is? As of 2012, physician assistants and nursing specialists will be able to perform designated activities independently. That is a mouthful, but in practice this means that they can perform and delegate independently catheterisations, surgical treatments, injections and punctures. The evaluation has shown that these opportunities are indeed being exploited and that the measure has proved effective. As I said, if this contributes to good care, of course it has our support. Previously, the evaluation also showed that endoscopyes, elective cardioversions and defibrillations should not be performed by these professionals. But follow-up studies showed that this would not lead to any risks. I would very much like to receive a brief explanation from the Minister. Is this patient safety now guaranteed with the results of this study? The Minister has, of course, also sent a letter of amendment to this bill. Mr President, as you know, experimental professions have so far been the highest disciplinary measure in the world. There is still a step to be taken in the area of patient safety. Because in these situations, professionals remain competent during the experiment and can stay at work. My group supports the broadening of disciplinary law for experimental professions, so that professional action and omission are fully covered by disciplinary law. The Council of State had a few critical questions about this. Among other things, it dealt with the feasibility and possibility of disciplinary proceedings following the expiry of the temporary register. Can the Minister give a brief thought to this? So I do have a few questions, but it is clear that D66 supports the legislative amendment. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks welcomes and strongly supports the proposed amendment to the BIG Act. We believe that patients can be helped well and more quickly if nursing specialists and physician assistants are allowed to perform more actions. Their potential will then be exploited as well as possible and it will relieve the doctor in his or her work package. Doctors can focus even better on their specialist tasks. With this development, the Netherlands is an international leader in job restructuring. For me and for GroenLinks that is something to be proud of. I would like to talk to the Minister about the labour market prospects of the physician assistant, and about one of the preconditions of the AMvB to be received. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there is always a need to consider how the care can be more conveniently arranged, how tasks can be rearranged and, of course, how care can be made better and more personal. There is no need to avoid vested interests. It is important to make real room for the use of physician assistants in healthcare practice. I understand that the deployment and number of places of physician assistants and nursing specialists can be even better, especially in the first line, ggz and care for the elderly. Recently, researchers from the Radboudumc and the Hogeschool van Arnhem and Nijmegen concluded in their research into task redeployment in the care of the elderly that there should be even more room for physician assistants and nursing specialists. With regard to GroenLinks, more use can also be made of physician assistants. This is still hampered by the fact that physician assistants cannot open and write DBs independently. In fact, they're being put out of play with this. How does the Minister view this? Is the Minister prepared to register physician assistant as a ggz profession in line with the legal autonomy? And how does she intend to contribute to a better use of physician assistants in the care of the elderly? I'd like a response. We have to deal with many unfulfilled vacancies in healthcare, especially in care for the elderly and mental health. The use of physician assistants can never solve this deficit completely but can contribute to it. In this light, it is logical that demand for physician assistants will only increase in the coming years. This means that more training places should also be available. Is the Minister prepared to allow the Capacity Body to investigate space in the care of the elderly, the first line and the ggz for creating even more training places for physician assistants and nursing specialists? I'd like a response. I would also like to draw particular attention to the position of the physician assistant midwife. I understand that there is still uncertainty about the accreditation of physician assistant clinical obstetrician. A group of about 220 people do not get a contract as a physician assistant despite their further education. This is because certain specific reserved actions are not included in the experimental article, 36a. Can the Minister clarify this? When will this problem be solved for this group of people? Is it also prepared to regulate in the law that obstetrician activities may be carried out by physician assistants, possibly in conjunction with research into efficiency and quality? And if so, when can this be arranged? In this way, the physician assistant clinical obstetrician can be better used as a physician assistant in practice. I'd like a response. Finally, the term "complex care" as described in Article 4 (3) which lists round conditions with regard to the eight reserved actions of the physician assistant. Article 3a states that the actions of "limited complexity" may be carried out by the physician assistant. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this term is not appropriate for the daily reality in which these people operate. It's not exactly clear what complex care is. In addition, per physician assistant differs what he or she may or may not perform. Of course, it is a good thing that certain very complex actions are carried out exclusively by medical specialists. But it would be appropriate for physician assistants, especially if they have been active for some time, to be able to carry out certain reasonably complex actions, obviously in consultation with the medical specialist, but that goes without saying as far as I am concerned. Therefore, I would be in favour of replacing the term "limited care" with " manageable care." Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks? Following this, is it prepared to adapt this to the still to be received General Measure of Management? Finally. We are satisfied that the letter of amendment has established that endoscopy, elective cardioversion and defibrillation can also be performed by physician assistants and nursing specialists. We hope that, as has been said, this will contribute to good and targeted care for patients, hopefully helping them faster. When can we expect the first evaluation of this, I ask the Minister. Finally. It is clear that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is wholeheartedly in favour of this legislative amendment. It is not often that we can comment here with such enthusiasm on a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you very much. As chairman, I have to make sure that we have the debates in Dutch here, so with 'physician assistant' I do have a little bit of trouble in that regard. Is there no alternative? Maybe the Minister can come up with an alternative. I call Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr President, I am sure everyone thinks that this work is agreed, but my first sentence was literally: "President. We're talking about the physician assistant today." I think, in plain Dutch, there's nothing wrong with the term "doctor assistant."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	We have a winner! Oh, the President has opened a debate; that is never good! Mrs Dijkstra has a question for you, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	I'd say it's a very good one. It also makes sense to say, but a doctor's assistant is now a medical student in training. Then you get really big confusion. I didn't ask the Minister for nothing: do the patients actually know who they're dealing with? Anyway, let's not talk about that. At least we shouldn't call it a "doctor's assistant," unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	Then the price is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u11	I think Mrs Dijkstra has a point. Apart from englishing our language, which we all want to be critical of, it is a point that a lot of people really don't know what "physician assistant" is about: "What is that then?; I really have no idea!" That is why I sincerely think it is good to look for another term that covers the load and can be understood in Dutch. I had planned to say "doctor" today. I hope I have permission to do so until we have found a better term; I am highly recommended. Then I'll trade him back in as soon as I can. I am standing here today in front of all those caregivers who, to the best of their conscience, do their work every day, who work every day to provide good care to those who need it. We can very well imagine that they are happy to develop further and also to expand their tasks. However, unlike the previous speakers, we are somewhat less enthusiastic about job restructuring, which we prefer to call 'the cutting-up of work', because that is what it is all about. It seems to be an advantage, but we also think it could be a trap. A doctor is of course trained for the whole human being and focuses on the overall diagnosis and treatment of a patient. The doctors have been studying this for years. The possibility to prescribe medicines is also preceded by a university study of several years. However, this legislative proposal gives a professional group which focuses on part of the care additional opportunities to take over the duties of the doctor. This brings not only the tasks but also the responsibilities, in this case, to the assistant. How does the Minister view this, is our question to the Minister? Doesn't she see a risk that we're gonna shatter care too much? What's her take on this case? Doesn't it seem like we're giving the resident something nice, when we're actually putting a lot of responsibilities on him that are supposed to end up with the doctor? Last month a study was published by Radboud University in collaboration with Hogeschool van Arnhem and Nijmegen. That was about the so-called task redeployment, the cutting-up of work. The investigation was actually quite critical. In short, the conclusion was that the cutting-up of tasks would lead to a loss of care and could lead to an increasing workload. One of the conclusions was that cutting up this work does not necessarily contribute to effective care. Is the Minister able to respond to the findings in that report? How does she feel about that? Another point we would like to put on the table is the recent news about graduate basic doctors who cannot find a place to specialise further. We think that is a problem. In the light of the point we are discussing today, we are wondering whether we are doing things in the wrong order. Shouldn't we at least at least ensure that every basic physician who wants to specialize can also specialize in this: realize that there are enough places to do so before we move on to other measures? Finally, the word 'experimenting professions'. That word has already fallen a few times. As far as we are concerned, it is not quite clear what kind of professions they are and what their framework is. Can the Minister give us a little more explanation? What exactly is that? About registering in the BIG register, we wonder if it is really necessary to register the specialised care separately. Is it not possible to register a basic profession in the BIG and, after specialization in a particular direction, get a note instead of having a mess of different professions such as physician assistant................................................................................................................................................................................. Finally, I have a question about the deadline. The time limit within which you could still lodge a complaint against a professional concerned after the register has been closed is now six months. We're wondering if that six-month period isn't a little short. We've asked about that before. After all, you may need time to recover from a medical failure. You may be six months away and you may not be entitled to the complaint procedure. Are there any possibilities to extend the deadline? How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank orthopedic surgeon Iprenburg. He's the reason I'm standing here again today, instead of somewhere for Christmas. Not everyone will like that I'm back there so soon, but I'm very grateful that we live in a time when you can have surgery, for example on a hernia like in my case. I think 100 years ago you would have just been in bad shape and you could have given up on something as beautiful as this. That's why there's a very grateful person here. We're discussing a task redeployment today among medical personnel. It was created to deal with staff shortages. More staff means better selection and better selection promotes quality. Scissors, on the other hand, are at the expense of quality. We have therefore always been against a numerus fixus in health education. Although the lottery system has been abolished, there is still a limited number of training and placement places. In the new professions such as the physician assistant and nursing specialist, the number of internships is also a bottleneck. We can think of so many new professions in healthcare, but let us not stare blindly at this phenomenon that is actually a sham solution to a shortage of staff. The real solution is that there will be more training places and more professionals. So we're against this? Absolutely not. We're in favour. The more higher and better educated healthcare professionals, the better. It's just very simple. That's why we're in favour. We were also in favour of launching the experiment in 2011. We are also pleased that the evaluation has shown that it has been successful. We are in favour of the task redeployment alongside broadening training places and hiring more staff. More staff also means more choice for the patient and better service through, for example, more evening and weekend hours. Has this been achieved? Has the service been improved? Can patients visit the police more often in the evening? Do patients have more choice or do they now see so many different caregivers that they no longer see the forest through the trees? How does the patient even know who's at his bed? How does the patient know what caregivers can or can't do to him? Can the patient ask to be treated by a health care professional trained as a medical specialist? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I'm gonna pay for it. Does this task redeployment go hand in hand with a tariff redeployment? I think that is an important question. We all know that medical specialists are very expensive. A nurse specialist is undoubtedly a lot cheaper. But is the patient also cheaper off if he is helped by a nursing specialist? Will the bill be lower for all of us or will it ultimately only benefit the hospital from the task redeployment? Is there any monitoring of differences in the quality of the caregivers or in the prescribing behaviour of the various caregivers? It is immediately very much encouraged to speak of an alarming message, but we read in the Journal of Psychiatry that there are still doubts about that. I have one last question. These are powers to perform reserved acts, such as injections and punctures. It's about implementing and delegationing it. Is a physician assistant or a nurse specialist going to delegate to a third party again? Can the Minister make it clear again what exactly is meant by that? It's going to be quite specific in the law, but I'm not entirely clear on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you very much. We're all very happy to have you back. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. About the word "physician assistant." I've always been surprised about that, too. I've been trying to imagine how someone who's a little scheming pronounces that. Then nobody's gonna follow what it's about anymore. The discussion was just about the doctor's assistant. Mrs Dijkstra rightly said that he is now called a specialist doctor in training, an aios. Back in the day, Grandma spoke, was called an agio, an assistant medical examiner in training. Maybe we should think about going back there again, so that we don't use that horrible word without wronging all the people who do that fantastic job anymore. Are you supposed to imagine being told that you can go to the physician assistant, you ask: who? That while the work they do is very good. I would like to say straight away that this is a good proposal as far as the CDA Group is concerned. Since the entry into force of the Law on Occupations in Individual Healthcare, important developments have taken place within and outside the healthcare sector that affect the functioning of the BIG Act. One of these developments is job restructuring. Task recasting is a process that in principle arises in practice and is not imposed from above. Once in a while, however, there is a need to make the task recast that has taken place more structural because, for example, we are running against the limits of legislation and regulation. With the bill we are discussing today, we add a ninth appeal to Article 3 of the BIG Act, namely that of physician assistant. It's literally in the legal text, too. In addition, the specialty nursing specialist is added. These are two relatively new professions in the Netherlands. The evaluation shows that adding these two professions contributes to the more efficient organisation of care processes and the proper use of professionals. As mentioned above, the CDA supports this development. At first there were still concerns from the medical profession about the conditions under which the physician assistant may work. In the written replies, the Minister states that the quality guarantees are laid down by General Measure of Management and that they will be the same as during the experiment. Can the Minister confirm once again that this is the case? Can it indicate whether the content of this General Measure is aligned with the KNMG? When this law is introduced, two professions remain in the experimental phase, namely the clinical technologist and the Bachelor's medical aid provider, who also has such a beautiful Dutch word. This legislative proposal also affects these professions, since a register will also be established in future for experimental professions. Can the Minister indicate whether this means that such a register will now also be available for these two professions? If so, what are the registration costs of this? Finally, I would like to address a discussion point that the CDA has already mentioned in the written round, namely the position of the physician assistant in mental health care. We received signals that in ggz settings the p.a.In the meantime, I would like the physician assistants to be dismissed and no longer adopted following the decision of the Dutch Healthcare Authority to p.a.Not to be included in the DB Occupational Table. For the sake of clarity, that results in the work of a p.a. cannot be declared by the institution. Therefore, the institutions would prefer staff who do have a declarable status. It is not entirely clear to us whether this problem has been solved. That is why I have the following question. Does the Minister consider that the p.a.Do you ever have added value in the ggz? The Minister writes that the NZa decided in March to remove the distinction between time writing and supporting professions in the ggz occupational table. However, the Minister also writes that for new professions such as the p.a. in the ggz the time record does not yet count in the distraction to products. Then why is that? Does this mean that the problems of the p.a. haven't been solved in the ggz so far? Become a p.a.You know, the ggz is currently fired because they can't write time? What about the development of a new product structure for the ggz? Becomes the position of the p.a. Taken in there? If that is not the case, then what is it? Adding professions and specialties to the BIG Act is not common. We must also carry out such steps with the utmost care. The CDA supports this bill because we have the great added value of p.a.Let's see some nurses and specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you very much. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.15 p.m. and then proceed with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u16	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. This bill regulates two subjects, namely the independent competence for a number of reserved actions for the physician assistant and the nursing specialist, disciplinary law and a temporary register for experimental professions. I agree with anyone who says that a physician assistant can't be explained to your mother, because he has no idea. The term "doctor-assistant" gives far too much confusion with the doctors-assistants who are popularly known. That's medical school. I like that term very much, but it's confusing, because it already exists. As I have said, I have been asking everyone who has a good idea for years to give it to us, because it is also terrible. I find it very difficult to explain myself, because no one has an image. With a nurse specialist, you think it's about a nurse who specializes. That follows for everyone; you don't have to explain that. Task recast is the order of the day and will only increase due to the influence of technology and changing care demand. In 2003, the first p.a.In addition, more and more nursing specialists, then nurse practitioners, joined the labour market. The idea behind this task recast is that care is provided by professionals who are best trained to do so. More complex medical tasks by the doctor and more routine medical tasks by the p.a. and the U.S. It is a master's programme for a self-contained profession, with its own expertise, which can be better for certain treatments than the doctor. Its intention is not to cut back or to need fewer doctors, but it really is a nursing specialty. As a nurse you get a certain skill and professional characteristics that make you more suitable to do certain things than a doctor who is trained to actually do very different things. With effect from 1 January 2012, Article 36a has been added to the Law on Occupations in Individual Healthcare. On this basis, certain categories of professionals at General Measure of Management may, through an experiment, be independently empowered to carry out reserved activities identified in the measure for up to five years. At the same time as Article 36a enters into force, the General Measure of Management provides that nursing specialists and physician assistants may carry out a number of reserved activities independently through an experiment for up to five years. Therefore, no doctor's orders are required for this. I can remember very well the treatment of this law and the whole redeployment of the task in the beginning. The nurses pulled a lot of strings to get this done. They said: if we stop everything we do independently today, the whole concern will be flat. They also asked the following questions. Why are we allowed to carry out tasks on our own, but should we always do so under the extended arm? Why can we not answer to a disciplinary judge for these independent tasks and be dealt with on our own if necessary? Of course, it happened a long time ago. Only, it wasn't governed by the law. Here you see that we have settled in the law something that happened in practice a long time ago. And that's a good thing, because if you make independent decisions and actually have a self-employed profession, then it's important that you answer for a disciplinary judge when things go very wrong. The experiment has been monitored and evaluated in scientific research carried out by Maastricht University. The results were positive. The central question in the study was: to what extent is it effective or effective to have an independent power to the p.a.and to grant the nursing specialists for carrying out the reserved operations specified in the experiment, and in what operations is this so? The researchers concluded that part of the experiment, as I said, was formalization of daily practice. From the first study the researchers concluded that the independent competence of the nursing specialist and the p.a. to perform and delegate catheterisations, surgery, injections and punctures and prescribe UR medicines (only prescription medicines) has been shown to be effective. Maastricht University has carried out follow-up research into the three reserved actions of endoscopy, elective cardioversion and defibrillation to collect the additional data. The same research questions were used. Both studies show that the experiment to perform and delegate reserved actions, to a large extent by nursing specialists and p.a.It's been used. Care processes with reserved actions appear to be more efficient and care is carried out by the appropriate professional. The studies have further shown that all statutory conditions have been met and that no adverse effects have occurred as a result of the legislative amendment. It is, of course, extremely important that this can be seen. The experiments have thus shown the effectiveness of the task redeployment. That is why I have now come to the Chamber with this bill for the independent competence of the p.a. and the U.S. to regulate in a number of reserved operations in a structural manner. The second thing I want to take care of is equally important. This is because all the activities of the professional of an experimental profession are subject to disciplinary law and not only to the conduct of reserved acts, which is now regulated by law. In this way, for example, undesirable behaviour or misdiagnosis by a professional of an experimental profession may be examined disciplinaryly, as is the case with all other Article 3 professions, such as doctor or midwife. I would also like to see, during an experiment, the powers of the professionals taking part in the experiment be deprived of in the event of dysfunction. Now this can only be done in response to complaints about the conduct of the reserved acts. Then the disciplinary judge can impose a fine or give a warning or a reprimand. The Disciplinary Court cannot now prevent a professional from continuing to work during an experiment, even in the event of unwanted behaviour. That is not in the interests of patient safety. I therefore believe that this bill serves patient safety. That is what I am saying in reply to Mrs Keijzer's question. By setting up a temporary register for experimental professions, all disciplinary measures, such as suspension or removal, can be imposed and made public. If after the experiment it appears that the experimental profession as well as the p.a. Finally, the temporary register will be transferred to a definitive BIG register and any disciplinary measures imposed will be maintained even after the end of the experiment. I have been asked by the spokesmen of the VVD and GroenLinks and by others about the competence of the p.a. to carry out reserved acts in so far as limited complexity is concerned. The NAPA has indicated that the term "manageable complexity" fits better in current practice. The question is whether I'm willing to change this. When drawing up the General Measure of Management for the purpose of the experiment, careful consideration was given to whether it was justified to grant the power to the p.a. It is also well thought out about the conditions that the p.a. must comply with these reservations and other medical procedures. One of those conditions is limited complexity. This has not just been established, but has been established in consultation with those concerned. That's how we got here. With the limited complexity we have also experimented and those experiments have also been evaluated. The evaluation study has not shown that the criterion of limited complexity leads to a reduction in efficiency and care. So I want to stick to the way we did it in the experiment. If you do an experiment with "limited complexity" and if it shows that it is not manageable or that you have to use a different definition, I think you have every reason to adapt it. But if the experiment shows, as the Chamber has been able to see, that everyone is actually quite good at it, I find it strange to suddenly change it as a result of a green curl. It is precisely what we have experimented with and what has turned out to be positive that I would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u18	Not only is Napa critical about this. A report from iBMG was also published in February 2015, indicating that the legally established distinction between complex and non-complex care tasks for p.a.In practice, it is not appropriate. The criticism is therefore indeed broader. Has this been taken into account and evaluated when using this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u19	The evaluation has not shown that this term has led to misconceptions or complications. Everything that's known has been taken, of course. If you go into an experiment with A and it tests well, you have to hold on to it, I think, but you also have to stay in touch with each other, so that it is very clear what is and is not covered by it. I can now change it to another term at once, but who's to say that doesn't cause problems? Then I would do that very ad hoc, because I didn't experiment with that at all and I didn't test that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u20	The Minister is right to say that we should continue to consider how to adapt it, if necessary. How am I supposed to keep seeing how we're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u21	We've just done an experiment. This has been well tested and I want to include this in the law. If, after some time in practice, it turns out that there is a need for a different adaptation, you can always do it, but to just take out a term and throw in an untested term, it seems to me to be ad hoc.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u22	I fully agree with what the Minister has said, namely that we have had an experimental phase, at least with 'limited complexity', which shows that there is no need for another word, so to speak. But I am also pleased that the Minister has indicated that, if it turns out that it is necessary, we should all take a critical look at it. The only reason I mentioned it in my contribution is that I understand that there are no complaints or incidents with p.a.We've been in the experimental phase of the last five years. I'm getting signals from the workplace. P. a.Let us say that there is no complaint now, but we are afraid that when we do get a complaint, we will look at this limited complexity when we, as professionals, do not know exactly what is meant by this limited complexity. And manageable, yes we have as p.a.I also agreed with all of you that those are the appointments with the doctors. We look at our own initial training and experience and, of course, we also look at the patient target group within the institution where we work. It is said: at a time when, for example, there is a difficult or complex situation, it is better for me to consider whether it is manageable, so there is no harm, so that I can also answer to a possible disciplinary college later. That is why I included this in my contribution. How does the Minister look at these signals coming from the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u23	I also think that "manageable" is a subjective concept. I think you can also have whole discussions about the question: what is manageable and what isn't? I think it is most important that there is clarity about it. I agree with Mr El Yassini. We've been experimenting for five years now and monitoring that closely, but that doesn't mean we're gonna make a point here. Everything goes on, and the task redeployment will continue. There are now two new professions. But the discussion on whether or not something needs to be done is also continuing on the issue of professions that are outflowing. That discussion stays. That's why I don't put it in the law. Mrs Keijzer said that the KNMG called for this. We'll take care of all BIG appeals at AMvB. We do the same in this profession, so that it can also change if the practice so requires. Here's what we're gonna do. We're just doing what we did in the experiment, and we're not making anything wider or tighter. We'll do the same in the AMvB. The following question is: what steps can we take to include the midwifery acts as a reserved act for the p.a.What do you say? I'm not planning on doing that for a while. If you're p.a. If you want to be a midwife or study in the midwife field, you'll be a midwife before you do that p.a. head study. A lot of p.a.However, one does not do anything with obstetrics. If we made this mandatory for everyone, they would have to keep it in one way or another. It is, of course, a small group that has this specialization. We can see that in other professions. And then you ask for those two registrations in this case, so you can check with both of them to see if it's actually been kept up to date. It is more common for multi-professional professionals to be registered. I mention, for example, a registration as a psychotherapist and a registration as a gz psychologist. The same applies: that you must remain registered for both professions. Then writing time for the p.a. A number of Members have asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mrs Ellemeet has another urgent question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u25	Excuse me, I was a little late. The Minister says you can have two registrations. So that's how you solve the problem. But now there are physician assistants who can't do those obstetrician acts. That is a problem in practice. What solution does the Minister see for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u26	If they're not registered as obstetricians, I hope they're not doing obstetrics either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u27	Of course. But these are obstetricians who then make the solution to physician assistant. They may be physician assistants, but they can't actually make that combination anymore. I understand that, within the title 'physician assistant', the midwifery cannot be carried out. This leads to problems in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u28	You can if you're registered as an obstetrician. So only the registration as p.a. is insufficient to be able to carry out those actions. And that's a good thing, because a very large part of the p.a.It's never gonna happen. The part that also carries out obstetrics generally consists of people who have been influxed from obstetrics. They must ensure that they keep that registration in order by meeting the requirements to continue to carry out those acts. The requirement that you, as an obstetrician, undergo sufficient training to be able to do those actions is for the protection of the patient. At the same time, you must continue to meet the registration requirements for the p.a. part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u29	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u30	We're doing interruptions in two, in principle, Mrs Ellemeet. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u31	There is a new financing in the making for the ggz. The ggz parties offered it to me themselves. Because dbc's writing is not the most appropriate way to declare in the ggz, they have said: we should be able to do much better; in the ggz we should be paid for our added value. They also said: we should build in much more that we talk to patients; so we should actually have another funding. I said that's fine. They said: we also look very closely at England and we translate that. I've had a presentation of that too. They're busy developing it. They're talking to the NZa about that. There's always a delay in that, I'll just say. With regard to these two running routes, you see that the timer table expires. Then you see that one now as p.a. it is difficult to draw in while working on a new system. I myself find that undesirable, especially since we are dealing with waiting lists. We sometimes have to deal with a screaming shortage of professionals who can provide care. So I think it's very important that we make maximum bets on p.a.The ones who can do that and maybe do it on their own. They should be able to declare that, too. I admit to having another conversation with the NZa and others who are involved in this, to see if there is anything to think of which this can be done earlier, also in the light of the circumstances in the sector. Mrs Keijzer asked if we have any signals.They're gonna get fired. We do not have these signals, but I actually want to use them much wider. We need these people very much. But we have no signals that there are massive p.a.Get kicked out. Some things have been said about p.a.In the first line of ggz and in the care of the elderly. I'm sure you can do better than that. A number of Members of Parliament have asked how we can make people in the sector and outside the sector aware of a p.a. Who even knows what it means? It's just that I happen to have this function now. Otherwise I wouldn't know what a p.a. I certainly wouldn't know what he does and what he doesn't like. There is a very important aspect there. That's what I started with, too, with a nurse specialist really different. You know what a nurse is. This nurse specializes in diabetes, so he can do extra things in the field of diabetes. That makes a lot of sense, even for a patient. That's what the p.a. has to do. also make sense, especially if he has individual patient contact. There is also a path to be set up. I also think that the patient should be clear about what such a new profession is, especially if one can be treated individually by such a new profession. My second commitment is that I, together with the sector itself, will see how we can do this better. The naming has everything to do with it. How can you translate it so that people think: that makes sense, now I know what that person is doing? So this is really something I think there is still work to be done. We have no overview of how many hospitals p.a.We've made agreements about anonymity in the investigation. As a result, an overview of the names of hospitals where concrete agreements have been made on the deployment is not to be given. The same applies to the use of nursing specialists. The research has shown that 85% of nursing specialists and 90% of p.a.Doing self-defensely reserved operations. Has patient safety been secured? Just recording the p.a. in Article 3 and the U.S. Article 14 of the BIG Act really serves patient safety. I've already mentioned disciplinary law. You can't deal with someone who shows sexually transversal behavior right now. We can do that later. You can target someone specifically on the actions he does on his own. The Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act applies. This ensures that patients can rely on good care. The inspection supervises compliance with the BIG and Wkkgz Act. I think this is really a step forward. Can I briefly address the critical questions raised by the Council of State in connection with the report? The Council of State recommends that disciplinary law be allowed to apply even after the expiry of the temporary register. That advice has been taken. Disciplinary law shall continue to apply to acts or omissions at the time of entry in the temporary register. It is therefore not the case that this will expire if the temporary register passes. Then I'll come to the training stations. The annual inflow for the p.a. And the nurse specialist is still rising by 50 a year. The intermediate stage of the 2017/018 academic year is that 650 of the 700 training places are used. We have already made 700 available in recent years. So you see very much the kicking: In 2005 it was 350. That went up stairs to 700. However, these places are not all used. It is therefore not the case that we do not have enough training places. However, as elsewhere in healthcare, we do have problems with internships. In any case, we have removed the financial threshold. We have regular discussions with healthcare providers in relation to various professions. I think that the definitive regulation of the professions in the BIG Act will certainly give an impetus to the influx of training courses, because you will have more certainty. Whether additional measures are needed to promote student entry depends on the space that there is potential in the care for the deployment of p.a.I'm a nurse. I'm a nurse. I'm a nurse. I intend to ask the capacity body to investigate this. When can we expect the first evaluation? We have just experimented and evaluated for five years, so let us start now. Isn't it a risk that the care shatters too much? I think this isn't just linked to the nursing specialist and the p.a. In general, of course, we are getting more and more professions. You can see that the care becomes much more complicated. There are very specialised actions that weren't there before. If you do not change anything, you ask the same profession to be expert in every field, including in the field of new technology or with regard to specializations on a specific part of care. When those things get heavier, it makes sense that you're going to specialize at some point, because you can't keep up with everything. So you get, as we have seen, that a lot of nurses actually do things on which they are not dealt with independently, but under the extended arm construction. I think you should only use that extended arm construction if you really have to, because it knows its limits. The study shows that patient satisfaction is high. The effectiveness is also high. At least at the beginning the doctors had real threshold fears, but the doctors who were questioned in the study also endorse that. They say that they work well together and see real advantage in it. I myself have spoken to several doctors who are with nursing specialists and p.a.Work and be very happy about it. Don't we put too much responsibility on them? They're very well-educated professionals. They can assume this responsibility, on the basis of their studies and on the basis of the work they do later in practice. We see that the quality of care remains high, the provision of care is good and patient satisfaction high. I don't think you should cut it up to cut it up. I really think that you should only go about this if you really think that the practice is no longer in line with the law, something we had before, or that things are happening that are not really in the discipline or the BIG anymore. Plenty of places for basic doctors. What is happening there, of course, is something that concerns me myself, namely that we cannot get basic doctors for certain specialties. There are a lot of specialist training courses where the training places... I have spent my entire ministry almost to the top of the capacity body advice places. You see that a lot of those places... We have had debates here about the health services and the fight against infectious diseases, but there is also a lack of geriatrics in the care of the elderly, for example. You can see we have people on the couch sometimes. But, yeah, we can't all be a cardiologist. We also need these other doctors incredibly. I think that task restructuring is still in its infancy in many specialties, and that you can make that other organization of care, which you see very well in some parts of hospitals, slowly but surely enter the whole care, especially when the cold-water fear is a bit gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u32	I fully agree with the Minister. Cold feet still play a very important role, because the parties still have to get used to this possibility. The Minister said earlier that she wanted to instruct the Capacity Body to investigate how we could better embed this task in training or give it a better place. In a 2016 report of the Capacity Body it is said that better guidance is needed. So it would be a task that lies with politics. The question is: do we need another study now or do we already know what we want and is it necessary that VWS, in consultation with OCW, looks at how we can arrange these training places in a different way in order to get more space for that physician assistant, so that, for example, in the care of the elderly, they can take over some of the outstanding places?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u33	It is not up to the training places, because they are not filled up to the maximum year after year. 650 is already a lot better, because that means that you only miss 50 places. So that's much better. The fact that VWS takes charge of all these vocational training and internships is virtually impossible because people are trained in health care themselves in follow-up studies. What we do, of course, do is send it to the places where we finance it. But if those places don't fill up, you're gonna talk to each other about how that's possible. I did that to the ggz when we agreed on the waiting lists: if I start training more than... they also train people at their own expense. If they go down because I'm climbing, you won't get any more people. That's the kind of consultation you have. Of course, you look at where you need it and where you can send it, but eventually people choose whether they want to train for cardiologist or for a completely different specialisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u34	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u35	What kind of investigation does the Minister want from the Capacity Body?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u36	You asked if the Capacity Body... I browse my papers to read back the answer to your question, because it has been a while ago. These are additional measures to promote student entry. We have training places now, but if they are not completely full, then you could promote the influx. I have therefore indicated that the Capacity Body should carry out an investigation into this. The capacity estimate, so the number of training places we need for the future, let us also look at the Capacity Body. In addition to the numbers they already give me for doctors and specialists, we are also going to ask for numbers for these professions. Is it possible to get a basic registration in the BIG and then a note if there is a specialization? Then you don't get a mess of appeals in the BIG register. The BIG Act only contains registrations of basic professions. Specialties are registered in the specialist register of professional associations. In addition, the legislative proposal proposes that the nurses should be given appropriate powers per specialty. So we only register the basic profession of nursing specialist, and these specialties are then in the occupational registers. Why is the possibility of submitting a disciplinary complaint after the end of an experiment which does not decide on legislation limited to six months? It has been decided, because an experiment can last up to five years. If it doesn't go well, you can stop it after three years or after one year, but it can take up to five years. So you have to keep a room available at all disciplinary colleges, to deal with the complaints for that appeal. If such a profession flows through the Law BIG, that's no problem, because then you keep it. But if you decide after one, two, three or up to five years that the experiment actually failed and that you want to close it, then you're not gonna regulate it because then you're not gonna record it. Then you have to keep one of those rooms open, one of those specialties. We have said that if something lasts five years, it is generally quite good, otherwise it will not last five years. Then we found a six-month transition period in relation to such an experiment. What other professions are eligible for task redeployment? As you yourself have pointed out, the clinical technologist and the bachelor medical aid provider have been in that experimental law since 2014. We don't direct what's left of it. That's gonna happen. Has the service been improved? That was a question from Mrs Agema. Research shows that the health care provider is becoming more efficient and that the quality is good. The right person is in the right place, that's actually just come out. It's not a austerity measure. It is also about customer satisfaction and patient satisfaction is high. The research Task Recast and Cost of Radboud shows a slight decrease in costs within hospitals, while more additional tasks are being carried out. That shows the investigation. We also see from the figures that more and more care is being taken for the same or less money. That's what this contributes to. It's not the only cause. What exactly does it mean that the physician will delegate assistant tasks? He may, like other qualified professionals, commission a contract. Can the Minister confirm that the conditions under which the p.a. can work, remain equal to the conditions during the experiment? Yeah, that's right. I'm not gonna mess with or add anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u37	When tasks are delegated, who are they delegated to? Are these the reserved acts that we have just granted to these two professions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u38	The delegation provision exists for all these professions. That means that you can delegate things you like to someone else, but of course they must be able to do so. You see this very often in general practitioners' practices, where a doctor's assistant does certain actions, for example a swab. But she must have taken a course or done something to make you say: he can do that too. That's the kind of business we're dealing with. A p.a. may delegate tasks of his own. You couldn't have done that before, but you can now. Then, of course, whoever you delegate it to must be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u39	I think it's all getting very unclear for the patient. Who else is helping you? What's that person qualified for? Has he been delegated? I do think that it is a real mess of powers, which are then delegated to third parties. Does the Minister agree with me? As a patient, you don't really know what you're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u40	I agree with Mrs Agema that there are a lot of professionals and that you can sometimes question them. Questions are always important. But you can also see in GP practice that the GP does a number of things simply no longer do so himself, but makes sure that he has people who can do so well and who are trained to do so. A smear at the GP is actually being done there may still be GPs who do it almost never again by the GP himself, but it does happen under his responsibility. The GP must therefore ensure that it goes well and that there are the right conditions to do it. He needs to do the guidance of one of those guys who does a swab. If a swab has been done and there are questions or doubts, you should also be able to contact the GP and you should be able to ask for his advice. The general practitioner must also be able to intervene. For example, he has to do something about it or look at something extra when asked by the doctor's assistant. That's how you're supposed to see it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u41	What if you don't want that as a patient at all, if you want the doctor to do that swab? Then what do you start as a patient?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u42	I think you can ask the GP if he wants to do it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u43	And when he says, "I don't do that anymore"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u44	Yeah, well, you should have a good talk with your GP. Look, the GP's trying to reduce his workload a little bit by hiring people who take over certain tasks. I must also say that most patients are very happy with this, because they are happy that the doctor's assistant, who has more time and more rest, is doing such a job. If you want the GP to do it, you can of course just ask the GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u45	I think it's all getting really complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mrs. Agema, we're doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr President, this is my only interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u48	That's why you were allowed four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u49	I'll turn the mic off right away. Then that's how we're gonna do it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u50	Well, very briefly. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u51	I think it's all getting really complicated anyway. The Capacity Body calculates each time exactly how many specialists need to be trained. That's a very precise fit. Actually, we can see that doctors are eventually being asked over. So we need people who can perform delegated tasks. If you don't really want that as a patient, you're gonna have to put your GP back on the line. It's all getting pretty complicated. In the end, I think the patient should just have clarity. The Minister says that the Capacity Body exactly adjusts the number of training places. Don't you think there's a flaw in that? All the more so because we pay rates for the general practitioners and also for the medical specialists who are quite high. Just now the Minister was asked whether this task redeployment would also result in tariff redeployment, and there was no clear answer to that question either. My question is therefore whether it is not all becoming very unclear for the patient and for all of us as taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u52	In hospitals, we don't actually work with tariffs that the government sets. We don't set tariffs. This is a negotiation between the insurance company and the hospital, and it now has one bill. There is one integral account, for both facilities and the building, the light and the equipment as well as for the medical specialist. That's just what this professional is in there. In the experiment we looked at what happened and we see that more happens for the same money. There's even a slight drop. So it's getting a little cheaper and more is happening, just looking at this experiment purely. That's how we can find out about this. We really looked at that specifically. It is not explicitly intended to be looked at and said: okay, we ask doctors over, so we are now going to take tasks from doctors and let others do them. This really came about because we think these people can do these tasks better than the doctors. Doctors are trained to solve complex problems and do complex treatments. These are the more routine treatments, where eventually such a physician assistant or nursing specialist gets better at. So it's about putting the best caregiver in the right place. Moreover, care has always been delegated. It has always been the case that there are tasks that are said to be better done by someone else. Then a doctor delegates it, but he is responsible for it. If a doctor's assistant does something for the GP, the GP is responsible. Here we arrange for the nurse specialist himself to be responsible. If anything goes wrong, she'll have to answer to the D.A.'s office. You can't ask the doctor's assistant for the D.A.'s office. If anything goes wrong with the doctor's assistant, the GP's gonna go in front of the D.J. I think we also need this because care is just getting much more complex because we can do more and more. You can't expect everyone to be good at everything. Have we matched the AMvB with the KNMG? I didn't do that because the AMvB content is exactly the same as the temporary AMvB. After all, some people have said: shouldn't you broaden it? I told them, "Well, I don't." Some people have said: shouldn't you narrow it down? I also said to them: I do not. We're doing exactly what was in that temporary AMvB. And that temporary AMvB is tuned with the KNMG. But we're not going to change. I have already said and promised that we are really going to look at how we can make the caregiver more recognizable for the patient, so that the patient also knows who is on his bed. In addition, it is important that a patient can search these professionals in advance in a BIG register by the name and number of a professional. I think that's very important. That song is also important and we want to do much more. If something went wrong, you should be able to search by number. Who helped me anyway? Anyway, I will pay explicit attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u53	I have a brief question and would like to come back to the BIG register and to look up the p.a. or in this case the midwife. As a nurse now at the same time p.a. Is clinical obstetrician, do they both get the same BIG number? Are they looking the same way? Or do they have more or less different accounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u54	No, there are two accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u55	That means that if, for example, a person under the p.a. makes a mistake, and I look that person up as an obstetrician, I can overlook it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u56	Well, you should see her or him by number. We're supposed to go through that much more. If you're looking by number, you can just see it. Someone's got a number. As far as I'm concerned, that's just going to be on the business card and everything, and that song is communicated everywhere. Then you can always find someone and no longer have the confusion of for example two specialists Janssen, two specialists with the same name. Then you can look it up by number. So if you have a number, you always have the right number.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u57	Finally, Mr El Yassini, a question for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes, for clarification, Mr. Chairman. So that means that if I'm an obstetrician and at the same time a p.a. Clinical obstetrics, I have the same number?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u59	No, then there are two numbers. I understand it would be best if there were one song in such a case. But since we know those two separate systems in the registry, you have two numbers. I think it's okay to see if there's any other way. I really have no idea if that's possible. But I'll have that checked out and put that back to you. It has been asked whether the bachelor's medical aid provider is also included in the register and what the costs are. During the experiment the b.m.h. be entered in the temporary register. The cost is €85. Mrs Keijzer asked me this question. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you very much. I have to say that p.a. is an improvement. I had to take care of your own p.a. think, who does quite another job after all. I think we'll figure it out. Mrs Ellemeet has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u61	I have one more suggestion: medical assistant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u62	Let's see what the minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u63	Let's take that. Let's check it out. I made a number of commitments. I therefore think it would be a good thing if I promised to send a letter to the Chamber about what I promised. Then I'll take the naming with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u64	We're curious! I'm looking at the MPs to see if there's a need for a second term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-10.u65	I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday. I wish you all a good and safe journey home.
