ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Financial Dagblad exposed the ICT problems of the Land Registry. It speaks, among other things, of lingering computer problems, vulnerable technical infrastructure, unacceptable major security issues, a system that is so leaky that unauthorized people can enter, unprotected lying around flash drives and the use of Windows 2003. Internal records show that the Kadaster has been facing major problems for a number of years. Deloitte already warned in 2012 and KPMG did so in 2013 and 2014, just like the management IT of the Kadaster itself did in 2014. The Land Registry is a vital database that every property owner in this country is in. It's the basis for safe real estate transactions. Not only the Kadaster has structural ICT problems. Last week the voting software was also unsafe, last week the opinions of the Voicewijzer were on the street, last week the Tax Office was struggling with major ICT problems, municipal websites were found to be structurally unsafe recently and the ministers of this cabinet also mailed with their unsafe private addresses. In many places, the government does not have its ICT in order. That is why I have a few questions for the cabinet. Why does the Cabinet let this happen over and over again, week in, week out? Why is this problem, which we are literally confronted with every week, not being taken seriously? Why does the cabinet always react afterwards? And, most importantly, why does the cabinet do that also week in, week out, always like nothing's going on? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven has asked me a lot of questions. Especially on areas of fellow ministers, but also on my own territory: the Land Registry. I just want to leave it at that, because I think it is good to deal specifically with this case. Why does the Cabinet let this week in, week out happen? I'm just gonna focus on the land register. As far as the Kadaster is concerned, we are well aware of what we are good at and where there are still challenges. The Land Registry secures itself at some sort of general empire level. That's where it'll do. However, it also wants to secure itself at a higher level, and that is not enough in all respects. That's why we asked parties to look at that, to review us on that. Those reviews are there, also on points that were found in the organisation itself. In fact, therefore, a critical report has been requested on the points that we do not consider to be adequate. That's what we got. I am happy that Mr Verhoeven is asking me about this, but not that nothing happens to it. It's just part of the action we're doing in that area. It is discussed twice a week and measures are being taken. That's one. Two is the question of whether there is such insecurity that, for example, personal data is displayed. You can read that in the underlying report. Of course, you can make that something very exciting and say that it's all a big mess. It says, for example, that due to insufficient control, there is a risk of continuity and unauthorized access, leading to temporary no availability of digital service extension and inaccuracies and incompleteness of data. So what is it about, for example? That's that the website is not available. Therefore, it is not a question of making personal data transparent, because there are separate systems to prevent it from happening. Is it okay that that website isn't available? No, that's bad, too. We're working on that. We ourselves see where the gaps are and we are constantly working on them. Mr Verhoeven asks why we are not doing anything, but we are constantly working on it. Why does the cabinet only react afterwards? It doesn't, because it's still working on it. It's a continuous process. Following these new reports, too, the Land Registry will report on progress, as it reports to me every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister now pretends to be something exciting, but that is not what the government organisations are doing, which are constantly, week in, week out, their ICT organisation. The minister says they're working on it. That's what the Home Secretary said to me last week when we were talking about voting software. This happens every time. We pretend it's all under control and like it's all okay. The Minister who is called upon only wants to talk about his specific part of the total ICT organisation, because he or she is responsible for this. That happened last week with the Minister of the Interior when we were talking about voting software. It was said very laconically at the time: nothing is going on. But then there was a letter, showing that there was something going on. The same thing happened last week with Secretary of State Wiebes of Finance. He too reacted laconically and limited himself to the problems with the Tax Administration. He said it wasn't so bad. I find it regrettable that every ruler is especially busy sweeping his own street by pretending that nothing is going on. Maybe that's because we're a little bit at the end of this cabinet period; I don't know. But this obviously does not solve the bigger problem. There's a bigger problem, though. I can draw no conclusion other than that this cabinet simply fails with its ICT policy and security. It is a structural failure in this area. This persistent problem requires a thorough approach. That's what we've been warning about all along. We can no longer ignore this. The ICT systems of all vital public services need to be vetted. I wouldn't ask for that if this was the first time. But it happens week in, week out. It's time for emergency surgery. You could call it an emergency killer, but something has to be done now. Is the Minister prepared to propose to the Council of Ministers on Friday to ask BIT, the ICT Examination Office, to review all the ICT systems of the vital public services? I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr Verhoeven made a whole speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	... ending in one question about BIT. I would like to raise a few points from his speech, because there are some accusations being made here. We are pretending that every minister does not want to look at the problem, but that is certainly not true. We are all concerned about the major ICT challenges for the future. I am speaking on my own behalf now, but I also hear that from colleagues. It is not for nothing that BIT has been set in the past and is also now looking at our new challenges. If I want to convert the Environment Act into digital services, I'll go to the BIT for that. This also applies to other major new projects and to existing infrastructure. Can we do anything we want? Are we up-to-date everywhere as we'd like? No, that includes money, human power and FTE. Does this mean we don't look back and see if we don't do anything about it? No, definitely not. I'd like to take that care away. I do not know how many colleagues are working on it, but despite the fact that we are leaving soon, we are also looking forward. We give our successors just to do some extras on that point. Would you like me to ask the cabinet about this? If Mr Verhoeven really wants an integrated approach, there is a minister for that. In addition to the fact that each minister is individually responsible for IT, we also have a minister whose responsibility covers the entire digital system of the government, namely the Minister of BZK. Mr Verhoeven can put his question to him. He's even behind me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	I'm being referred to another window. It happens to the government all the time. The Minister's answer may be well-intentioned, but it is a missed opportunity. A ruler now puts his head in the sand again and shows no sense of urgency, which would be justified at the moment. The government invests too little in ICT, continuously stacks all kinds of systems, gives no openness and shows sloppy management. If the cabinet is not going to address this problem, but is going to pass it on, I really have no more questions for this minister. I hope that another cabinet will make cybersecurity a top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	Despite the fact that Mr Verhoeven did not have any questions, it is precisely the cabinet that pays attention to it for the first time, including by individual ministers. On the basis of an individual case, which we are not going to go into now, the entire ICT system of the government is being addressed if we do not want to do anything about it. I'm throwing that far from me. In my opinion, it looks good on our retina and will also apply to the successors in the future. The challenge will only get bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have a substantive question, addressed to the Land Registry. The story showed a little bit that notaries at the moment are not sure about that at least should be researched to see whether the available data is the right data. How do they find out they're not manipulated data? Is there a way to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	That's an important question. It was insinuated that the information would not always be reliable. Despite the fact that there are 11,000 attacks a month on the Cadaster, none of the attacks have resulted in an infringement or a violation of the Cadaster's systems. The actual land register data cannot be changed from outside either, because the infrastructure has separate systems. Information provision and the mutation of data are separate. There are also several safeguards. Changes must be authorised. In addition, every day all mutations are checked again. So there's 100% control. According to the Land Registry, it can therefore be assumed that the land register data is correct. I think that is a very important message to bring out. After all, this is where there is unrest. It is a fact that the systems can be improved and modified and that failure can occur, but it is not the case that this concerns the reliability of the data. We will always have to work to ensure that this is the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you.
