ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as long as he has not already introduced himself to you this morning. I now give the floor to Mr Taverne, on behalf of the VVD Group, to speak, by way of derogation from the proposed order of speakers, but in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you vote for one party in elections, but your vote ends up with another party, that is a form of political tying. With the possibility of establishing list connections, you can vote for a party you did not vote for. In 1923, therefore, the list link was prohibited by law as a voter deception. Almost a century later, the establishment of a list link in a sense is still that. The original aim of re-establishing list links in 1973 was to promote the association of political groups. A list connection could be helpful in that process. Examples are the creation of the Christian-Democratic Appèl and the Christian Union, but also of GroenLinks. In the beginning, however, the list of links initially resulted in mergers of political groups, now there is no longer any question of such links. Getting a better position in the distribution of residual seats now seems to be the only reason to combine lists. Let me be clear: the VVD Group has no objection to cooperation, including for elections. However, my group does object to the fact that parties who announce cooperation receive a douche bag for this, but only want to be regarded as one party for the allocation of residual seats. That is why, together with Mr Schouw and Mr Van Raak at the time, I tabled a motion in 2014, which was adopted with broad support by this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	The SGP is early today. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	Here are some strange words. Mr Taverne spoke about a douche bag and about electoral deception at a list link. But isn't it just stated on the ballot that there's a list link to another list? How can Mr Taverne mean that as a voter deception? I find this a curious interpretation of this concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have taken over the concept of "douceurtje" from my predecessor, fore-, fore-, predecessor Polak, VVD-Second Member of Parliament at the 1923 debate. That seemed to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	The VVD didn't exist at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	One at a time. You're welcome to step in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	This is historically incorrect, and this reflects the carelessness with which Mr Taverne enters the debate. The VVD didn't even exist in 1923.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	That's right. It was Liberal MP Polak. But seriously. It is true that the list link is announced on the ballot, but at the same time it remains that even with that announcement, as a voter, you do not know exactly where your vote ends up. That's an undesirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	Surely Mr Taverne will agree with me that voters voting on a list that has entered into a list link include in their consideration that such a list link has been established? That may be an incentive for the electorate to vote on that list, or perhaps the electorate will not vote on that list. Isn't that just part of the balance that the voter himself makes? Why does Mr Taverne now want to tell the electorate that he should not take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	You can turn it around. You can also argue that it restricts the voter in a way. As a voter, you may want to vote for one party, but not another. If two parties have entered into a list link, that limits your choice. It can lead you to vote for that combination for a long time because the party of your preference is in it. However, if you don't want your vote to end up with the other party in that list link, you don't have the choice not to. It therefore limits the choice of the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	You also have a second term, Mr Bishop, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	Let me make a brief comment. I think this is a gross understatement of the electorate. A voter is a mature person who weighs up and involves the existing list link. A voter also has the room to vote for a party that has not entered into a list link. I actually think this is a reduction of the voter. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I don't think we should approach it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	But the voter does not have the choice to vote for one party that is part of a list link without running the risk of his vote being placed in the list link with the other party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Taverne suggests that if this bill is adopted, it will never again prevent a vote on, for example, the Christian Union from ultimately benefiting the VVD. Is that what he's saying now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	I just need to make sure I understand the question. If list connections are no longer possible, the voter no longer automatically runs the risk that his vote on Party A will end up with Party B from the list combination. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	That wasn't exactly my question. My question is that there are still residual seats, even if this bill is passed. In fact, if this bill is adopted, there is a greater chance that this residual seat will reach the VVD, because larger parties will gain weight in this system; let me put it this way. In other words, if I vote for my own party, there is a greater chance that the rest seat will go to the VVD. Then a system where you know that your voice at least ends up in a certain direction, for example in the case of a left-wing party. After all, I don't know which block my rest seat ends up in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Schouten is touching on a very important point here, because the practice has now become that list connections are established with a view to a more favourable starting position in the distribution of residual seats. That has never been the starting point or the purpose of list connections. In short, the instrument lists connections work out in practice to some extent in the residual seat distribution. It was never meant for that. There is therefore an abuse of an instrument. Then it is right to make that instrument impossible. There is no longer any cooperation on the basis of list links. Then it doesn't matter to use the remedy but to use it for the residual seat distribution because it is beneficial. Those two cases need to be broken up. That is not happening now, but it is high time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Taverne is now moving in a completely different direction. He's not really answering my question. My question was: is it perhaps not fairer if the voter knows in advance how likely it is that the seat of the remaining seat will end up in a certain corner if his voice counts for a particular party? Mr Taverne pointed out that it is true that a vote on the Christian Union could eventually reach the VVD, while his whole speech at first was based on the idea that this would not happen. However, that still exists. In fact, this bill will only increase that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	But then we should have a debate on the system of residual seat distribution. That's another subject. This is, in principle, separate from list connections. I do not deny that it has an effect on that in practice, but it is not intended for it. Thus, it is an improper use of the tool of list connections to influence the residual distribution. That is a mixture of two subjects which should not be mixed. That is why it is more purer to abandon this instrument now that the use of list connections for the purpose of combining parties has become obsolete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	I hesitate for a moment, Mr Bishop. Mr Taverne spoke a minute and a half. He has prepared a speech in which I think he will first explain a number of things. So why don't we wait until he's given his arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	I recognize that hesitation; I had it too, because I'm not used to interrupting frequently at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	It's about ourselves now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	Of course, but I have overcome my hesitation, because there is once again a certain historical error.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Taverne said that a list link was never meant to be a mechanism for the distribution of seats. The Opinion of the Election Board at the end of the 1960s stated quite literally that half of the members of the Election Board considered that a list link "should not be regarded as merely a bonus or incentive for such cooperation, but could also produce a happy correction in itself to the existing system of granting residual seats'. In this way, it was possible to avoid the possibility of residual votes being cast by parties which would not otherwise have been elected. I would therefore have liked to be more careful on this point. My question to Mr Taverne is whether, having heard this, he is prepared to reconsider his considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	No, I'm not prepared to. By the way, I agree with what I said earlier. The Election Council states that this is a consequence, not the purpose. I do not deny that a list connection has an effect on the residual seat distribution, but that was never the intention. I must say that I am surprised by the resistance of the SGP to making list connections impossible. At the time of the re-establishment of list links in 1973, the SGP voted against it both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. I don't understand how to rhyme with that. I know the SGP as a historically consistent party, which is now apparently taking a different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Taverne denies that this has been an objective, but the quote makes it quite clear that, in the view of half the members of the Elections Council, this could "make a happy correction in itself." That is a different matter from the fact that this was not the intention but merely a consequence of it. On the second point, the SGP is indeed consistent. A decision has already been taken in the 1970s and it is satisfactory. Then we are prepared to say: okay, then we will continue on that course. I do not therefore see this contradiction with the SGP's vote in 1973 as a problem. I do not expect Mr Taverne to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	As far as the latter is concerned, I do believe that there is a contradiction in terms of positions when a group opposes a proposal at one point and is in favour of it later. That may have very good reasons, but I can see that. On the other point: the last time I checked, the Election Council was not part of the legislator. The Election Board is a very important and important body and I think we are all taking the opinions here in the Chamber extremely seriously, but it is the view of the Election Board that the elaboration of lists is as Mr Bishop has just quoted. I am not denying that either, but the fact that the Election Board finds something happy side-effects does not say very much about the legislator's intention in reintroducing list connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Terverne spoke about the intention of the legislator in 1973. That's how he sketches the image of a bunch of lameheads. He sketched the picture that cooperation was the goal but that suddenly something came after it, namely the residual seat distribution. If you read parliamentary history correctly, is it not the case that the discussion in 1973 was about the fact that the residual seat distribution is some kind of incentive to work together by establishing a list link? So it would not be a kind of bycatch at all, but then we would have to recognise that it was indeed the intention of the 1973 legislator to make this possible and thus also to promote that residual seat distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	I can follow that reasoning, if it is not that the main objective of establishing list connections, i.e. bringing parties together, has not been achieved since GroenLinks. If you create a new, larger batch via list connections, the current residual seat distribution system is more likely to give that new party a seat earlier. I would like to say once again that this is an additional effect and that this has not been the purpose of offering the possibility of establishing list connections. I note that we are now in a situation where it is only about putting your party in a better position in the residual seat division, without having the intention to go together as parties for the purpose of forming something new. This means that the instrument is no longer used for the purpose. I think it would be appropriate for us to change the law or modernise it. That's what we do with other laws. In this case, the timing of the law involves making it impossible to enter into list links.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	There are two different things. The first thing is about the actual consequences, namely that parties want to work together. Then it concerns the possibility, the intention and the choice of the parties themselves. The second concerns the incentive or the premium that it provides, i.e. the improvement of the residual seat distribution by means of list links. How can you say it's a failed cause because it doesn't happen? For example, the SGP and the Christian Union have not yet become one party. Then you better say that the possibilities for the VVD and the PVV to enter into a list connection should be looked at, for example, in order to arrive at a merger. All freedom, I'd think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	This reminds me of the English phrase "have your cake and eat it too." At present, only the premium seems to be cashed, which is also so without realising what the premium is on, namely the eventual merging of parties. It is good that the system now allows: you get the premium without showing the behavior for which the premium is intended. If that is the case, I say again that the time has come to modernise the law. After all, it now comes down to eating both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Taverne continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	I mentioned the motion adopted by the Chamber in 2014 and the proposal before us by the Minister of the Interior, which is the result of that. No one will be surprised that this bill can count on the support of my group. Unfortunately, this proposal will have no effect on the elections that will take place on 15 March. It has been offered to this Chamber too late. However, it is very important to move forward now, so that we are at least on time for the municipal elections in 2018. This law will certainly have an influence on that. I ask the Minister about this. Should this proposal reach a majority here next week, can it be well before the summer recess by the First Chamber? What is the Minister's assessment of this? Is the Minister prepared to make every effort to ensure that the proposal can enter into force before the summer? On behalf of the VVD Group, I have a few brief questions about the proposal before us to the Minister. I start with the question whether the Minister shares the opinion of the VVD Group that list connections are completely separate from the residual seat distribution system. Can the Minister explain once again why he has chosen to maintain the current residual seat distribution? Finally, following on from my predecessor in 1973, Mrs Kappeyne of the Coppello, I say: 'The possibility of establishing list connections is undesirable to the Kieswet'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u36	I see Mrs Schouten running forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u37	One final question: does Mr Taverne recognise that this bill is in favour of the major parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u38	I suspect that Mrs Schouten's question focuses on the residual seat distribution system. It is not for nothing that I asked the Minister whether he shares the opinion of the VVD Group that the system of list connections is essentially not directly related to the residual seat distribution system we have chosen. There are also other models imaginable. Hence my question as to why the Minister did not immediately make another proposal for the distribution of seats. Although in practice it has an effect, I have argued earlier, the system of residual seat distribution is in principle independent of the legal possibility of establishing list connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u39	That is not entirely an answer to the question, Mrs Schouten is going to say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's a lot of words not to answer my question. I'll repeat it, because I can't get an answer. Does Mr Taverne recognise that this amendment is in favour of the major parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u41	It would be silly to repeat my answer, but I would like to answer Mrs Schouten's question exactly. Once again, strictly speaking, the instrument of residual seat distribution is independent of the choice we have made for the way we distribute residual seats. In principle, the list system has nothing to do with the residual seat distribution system. I do recognise that it has an effect in practice. That is why now only list connections are being established with a view to the distribution of seats. If Mrs Schouten wants a different system of residual seat distribution, she should put forward a proposal for that. This is, in principle, separate from the possibility of listing links.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'm not getting very far. One more question about Mr Bishop's amendment, which is now before us. I have read Mr Taverne's motion carefully. It states that the majority of the votes should be taken by the party which also has the largest share left. I can't quote it literally right now, because I don't have the motion at hand. That is not the case in this case. Our current system has a very complex calculation for that, but it is not true that the party that has the most seats will also have the remaining seats. If Mr Taverne is so in favour of a fairer system, then I assume he will vote in favour of Mr Bishop's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u43	I will discuss in my group the appreciation of Mr Bishop's amendment. We shall do so before the vote next week. So I am not going to go into the substance of Mr Bishop's amendment. We are now discussing the Minister's proposal. We have weighed that and we are in favour of it. In any case, we shall vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. List connections. Almost all parties make use of it. Let me give you a few examples. It happens locally, provincially and nationwidely. During the municipal elections in Amsterdam in 2014, VVD and D66 established a list link. Last week the SP reported that a left-wing block should be formed with the Labour Party and GroenLinks. Then you're talking about a list connection. Indeed, the Christian Union and the SGP are again a block in the election for the Second Chamber, Deo volente, 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u45	The SP has regularly participated in list connections in the past, but this year it has no list connection with PvdA and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's right. There was only a call to form a block, but perhaps this is not meant to be a list connection. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then why doesn't the SGP just merge with the Christian Union? These parties resemble each other like two drops of water: pro Islamization, pro mass immigration, pro development aid. Then don't be so difficult with such a weird list connection and look into each other's eyes and just merge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you for this heartfelt advice. I would like to give you an opinion on this: take a look at last night's broadcast of The Table of Tijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u49	We are going back to the subject: the list link. Proceed, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u50	The practice shows that list connections are very common in the Netherlands and that will be the case again in the upcoming Chamber elections. Every citizen in the Netherlands sees above the electoral list which parties work together and have entered into a list link. That is open and transparent. It is part of the citizen's consideration of his voting behaviour. This bill abolishes the possibility of list connections and that is actually the most concrete thing to say about this bill. In fact, I hardly see any substantive arguments for abolishing the list link in this legislative proposal. The only argument is that a Taverne motion has been adopted calling for this from the government. My first question to the Minister is therefore: can the Minister explain what the substantive arguments are for making this proposal? What is the major social or political issue, or what is the problem with this bill? Or maybe we're creating a new problem? The Minister stated that the proposal was intended to promote the pooling of spirit-related groups in the early 1970s. According to the Minister, this is no longer relevant, but also now, by means of a list link, the parties show that there is a certain degree of kinship and that they grant each other the remaining votes. The SGP considers that it is not logical to abolish the list link if it is still widely used in practice at various levels. It is precisely now that many people complain about a large number of parties in the Chamber that it is historic that this would be all the more reason to encourage bundling rather than frustrate. List connection can also be seen as a bundle of forces. Is the list link system in favour of smaller parties and is it therefore in favour of larger parties? The fact is that especially smaller parties make a list connection because of the negative effect of the current residual seat distribution system. In the opinion of the Election Board and in line with that of the Minister, it is stated that the list link is never meant to correct the residual seat distribution system, but that is only part of the story. I have just made it clear from the interruption that in the considerations of the Election Council it was expressly involved that half of the Members felt that it could in itself make a happy correction to the existing system of granting residual seats. These considerations were also introduced into the debate in the Chamber by then Minister Beernink. Thus, they are part of the entire legal history. There's not a word of Spanish. The Council of State said the same in similar words a few years ago. As there is in practice a link between the residual seat distribution system and the possibility of establishing a list link, it is necessary to see this legislative proposal in conjunction with the residual seat distribution system. In the Netherlands, we know for almost all elections, except for the election of the small municipal councils, the system of the highest average. This system ensures that large parties hold a residual seat much faster than small parties. Those are complicated calculations. I've always explained it to my students with joy, but they constantly asked me why the rest seat doesn't go to the party that has the most votes left. Well, I'd have my mouth full of teeth. Of course, I have always defended the Tickets Act and the Constitution, and you all know that, but this was not really explained properly. Especially when it is decided to abolish the list link, it would be a good idea to improve the distribution of the remaining seats. The system of largest surpluses is much simpler and it allows the party a residual seat that has the most votes, so it is furthest on its way to a new seat. This is a fair and logical approach, which can at the same time offset the negative consequences of eliminating list connections. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect. It is striking that the Election Council and the government initially only looked at the consequences of abolishing list connections for the Lower House. In this way it is ignored that the abolition of list links has at least as many consequences for the elections of municipal councils with more than 19 seats, or for the provinces and the European Parliament. It is a good thing that the answer came to that, but it is a pity that this has not been the case from the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u51	I see that Mr Taverne would like to ask or comment on your previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a quote that the Liberal, the previous Member of Parliament, used Mr Polak, albeit not in a debate in 1923, but in 1973. Mr Bishop rightly pointed that out to me in an interruption during my term. Following that debate, list connections were re-established. Mr Bisschop has just commented on the residual seat distribution system. I take it from his words that he thinks that's a good system. He defended that and does not really understand why this should now be allowed, if the list links are no longer possible. Can I draw Mr Bishop's attention to a contribution by Mr Abma, during the same debate in the House of Representatives in 1973, on the same system of residual seat distribution that Mr Bishop is now very much in favour of? He said: it is not very acceptable to me, after all sorts of figures and cocksucking to speak of a blessing. So he couldn't say his blessing on that system. That brings me to the question of how it is possible that Mr Bishop is now bringing out the blessings of that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u53	So that we understand each other correctly: I am critical of the system of residual seat allocation through the largest average. It would be easier to allocate residual seats according to the system of largest surpluses, because this will prevent you from giving large parties the advantage of..... the power of the large number. I mean, that's not annoying, but that's the arithmetic effect. I feel like my predecessor and I are on the same page here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u54	I would like to start a historical discourse with Mr Bishop on this at another time. In any case, I would like to point out that Mr Bisschop is mainly concerned with the distribution of seats; at least, he places a serious emphasis on this. In itself, this would allow for a consistent continuation of the SGP line with regard to list connections, to which I referred. His predecessor, Mr Abma, said about this, and I quote: 'All in all, we are not upset by this draft law'. That is why this was re-introduced. Would it be possible for the SGP to remain consistent in its position on the possibility of list connections and to express its views on the residual seat distribution in its own proposal, perhaps separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u55	As I have just argued, you can't really separate one from the other. Precisely because list connections and residual seats are interrelated, we have tabled an amendment on this very point, which at least compensates for the negative effect of banning list connections by a fair, very transparent allocation of residual seats. I think that is the consistent line we continue to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u56	I get that. No one will deny that both subjects are related. However, they can be considered separately. It is indeed possible to make a separate proposal for a residual seat distribution system, independently of the abolition of the possibility of list connections. I'd say that's pure. I also think that this is more appropriate to the pure views that the SGP had clearly in the past on list connections. This would help me to better understand and interpret the changed views, which are at odds with the historic line of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u57	I understand that it would help Mr Taverne to process this observation. That'd be great. This is about an amendment to the Tickets Act. It concerns two coherent aspects, and it seems obvious to us to deal with them at the same time. That is why we have brought this in with boldness. I would point out that the possibility of list connections is also given high importance at local level. Then I come to a particular point concerning the First Chamber elections. A number of years ago, the possibility of a list link for the First Chamber was abolished. There was also a very specific discussion on the link between the state elections and the First Chamber elections. The Election Council stated in the 1980s: "In the preliminary draft for the overall revision of the Election Act, the Election Council recognises that the handling of the system of the largest averages in the elections of the First Chamber may entail a "double disadvantage" of the small parties. However, the Election Board points out that these parties may reduce this effect by establishing a list link. The conclusion of the foregoing is that the small parties can sufficiently neutralize the double disadvantage they suffer from the system of the largest averages by establishing list connections." So this is what the Election Council said in the 1980s when dealing with the Election Act. The Election Council therefore also made an explicit connection between the two themes. In concrete terms, therefore, if the list links are abolished during the state elections, this means that the smaller parties suffer double disadvantages in the elections to the First Chamber. Firstly, they are less likely to have a residual seat in the States. Secondly, they also suffer from the same disadvantage in the First Chamber. In answering our questions in the report, the government does not respond to this opinion of the Election Council. We are pleased to receive a substantive response to this. Does the government share our view that, for this reason, at least in the state elections, there should be a list of links? Even if you think that a list link is undesirable, you should at least have the willingness to prevent this bill from having a double disadvantage for smaller parties. It will be clear that the SGP considers the abolition of list connections unnecessary and undesirable. We are curious about the Minister's response to our questions. All in all, to quote an already quoted predecessor, this draft law cannot bear our blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u58	I have a brief question about the repeated reference to the Election Board, which would be so incredibly in favour of the beneficial effect of the list link system. Is Mr Bishop aware that since 1989 the Election Council has been strongly opposed to list connections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes. On this very point, I would like to call for greater consistency at the Election Council. It's true, of course. Nor have I portrayed the Election Board as a warm and glowing supporter of these matters, but as an institution that is aware of the coherence of matters and their adverse effects. In this respect, the Election Council has made a very balanced contribution, although today the emphasis is more on the line of "drawing off that bite."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u60	I do not rule out the fact that this is the last time I will be performing in plenary unless there are still unexpected debates. Over the past six years in this Chamber, the SGP has always inspired me to maintain a consistent line, as the SGP itself does on all subjects. I would be extremely sorry if I were left in total confusion in this last debate because the SGP is constantly changing its views. Mr Bishop has just said that he would like the Election Board to be more consistent because it changed its view between 1966 and 1989 on the system of list connections and their effects, but Mr Bishop is not consistent at all, as I said earlier. So how can it be that Mr Bishop calls on the Election Council to be more consistent in maintaining a position favourable to the SGP, but Mr Bishop clearly does not consider consistency in his own party's position to be important anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u61	I would be extremely sorry if my input would leave Mr Tavern in awe and I would like to do everything in my power to prevent this from happening, as well as any pastorate companies from this place. The SGP line is fairly consistent. I understand it's confusing. At the time of its introduction, the SGP expressed itself critically. It was then introduced and functioning. Then it's consistent to say that you have to persevere and persevere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u62	I have the impression that we are repeating ourselves a little bit. I'm looking at the clock, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u63	I hope this has given Mr Taverne sufficient balm to his soul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u64	And as a small frivolity: I have heard Reverend Abma speak many times in the previous room and he would never have used the words "draw off that bite." I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u65	I don't know if the chairman's been following the news lately. In a great country, far from here, on the other side of the ocean, a president has been elected. A lady and a gentleman participated in those elections. That lady received the most votes, almost three million more votes than that gentleman, and yet he has become Mr President. Did the Minister know about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u66	I got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u67	I ask whether the Minister knew this, what he thinks of it and whether the American ambassador has already been summoned. I believe that a electoral system should do one thing: translate the vote of the people into a president or parliament as best as possible. It doesn't happen in America. There they have a strange, difficult, complicated system with electors. Nor is it happening in other countries around us. There's your electoral threshold. I also found it remarkable, for example, to read in the CDA's election programme and the VVD's programme that they want to introduce an electoral threshold. Very remarkable. In my view, you simply have the task of ensuring a electoral system that translates the votes, the intentions of the electorate into parliament as best as possible. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. This is not always possible in the Netherlands either. We have a fairly good electoral system, but it doesn't always work. I refer, for example, to the May 2014 European Parliament elections. There were a number of remarkable facts. The SP received more votes than the Labour Party but still the Labour Party received more seats than the SP. That can never be the intention of such a electoral system. D66 got more votes than the CDA and yet the CDA got more seats than D66. The voters didn't mean it like that. And that has to do with the system of list connections. Before I joined the House of Representatives I was a member of the First Chamber and there I saw how list connections can really work very remarkably. That's how it went. After the members of the Provincial States had been elected, the members of the States then elected the members of the Upper House. The elections had already been held and the relations had already been established and then all the senators, ladies and gentlemen, the state-law conscience of our country, were going to calculate very precisely with which list links they might or might not have an extra seat. That was actually an embarrassing situation. I am very pleased that the First Chamber abolished that in 2010. At the end of 2014, Mr Taverne, together with Mr Schouw and myself, tabled a motion to abolish list connections for the Lower House elections. I regret that there is no spokesperson for D66 today, because that party was one of the initiators. I am extremely pleased that the Minister has now tabled this bill, although it has taken some time. The SP believes that the electoral system, the electoral system, should be as simple as possible and translate people's votes into seats as possible, so that Parliament can reflect people's choices as well as possible. There are no thresholds and no list connections, in our view. All the support and thanks for this bill. We received the list links in 1917, with the introduction of proportional representation. That took six years, until 1923. Then they were abolished until 1973 and since then they exist again. So we've had them for 50 years and we haven't had them for 50 years. Originally they were meant to promote mergers of parties, but I don't think you need list connections for that. Any group in this Chamber can merge with any other group at any time. In reality, we see that this is not happening and that there are more divisions and divisions. It is therefore a good thing that the list links should be abolished. We still have another problem, as Mr Bishop rightly pointed out: the allocation of residual seats. I assume that the electoral system should be as simple as possible and translate people's votes into parliament as possible. I think Mr Bishop is right: the current system of allocating residual seats through the largest average can benefit large parties. It proposes to abandon this system and to move towards the system of the largest surpluses. I am not opposed to that. I think it is a sympathetic proposal and it also makes sense. My problem, however, is that it is not necessarily related to the other; I agree with Mr Taverne. The discussion on list connections, which has now been the subject of a legislative proposal, is not necessarily about residual seats. Mr Bishop is trying to ride this through an amendment to the law. I can understand that, but I don't think it's very happy. I would have preferred it to have been a separate legislative process. Why did the Minister decide not to? Why has there not been a separate legislative proposal for the remaining seats, or why has this point not been more explicitly included in this legal process? I can't quite see the consequences, I have to say. The starting point of the SP is that the electoral system should be the best possible translation of the electorate's wishes into the number of seats in parliament. I have the idea that the current system of the largest averages is beneficial to large parties and can be detrimental to smaller parties. Can the Minister say anything more about this? What are these relationships like, anyway? What would it mean in practice if we switched to the system of the largest surpluses? This bill does not enter into force on 15 March, so it does not affect the forthcoming elections. Is the Minister prepared to prepare a legislative proposal on this in the spirit of Mr Bishop's amendment, with its own legislative path? Then we can deal with that bill as a bill deserves to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. This bill comes at a special time, exactly six weeks before we have elections. It is always special to see that at the time when elections are being held, there are still more parties for list combinations and list connections, but when it is put into a law, there are all very serious fundamental objections. I'd like to mark that double here after all. After all, imagine now that the PvdA and GroenLinks had excluded the VVD. Then Mr Van Raak had entered into a list link with the PvdA and GroenLinks on the initiative of his party chairman. But that aside. We can simply debate the substance of a proposal here. A change in the right to vote requires great care, as far as we are concerned. After all, the Tickets Act regulates the core of our democratic process: the elections. For this reason, my group has never found it very happy that, on an afternoon-after-noon motion by this Chamber, a njet was pronounced against list connections. But I also have a number of questions about the law now before us on that motion. List connections are still used regularly in practice. It strikes me that there is actually no good argument on the basis of which those list connections should now disappear. Mr Bishop asked: what great social problem are we solving? What major problems arise because there are list connections? The argument put forward at the time by Mr Taverne, which is now also reflected in the government's proposal, is that the original objective of the list was to encourage greater cooperation. That target would now have vanished. I have to say, I don't recognize that. Take my own party. We have a list link to the SGP at national level and we work together at local level in different places and have list connections. A list link is a way for both parties to express our commitment, while there are also some very clear and very fundamental differences that make us two different parties. I do not understand why the possibility of expressing that kind of commitment should disappear. In my view, uncertainty for the electorate cannot be an argument for abolition either. Anyone who enters a list connection will print that clip-and-ready on the ballot. Any voter can take note of that and consider it. Very transparent!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u69	It's justified. The SP has also participated in combinations in the past when asked for them, because as a party you have to deal with the electoral system you have. In doing so, we have always made a substantive assessment. Do we want to be so closely associated with these parties at the moment? The Labour Party has just been pursuing a policy that we dislike for four years. So we chose not to. Mrs Schouten says: we do that because we are so close together. But isn't it much more of a strategic choice? Is it not about the question: do we want the opportunity to get an extra seat and do we then agree that with our votes the party to which we are connected would have an extra seat?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u70	There are two sides to this question. I will first discuss the list link that will or will not be established between the SP and the PvdA. Mr Van Raak suggests that the SP has said that this list link is not established because the PvdA has pursued too much of a right-wing policy in recent years. However, I myself heard Mr Meyer, the party chairman of Mr Van Raak's party, say at the last congress that he was just inviting those parties to enter into that list as long as they were not going to govern with the VVD. After all, an invitation from the SP for a list connection has even been issued? Surely Mr Van Raak cannot say that they are so opposed in principle? I think that was a week ago. The bill was filed here a long time ago. So far about that double, but that aside. I think that is an internal discussion of the SP. It can be fed there. The second point concerns the strategic aspect. That's what it's all about. I recognize that. But that is mainly because we think it is important that voters also know that if there is a residual seat, it will also end up in a corner that may be closest to the party of their first choice. I have just had that discussion with Mr Taverne. I think that is a very legitimate argument. I find it much more unbelievable when a voice on the SP eventually reaches the VVD. That is precisely why Mr Van Raak was so opposed to the other parties. But that possibility will remain if the bill is passed. That's in the residual seat distribution system. So you can never see these two apart from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would ask you to avoid discussions on the topicality of list connections as much as possible, unless it really serves as an example. You know what I mean, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u72	But the discussions on list connections show exactly where the problem lies. All parties are using it strategically. That behavior comes from the system. That is why it is better to make that system simpler. Isn't that what the Christian Union should think? It is better to make the system so that it does not provoke this kind of strategic behaviour. Surely it would be much better to have a system that is much simpler and much better able to translate people's voices and voting relations into parliament rather than a system that naturally invites strategic behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u73	I'm fighting that it's just strategic behavior. If that were the case, perhaps we should have entered into a list link with the SP, but we do not, because the SP and the Christian Union are too far apart in that respect. So it does reflect a part of your views and your ideals. Perhaps it also reflects the connection which, in our case at local level, is reflected in cooperation within one group. I recognise that there is no doubt a strategic component to it, but I do not think that this is the only argument for it. You start a list connection with a party you feel connected to. I think that is a very legitimate argument. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of unclearness. It wouldn't be clear to the voter, but it's just clip-and-ready on the ballot. Any voter can take note of it and consider it. It's very transparent. The argument that it is annoying for the voters that a vote on the PvdA can move to GroenLinks, while the voters themselves did not want that, is not convincing either. The distribution of residual seats always involves such shifts. The only thing that can be achieved with list connections is that the rest that a party has left can be steered in a certain ideological direction. For the electorate, it is clear in advance in which direction any residual vote will preferably take place. That seems to me to be more than less right to the vote cast by the electorate. Why would we want to abolish that possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u74	I do not want to repeat this, but also Mrs Schouten places great emphasis on the way in which the remaining seats are distributed. That is an effect, but it is separate from the system of list connections. The question also applies to this: why not maintain the pure position on list connections? One of the parties from which the Christian Union was formed was the GPV. The GPV was also opposed to the possibility of list connections. I could put the same question to Mr Bishop. Why is there no separate proposal on a different system of residual seat distribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr President, allow me to deal with the subject of the SPD. We have also looked at our predecessors in it. The RPF didn't exist at the time, but we could see what the GPV was like. I would like to read a quote from Mr Jongeling, who said in that debate: 'For voters who voted for a combination, but then on a list that did not make it, it is a good right that their vote should be expressed as well as possible, as close as possible to where they wanted to end up'. Mr Jongeling voted against the law at the time because an amendment of his did not make it. That amendment would lead to further improvements. Even two parties that would not individually establish a seat would have a seat together with a list link. So Mr Jongeling wanted to go even further than the law. That's why the GPV voted against the law. In that sense, we are consistent. Mr Taverne has also asked if you need this law for that rest seat. Maybe that sec isn't the case. I therefore call on Mr Taverne to accept Mr Bishop's amendment to item No. 7. This bill makes the current distribution of votes a bit fairer. If we remove the list link, however, on the other hand we must also ensure that those who have the most votes will also have the remaining seat, but that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you for the presentation by Mrs Schouten on the position of the GPT. I didn't notice that. Then there is the second point. In practical terms, I understand that, but we are talking here about legislation that is intended for the current system. This concerns the list link. I do not think it is entirely right to say: vote in favour of Mr Bishop's amendment. That should actually be done by means of a separate route, which has been mentioned earlier, because that is so pure. It would once again lead to a link between two subjects which are strictly separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u77	I do not agree that these matters are separate from each other. Mr Taverne knows that, too. If we abolish this bill, if we stick to the current division of seats, then that would be very convenient for the VVD. Mr Taverne did not want to do so just now, but then residual seats will end up with the largest parties. However, we do not want that. This bill does not favour a larger party. Mr Taverne also states that this is not the objective and that we should not want it at all. I would say: then make sure that we move to a different residual seat distribution. The quickest way to do that is through Mr Bishop's amendment. Mr Taverne would prefer the Minister to table such a bill. I am fine with that, but then the bill and the proposal on the list link must be dealt with in the First Chamber at the same time. That would be my proposal, because those two sides are on this bill. Mr Taverne cannot deny that. Maybe we'll have a deal on that, but then we'll have to wait for the Minister's bill. Then we will also wait for this bill to be dealt with in the First Chamber. Both legislative proposals can then be put into effect at the same time. However, I can see Mr Taverne shaking 'no'. Mr. Taverne's intentions are now coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u78	It's called entrapment, but you all look at the clock with me once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u79	I do not wish to close Mrs Schouten with any malicious intentions about the intentions which she believes I may have, but in view of the length of this proposal, I do not think it is a good idea to add a delaying factor. We will judge at a later stage on Mr Bishop's amendment, but as far as the VVD is concerned, this proposal must follow the normal course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u80	The quickest way to achieve this is to vote in favour of Mr Bishop's amendment, because then we covered both things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u81	You'd already made that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u82	Sure. I believe that the proposal affects the balance in our electoral legislation. In the Netherlands we work with a system of the largest average. That is what the amendment is about. That means we don't look at the rest that's left, so whoever has the most left gets the rest seat. In our system the party that has the highest average number of votes per seat gets the residual seat. That system benefits large parties. If you have 39 seats, then a small rest can already provide a high average and residual seats. However, small parties were always able to join forces through list connections. As a result, small parties have opportunities to regain balance in the system. However, that possibility disappears. That is what we were talking about just now in the interrupting debate. I understand, therefore, that Mr Bishop is proposing to replace the system of the highest average with a system of the largest of the rest. If we want a different system, then we want a different system. We therefore support Mr Bishop's amendment. This is also more in line with the Taverne motion, which states that votes should, in principle, be taken by the party that actually received those votes; its own quote. However, we would prefer this bill to be rejected. There are insufficient grounds for my group to abolish list links. In fact, in a diverse political landscape, list connections are a blessing. It encourages political cooperation of spirited movements and contributes to the right of voters to vote. I think that is all that can be expected from the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. I think one day like today, we're gonna miss Reverend Abma. Then the debate would not have taken so long, as may be happening now. Greetings to the Minister, because it's kind of spicy what's going on here. A motion by three colleagues stated that we must put an end to this. Then the Minister said: I do not really feel like doing that. Then he reluctantly produced this bill, whether or not in his illegal gazebo. Now he has to defend something. Are you sure he's gonna defend it? It'll be fun. At least he had to bring in something he doesn't really feel like doing himself, and that's what he did today. I look forward to the first term of office. I think we have had this period, but the first term of the cabinet will of course be very nice, because is the Minister of the Interior going to deny his own bill? It's gonna be very exciting and I look forward to it with a lot of interest. However, I should like to pay tribute to the fact that he is doing this, because it seems that parliamentary democracy is still being held high by this minister. He does what the Chamber says, but he doesn't want to do it himself. In any case, he underlines the primacy of parliament. That's just the way it's supposed to be, but at least it's worth a compliment that it's happening. Professor Oerlemans said in 1990 that we are simply living in a single-party state, because all these parties are very much alike and are broadly in favour of the same thing. In the past we have seen a number of mergers between political parties. GroenLinks and the CDA are wonderful examples of this, and so are the Christian Union. I've never heard many signals from people who said we should reverse those mergers. Apparently, these mergers are a success and they are shared by the members. There have been numerous proposals for new mergers. Mrs Hamer and Mr Samsom of the Labour Party want to merge with the SP. Mr Rutte and Mrs Schultz van Haegen want to merge with D66. They're both VVDs. I'd say just do that. This will help to clarify the situation. If you don't want to, you shouldn't and then you shouldn't introduce all kinds of intermediate forms, such as list connections. Just go merge. It's very simple. If you say you want to work together, just work together. I think it is right that the list link should be abolished. It increases transparency and makes it clear what a voice is. If you think your party is unique, give it a unique voice. A list link also provides a bonus for parties to imitate each other, so the list link strengthens the effect of parties that go to the middle, to the consensus, while parliamentary democracy needs parties that deviate from the consensus. It is also at odds with the idea that we vote for individuals rather than parties. We have discussed this in a number of previous debates during this period. How you turn it around, voters vote on individuals and parties play no role in state law at all. Then it's strange that you're going to assign a certain weight to the parties via a list link. That is contrary to one of the principles. I think it's been a long time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr. Chairman. Citizens' participation is the core and goal of our democracy. There are many ways to give substance to this participation in society. One of these is the composition of the parliament; the parliament. The parliament, the House of Representatives, the city council, Provincial States and the First Chamber are the mirror of society and reflect the diversity in society by the fact that different parties act actively in the parliament. The Tickets Act is only the technique that determines who becomes a representative of the people. The Tickets Act is in fact a kind of engine block and the voter is the driver. The Tickets Act is the technique, but the voter is the driver; the voter determines where we're going. The list link gives extra explanation to voters and shows what kinship exists between different parties. This relationship can be reflected in a list link. With a list connection there is also more justice to the residual seat distribution, the distribution of the remaining votes. In fact, as is the case in Germany, a Zweitstimmensystem can be created. Then you give your vote to party A, but in a residual seat division that vote can also go to party B. As a voter, you know that's possible, because it's very clearly at the top of the list. The current system of residual seat distribution benefits large parties. The big parties are actually acting like voice robbers. This is compensated by these list connections, at least a little compensated, because party combinations should consist of participating parties, who obtain at least one seat in the Lower House or in a city council. That amounts to a kind of vote robbery, because votes cast on a party that does not have a seat, but participates in a list link, will be dropped. That is why new parties are not encouraged to work together. With this cooperation, you can bring together as many votes as possible, so that there is clarity and also diversity is clearly expressed. That is why I am advocating that Mr Jongeling should have done so in 1973, a system that is much wider than the current system. Then you also give new parties more opportunities to distribute residual seats with a list connection. If the list link is to be abolished, you also look at the reason why it should be. There is no opinion in favour of abolition. No advice from Chosen Council or anyone else was there: you have to do that. Even the internet consultation was negative about abolition. Parties make use of it, so why would you abolish the list link? Two weeks ago, my own-initiative proposal on the abolition of electoral circles was discussed here. There were opinions from the Council of State, the Election Council and the VNG, all of which thought it was a sensible idea to abolish the electorate. At that time, the Minister used as the only argument a strong argument, namely that there is a need for electoral circles, so we must above all let them exist. When I look at this proposal on the abolition of the list link, there is also a great need for list connections, in society, in parties, in various municipal councils and in various elections. It is freedom of choice, and of course it is very important for free-minded politics to decide whether or not to make a list link. If the Minister would like to follow the need argument of two weeks ago, he should now say: there is a need for list connections, so we advise against this bill. Then this bill would have to be dismissed. I think that would be a good idea. Finally. I always end my contributions by saying that basic income is also an important thing for society and has great benefits. In many areas that is true, but the Kieswet is really a technical thing, so I leave a link with the basic income, which I am very much in favour of, but not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. History shows that the possibility of listing combinations has been discussed several times. Several state committees have looked into this. Once again, this led to the abolition of the list combinations, then to their reintroduction. History also shows that there are many different arguments to be for or against. The Election Council has also examined the subject on several occasions and evaluated the system. Also the Election Council is then again for and then against. My first question to the Minister is why he chose to come up with a legislative proposal himself and did not choose to leave list combinations on a subject that the State Commission could have considered. In other words, what's the rush? Even the Election Council could only do a limited investigation, because the bill had to pass. For what reasons should this bill be submitted by Parliament with steam and boiling water? According to the Minister, a key point is that processes for pooling political groups hardly occur anymore. It is true that there has been no merger since 2000, but no one can see in the future. In addition, you have to note that the politics of 2017 shows a highly fragmented landscape. The question is, therefore, whether the point raised by the Minister is valid for the future. The PvdA therefore considers that the Minister's reasoning on this point is too vague. Can the Minister give further reasons as to how he came to this consideration for the future? For the residual seat distribution system, the government sees no reason to change it. Of course, in the explanatory memorandum, the government is right to state that no residual seat distribution system is capable of achieving absolute proportionality. But here again, my question is why the government has chosen not to take these questions out of politics properly and to submit them to the State Commission. To sum up, I can be brief: we voted against the motion and, quite frankly, we do not see the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal before us. So much for my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u86	It is interesting that Mrs Fokke is now constantly seeking to set up the State Committee, which the PvdA Group has never been very enthusiastic about. Anything else: is Mrs Fokke's opinion three years or short before preparing a bill such as this, which is relatively limited in scope?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u87	It is not three years, because I think the motion was from the end of 2014. So if I count just as quickly, even if I'm a lawyer, that would always be two years. Another point is that it has been some time since we discussed this at the procedural meeting and that it could be notified for a plenary debate. So it has also been on the shelf for a long time. It certainly was treated very quickly. Mr Taverne can now tell a different story and tell a very interesting story about the state committee, but I am glad that we have a state committee. This is such an interesting and important point that we have to note today that politics is divided about it. The discussion about the residual seat distribution is mainly about the fact that a large party apparently wants system X and a smaller party system Y. We have a state committee. Friday has become known who's going to lead her. Then let us all be so sensible as to put this issue down there. What is the problem, Mr Taverne?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u88	The problem is that we're just making laws here and we're not moving all kinds of issues that we're apparently against to a committee. Let us conclude that there has been two and a half years between the motion and the bill. So I would like to take away the impression that Mrs Fokke is going through a bill that says 'with steam and boiling water'. Because that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u89	Again, I don't think this is right. The note clearly states that even the Election Board did not have time to conduct a thorough investigation. Finally, the results of municipalities are attached to the answers sent to the Chamber. The draft law was notified for plenary proceedings a long time ago and has remained silent for some time thereafter. In that sense, things are moving fast, especially when you look at the history of an earlier proposal, which took five years before it resulted in the re-entry of the list combination. Yes, Mr. Taverne may add story X to history, then my story must also be added to history for the sake of fairness. I think that would be very good for the Acts of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u90	The fact that a proposal is there for a time before it is dealt with is constantly happening. Mrs Fokke should not give the impression that this proposal is being rushed through because it is not. I don't understand where she gets that. If Mrs Fokke wants to put the Acts into her hands, she has to know for herself. We know who said it, we'll think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u91	I think so, too. I think it was Mr Taverne who asked himself in the first place whether the proposal could be sent to the First Chamber as a matter of urgency, so that it could be dealt with before the municipal elections. So there is definitely some pressure from the VVD behind it. Let's not run away from that. We can play games with each other, but I am not that into that: everyone can see when the motion has been tabled and when this bill has been submitted for plenary consideration in the procedural meeting. Well, let's just leave it at that then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u92	The love in the coalition is a little over, I notice, so in the run-up to the election. But I want to go back to the core of the problem. I am very much in favour of our electoral system ensuring that people's votes are translated into seats in parliament as best as possible. Does Mrs Fokke agree with me that the system of list connections could lead to a distortion? For example, we are now seeing this in the European Parliament. Does Mrs Fokke agree with me that the way we now allocate residual seats can be disruptive? Does she agree with me that these are two elements which mean that the distribution of seats in Parliament is not an ideal translation of citizens' choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think the ballot is very open and transparent: citizens see what choices they can make. That is why I do not see that problem. It would be problematic if not everyone could make use of this system, but it could. It's a choice whether or not you want to enter into a list combination. Eventually, we'll all chop with the same axe. That is precisely why I do not see the problem Mr Van Raak is raising at the moment. In addition, the government rightly points out that whatever system you choose will, unfortunately, never achieve total proportionality. We can already see this in the debate today: the one system proposed will benefit smaller parties, the other system proposed is just a little more positive for larger parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mrs Fokke says that Mrs Schouten did just that, because there is a "threshold" sign, it is okay that there is a threshold. But if you don't want a threshold, that's not enough. Then you'd better get rid of the threshold. The discussion should not be about what is best for one's party. The discussion should be: how can we best translate people's voices into parliament? I think you can look very neutrally at which system is best capable of doing so. We have a very good system, if you compare it with the United States or the United Kingdom or Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u95	This is a bit of your second term. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u96	Why not Mrs Fokke, if we are to set thresholds, for example through the list connections or the allocation of residual seats, just as I want those thresholds to be removed. If there is a proposal to that effect, why does she not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u97	Apart from what has been said in the past about list combinations, we cannot look into the future. You can also occasionally indicate that there is a certain kinship. We can all go through list combinations. There's no difference. I think the system as it is now is working fine. It is clear to everyone where the threshold lies. If we hadn't said there was a threshold, we'd have another discussion, because we'd be fooling people. But everyone knows that threshold is there. Then the question is whether you want that threshold to remain or whether you want to remove that threshold. Mr Van Raak says that this threshold must be removed as far as he is concerned. I say that this threshold can remain there, because it is very open and transparent where that threshold lies and what it means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr. Chairman. We're going to the ballot box in six weeks. Political parties do their utmost to convince voters with the best candidates, the best election program and sometimes with the best gadgets. We do not have a two-party system in the Netherlands, but a spectrum of parties. As many as 31 parties have now officially applied for the Lower House elections. Parties may also be more or less related to each other. Therefore, the possibility of list combinations or list connections is an excellent tool. In the opinion of the Cabinet, the advantages of list combinations outweigh the disadvantages. The establishment of lists is transparent and subject to political debate. The cabinet therefore sees no reason to abolish the possibility of establishing list connections, according to this minister from the PvdA/VVD cabinet still wrote to the Chamber in July 2013. Can the Minister reflect on those 2013 considerations again? According to the Minister, the main reason for parties to enter into a list combination is a better position in the distribution of the remaining seats. According to the CDA Group, list combinations provide recognition of parties. Voters identify with the social vision of their parties. They want their vote to end up with their party or else with a party closest to it. Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group that the distribution of seats in this way does justice to the will of the electorate? List combinations make it possible for residual seats to fall into a combination of related parties. Whether these parties engage in further cooperation after the elections is not a matter for the government, but for the parties themselves. That is rightly not a condition in the Tickets Act. List combinations do not conflict with the system of proportional representation. The CDA Group believes that with this bill the government is proposing a solution to a problem that, once again, is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u99	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I have found that the Minister can reply immediately. To that end, I would like to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us is indeed implementing a motion adopted by the Chamber in December 2014, a great two years ago. In that motion, the government was asked to abolish the possibility of establishing list connections and to submit a legislative proposal to the House of Representatives as soon as possible. I have advised against this motion, but it has been accepted, and it is not such a big deal that I have declared it unacceptable. I'm a democrat at heart. In particular, because this is a matter that concerns the political parties and they themselves wish to organise their own electoral process in this way. A majority of the House of Representatives says that they want to do it this way. The minister is literally the servant of the Crown and the one who presents the bill here. However, I would like to say to Mr Amhaouch that he asked for an answer on how things were going at that time. I did a little checking in the Acts. At that time, I spoke eloquently about the reasons why I did not recommend this motion. Firstly, the list link is a facility for the voters, who can indeed, as Mr Amhaouch said, think: I prefer to vote for that party, but if my vote, because it ends up in a place where a residual seat is to be distributed, is not in favour of the party of my first preference, then I think it is a calm idea that it will end up in a related party and not in a completely different place in the political spectrum. Another thing is that it is also a facility for the political parties. I have already noted at that time that a number of parties who signed this motion, and who therefore asked for the list link to be abolished, have concluded lists in recent years. So it seems that people also appreciate it and sometimes do so. I have just heard Mr Van Raak explain that, in the light of the current political situation, the SP chooses not to connect with another political party, because it is now in a coalition with the VVD. These are legitimate considerations, but apparently they also sometimes work differently. The government, on its own initiative, would not want to take away that possibility. It is a political fact that a majority of the House is asking for it. The idea behind it, its justification, is that it was introduced in the seventies at a time when many parties merged. That's true. It was seen as a facility for parties who weren't sure if they would eventually get in the boat with each other, but who had already moved in somewhat ideologically. In this way, it was possible to ensure that there was already a symbolic connection and that the voters also knew that a vote on one of these two parties had a greater chance of reaching one of these two parties in a residual division. You can say: now that we see that these mergers are not going so fast, we want to remove this facility for the voters and for those political parties. That is the proposal before us. I'll come back to the timing. Mr Taverne asked how quickly that could happen. If the bill is passed here, it is, of course, largely in the Upper House. We now also have the Advisory referendum Act. It cannot therefore enter into force definitively until eight weeks after it has been adopted by the States General. It will therefore be difficult to put it into effect before the summer recess, but if it were to take place shortly afterwards, it would not be a problem if it were to apply to the municipal elections next year. Anyway, again, that's in the Senate's hands, too. I'll be back in a few more questions, but that's what there is to say sec about that list link. A subject that is linked to this, but that is historically and logically separate from it, is the residual seat distribution. It has been going in this way in our country since 1933, through the system of the largest average. I agree with the point of departure of the philosopher Van Raak, who says that the purpose of the system of division of seats should be to translate the will of the people as fairly as possible into the composition of the parliament. Let me say something about that notion of "fair." At the time I read with great interest A Theory of Justice by the Harvard philosopher John Rawls. In it is the auction of Ignorance, the veil of ignorance. Based on that, you're actually saying that in determining what's fair, you need to be able to agree on it without knowing for yourself where you're going to end up in that distribution. Rawls talked about income distribution, about how to divide it between different professions, but you could also say that for parties. Ideally, you would like to have a conversation about what a fair distribution of the remaining seats is, regardless of whether you are a large or small party yourself. That is quite easy for me to do, because I do not know whether I am a member of a large party or a small party; that will still have to be proved. The idea behind the system of the largest average is that, when it comes to dividing residual seats, you want the percentage of seats to deviate as little as possible from the percentage of votes. You want there to be as little shift as possible between how many votes you've gotten and how many seats you've made. That indeed leads to a large party getting a seat rather than a party with one seat, because it would just double through a rest seat and that would be a bit crazy. You can express it much more learned than that. Bishop will undoubtedly do that in his lectures, but that is the essence of that thought. Another system that is also sustainable in itself is that you simply say: anyone who has the most votes gets a rest seat. But it could well be that a lot of parties only have a fraction of a seat. Then a small party would double, while for a large party it would still stay close to what one would be entitled to anyway. That is at least the idea behind this system. Nor is the Council in favour of replacing this with the system advocated in the amendment. That would also have crazy effects. That would also mean that each party can only get one seat and that at some point a seat can go to a party that has hardly any remaining votes. So you have to think carefully about whether you want to take that injustice on the bargain. I would therefore urge the Chamber not to adopt the amendment now. Let me say straight away that if I do, I would like to ask the Presidency to give the government the opportunity to consider the legislative proposal for a moment. After all, that suddenly gets a completely different load. Once again, I was not cheering, but forward, I am implementing the wishes of the Chamber. If the weighted average system, which has been in force since 1933, were to disappear on this occasion, I would really need further reflection in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u101	For the sake of precision, you are talking about the amendment to item No. 7 and that betrays you, with recitation of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u102	Yes, more importantly, if it is adopted, I would ask you to give the cabinet the opportunity to consider the legislative proposal as amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u103	That is clear and firm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u104	I think it would even be a good idea for the cabinet to reconsider the whole proposal, but of course that is not up to me. I do not quite understand the presentation of things presented by the Minister. If the system for allocating residual seats were to take place according to the largest surpluses, as proposed in the amendment, the Minister would even say that a party with a minimal number of residual votes could have a residual seat. I think that's mathematically impossible. This problem applies precisely to the system of the highest average. Although a large party has an extremely minimal number of remaining votes, the system of the largest averages for that party makes it much more likely that it will have a residual seat than for a small party, which has a generous number of remaining votes. I think we should be very careful about this. The power of the large number always works with that system of largest averages in favour of the large parties and to the disadvantage of small parties. The amendment proposes to consider how many remaining votes there are and to allocate the residual seats in that order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u105	What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u106	The question to the Minister is whether that is not the fairest distribution of residual seats. I also ask the Minister whether he agrees that this would prevent the small leftover voices from getting the benefit of a residual seat at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u107	There is no misunderstanding that the system of the largest average aims to ensure that the percentage of seats differs as little as possible from the percentage of votes. That is why it is considered fair. If one party has twenty seats and the other party has one seat, that small party, if it still has half a seat to vote, will indeed make less of a full seat than a party of twenty seats. This is how the system works, and that is how it aims to work. I pointed out that, in choosing the largest surplus in the proposal before us, the last remaining seat could be allocated to a party which has very few votes left and still has a residual seat. Anyway, you have to weigh that the way you weigh it, but we advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u108	I don't think that's right, because the number of seats left is already allocated to parties with a higher number of remaining votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u109	Depends on the number of seats left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yeah, but arithmetically that's always true. The parties with a small number of remaining votes will thus by definition not be given a seat. They won't even get to it. Those remaining seats go to the parties, even though they are smaller parties, with a higher number of remaining votes. That's how the system works. Therefore, I do not agree with the Minister that a fraction of a number of remaining votes could lead to a residual seat. This can be done in the system of the largest average, namely in large parties. However, this cannot be done in the system of the largest surpluses. I would therefore like the Minister to reconsider the assessment of the amendment on the basis of this argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u111	I'm not doing that anyway, with the reasons I just gave. In the system proposed in the amendment, each party may have a maximum of one seat. Imagine if there were eight seats to be divided, then the eighth seat could go to the party that has only a few thousand votes left and for which it is really difficult to argue why it should have an extra seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u112	I would suggest to Mr Bishop that he respond in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u113	I'll see if there are any questions I haven't answered. Several Members have raised the same issues. Mr Taverne asked whether these list links were entirely separate or not. I answered that question. Mr Bishop asked whether there was anything wrong with the First Chamber. The remaining seats were divided by the members of the state. That is true, so we have abolished that possibility by law for that reason during this period. That is one of the many merits of the Rutte-II cabinet. Mr Bosma was curious to see how I would argue this. He's heard that now. This is, moreover, the first debate in months in which he has not tabled his amendment with the aim of eliminating the difference between small parties and large parties. I'm not gonna provoke you, but that would've worked out for this occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u114	So we are talking about entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u115	One sentence. We have the funny state-of-the-art unique that a minister here denies his own bill and that he's going to "send" my unsubmitted amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u116	I didn't hear the Minister use the word "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u117	I have previously given the "Room" judgment on that motion. That's all I want to recall for history. I listened with interest to Mr Klein's speech, in which he used the word 'vote robbery'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr Klein has signed out. He had to be somewhere else, but he let me know he's following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u119	Finally, Mrs Fokke's question about the rush. My answer is that a motion asked for this to be done soon. Yes, and then one does what one can, as the great writer Gerard Reve said: one does what one can. I've run out of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u120	That didn't go unnoticed. I see Mrs. Fokke wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u121	I asked a question about the state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yes. The question was whether we could leave this issue to the State Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u123	Yes, the bill, and there is now an amendment on the residual seat distribution. Can't these things be taken over by the state committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u124	That puts me in a difficult position, because I did not recommend going in this direction. However, I have taken full responsibility for carrying this out and for doing it as a matter of urgency. That's what I'm doing now. It could perhaps be considered destructive in this legislative process to pass this on to the State Commission, because then you will know that you will only have a position on this in two years' time. So let me remain neutral about this: I am not going to recommend this. This really is a point of order of the Chamber, how it wishes to deal with it. There is no denying that it affects the aspect of the establishment of the parliamentary system, but the consideration of the State Committee is not the main issue, as it turns out when you read the Duthler motion. So it is certainly not a forced move to link it to that. I take note of the fact that your Chamber already took a position on this issue on 3 December 2014. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u125	And so we went from Gerard Reve to Pontius Pilate. Is there a need for a second term on the part of the Chamber? That's the case. Is there a need for a suspension prior to this short second deadline? That is not the case. I'll keep the order of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I would like to endorse Mr Bosma's first-term compliments on the way in which the Minister has defended the proposal here. I believe that the Minister has done this on the right grounds in terms of substance and state law. I would also like to thank the Minister for explaining the choice not to address the residual seat distribution system in this legislative proposal. His explanation of why the current system is as it is could not have been clearer. I look forward to voting next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr Bishop asked if he could speak last, by way of derogation from the first-term order. I see no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his leanest defense of a government bill ever, and with the greatest reluctance. It's the Minister's honour that he does this. It's a request from the House of Representatives. I am very much in favour of abolishing list connections. The SP is in favour of having a electoral system that translates citizens' votes to Parliament's seats as well as possible. In practice, list connections are becoming more and more bumpy. This also applies to the distribution of the remaining seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Amhaouch, you have not interrupted much, but I urge you not to repeat at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u130	If I haven't said anything so far, I can't repeat much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u131	I also refer to the repetition of what others have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u132	I would point out that the Council of State states that it is a political choice how we organise this. Mr Van Raak speaks on behalf of the SP and he says that the SP is for this bill. Yet, seven days ago, his party chairman called for a list link. That's not consistent, is it? People in the public gallery and people watching at home don't know what we're doing here in the Chamber. What does the SP really stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u133	We are in favour of the electorate's votes being translated into parliament as effectively as possible. You have as a party to deal with the system there is. This system has thresholds. So the SP must also see how it deals with it. When we get a request for a list link, we always check whether we want to. Sometimes we do, and sometimes we don't. However, we are in favour of a system without thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u134	This is the last thing I'm gonna say about this. The SP received no request; there was an appeal from the party chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u135	We have always looked at which parties we can best work with, preferably in terms of content. For example, which parties will support our efforts towards a national health fund? This time we have not used a list link because we want to prevent people voting for the SP from finally seeing their vote in a government at the VVD. We have said that, but we would rather have a clear, clear system, an election job without thresholds and certainly without thresholds. The latter was a proposal from the CDA, and by the way also from the VVD, to create additional thresholds so that small parties do not enter the Lower House at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr. Amhaouch still? No. Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u137	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van Raak on the latter, the electoral thresholds. I would like to comment briefly on Mr Van Raak's remark that he does not want his vote to end up in the VVD and that is why he wanted the PvdA and GroenLinks to exclude the VVD. Does Mr Van Raak recognise that, as it now seems, the chances of that seat being transferred to the VVD will only increase if this bill is adopted without Mr Bishop's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes, and that is why I am pleased that Mr Bishop has tabled that amendment. I share the concern that the system of the largest averages is to the benefit of large parties and that a system of the largest surpluses could be a fairer distribution. The Minister clearly asks the question "what is fair?'. He says, "If a party has twenty seats and has one seat, it is a twentieth; if a party has only one seat and that party has a seat, it is 50%." So you can look at it, but you can also look at it quite differently and just start counting who gets a seat. Once all the seats are divided, we're going to count again. Whoever gets the most votes gets the seat. Then we're going to count again: who has the most votes? He gets the couch. So you go on until all the seats are divided. I think that's a very fair system too. Maybe I think that's an even fairer system. I do have a little bit of a problem. I would like to support this amendment, but I would much rather not deal with it under any other law. I would prefer that we do not ride this in this law, but give it a full treatment. I would therefore much prefer that the Chamber, as Mr Taverne, Mr Schouw and I have done before, should instruct the government to come up with legislation to ensure that we follow a good legislative path. I would not find it wrong at all to consider whether the House of Representatives could instruct the government to come up with legislation in this area. I must also be honest: there are all kinds of advantages and disadvantages; it goes very quickly through an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr Van Raak says that it is all going through this amendment very quickly, but if you think it is more honest, this is also a way that you could take to ensure that it is implemented. Well, now's the time. Like Mr Van Raak, I agree that we should just look at how we can arrange it. I am glad that he has at least removed his reservations from the first term. That's when he didn't know. At that time he wanted to ask the Minister how this worked out, but I hear that Mr Van Raak is in favour of at least using a different method of counting in the residual seat distribution. That sounds like profit to me. That order must indeed come from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u140	By the way, I also said in the first term that I was in favour of this and that I liked it. I even said it made sense to me, but it didn't apply to the procedure. I also think that what the Minister said didn't help. He says: if the House of Representatives wants a law to be passed on list connections, I will; I do so reluctantly, but I am democrat enough to do so. He also says: if the same House of Representatives then adopts an amendment on the allocation of seats, then I'll put in the big cannon and I'll have to reconsider this in the cabinet. That is not entirely balanced, and I am actually sorry about that. Now that the Minister has respect for a ruling by the House of Representatives on list connections, I ask him if he would respect a ruling by the House of Representatives on residual seat distribution. I would also like to point out that there is a difference. In fact, one, the list links, we are following a whole legislative process, while the other, the residual seat distribution, is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u141	The best method then is not to vote on this bill until the other part has been worked out neatly through the royal road and the legislative pathways. Then we can vote on both at the same time. Does Mr Van Raak recognize that? Otherwise we have arranged part A, but part B, which Mr Van Raak believes is so closely connected with, may not and the SP vote may end up with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u142	Is this a question to Mr Van Raak or an order proposal to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u143	Does Mr Van Raak, like myself, see that we should at least postpone the vote on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u144	No, I don't think so. I see a threshold, but another one up ahead. It doesn't mean that you shouldn't remove that one threshold while the other one's still there; I've been okay with one less threshold for a long time. In addition, this is about list connections for the Lower House elections. We'll have it on March 15th. You never know how long it will take for another government to come and you never know how long there will be new governments, but it seems to me that we would not have a moment. I would therefore have no difficulty in adopting this law now, then presenting it to the Senate for a wise judgment and then setting up a new legislative process, which we will have been able to deal with and discuss well in time before the new elections. So I would have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I do not have many questions; I have more observations. What I just mentioned in my little debate with Mr Van Raak remains standing: this bill must remain in balance with the way we deal with residual seats. That is also the view of the Christian Union. This balance will be lost if we adopt this part without having had a discussion on how to deal with residual seats afterwards. I have already indicated that I will therefore support Mr Bishop's amendment. I do think the Minister used great words when he said: I have to go back to the cabinet to see what this is going to do. If you deprive the smaller groups of the possibility of a list link and therefore the possibility of some kind of block formation, I think that will work to their disadvantage. Our parliamentary democracy benefits from the fact that everyone feels represented. We should respect that principle as much as possible. As far as we are concerned, this includes simply looking at where most of the votes have gone and assigning a residual seat to such a party. But hopefully we will continue this discussion. As far as we are concerned, we are already doing so; if not, we will, of course, do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u146	I note that Mr Bosma does not want to make use of his second term. Mr Klein is now absent. Mrs Fokke also waived her second term, as did Mr Amhaouch. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see the Minister can answer immediately. Oh, no, Mr Bishop would be the last to speak, because he has prepared a motion. So he has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr. Chairman. I was delighted with your kindness, but I thought for a moment that one more line would go through afterwards. Fortunately, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u148	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you for that. I thank the Minister for the way in which he has answered the questions. I found the argument of the past to support the argument that this should not be carried out, above all, significantly stronger than today's argument. But this honours the Minister and I thank him for that. I had asked for more substantive arguments than the Taverne and others motion. That question and the answer remain open. Apparently, there aren't any. One point, in my view, has been neglected: the double disadvantage of small political groups in state elections and, subsequently, first parliamentary elections, by the abolition of the possibility of list links. They are thus, as it were, harmed twice: firstly, because they are small groups and therefore are against the large groups in the Provincial States; then, when allocating the remaining seats for the Upper Chamber, they decide to do so. I regret that the amendment has been discouraged, but at the same time I have some hope that we will eventually be able to reach a more balanced decision if we can follow up on this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current residual seat distribution system creates an imbalance in the distribution of residual votes;]] [[Whereas this system grants one or more seats to parties who no longer have any residual voting rights;]] [[Whereas a system of largest surpluses would be better suited to the proportional representation required by the Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to amend the system of granting residual votes based on the actual number of votes remaining and not on an average,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34377-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u150	We have come to the end of the second term of office. Shall I wait until the motion on paper reaches the minister? The Minister has heard the operative part. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr. Chairman. I had intended to comment on the points raised by Mr Van Raak and Mrs Schouten, but in fact they coincide with the judgment on Mr Bishop's motion. Strictly speaking, there is no link between the two topics of the residual seat distribution and the list connection. There is no historical one either, because the residual seat distribution system is from 1933 and only 40 years later the list connection is laid down in the law. If you were to abolish it again, you would fall back on the situation that existed for 40 years before that, in which there was a legitimate system for the distribution of seats. I said earlier that I am implementing the adopted Taverne Parliamentary Motion, even if I had advised against that motion, on the assumption that it is a facility for voters and political parties and that it is voluntary. By the way, most parties do not participate. If a single party wishes to use it, that's fine with me. If the Chamber no longer wishes to offer this possibility, it will have to be laid down in the law. It has a different character, a different weight from what is now being asked for by the motion for a resolution. We are now in fact calling for a very fundamental revision of the distribution of seats. Honestly, I do not think we can do this on an afternoon-to-afternoon motion. If you were to vote in favour, I would not have the same relaxed attitude and say: the Chamber has spoken, we are making it a law. I would like to have an opinion from the Council of State and the Election Council anyway, but the government would like to consider whether you really want to do so. Again, here is the fundamental question as to whether, if a residual seat is left, it can unpack in such a way that a party doubles its seat. Or do you attach more importance to the fact that you deviate as little as possible from the results of the elections? That's why I don't recommend the motion. Let's see what the Chamber does with it first. If it is to be adopted, the government must consider what it is going to do with that motion, as is always the case. Let me add that in a very significant way. I think I have answered the issues raised in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u152	I'm just going to look around and see if that's what the Chamber thinks of you. That's the case. Thank you very much for your presence and the answers given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-3.u153	I propose that the House vote next Tuesday on the amendment tabled and the motion tabled.
