ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	Here too, the work continues, fortunately. Mrs Helder is already standing by on behalf of the PVV. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The number of reports of identity fraud more than doubled last year; a sad development. In case of identity fraud, criminals abuse false or stolen identity data. For example, they buy goods in the name of someone else without paying or giving up the stolen identity upon arrest. That causes financial and sometimes psychological misery for the person whose identity has been stolen. My group does not believe that the only reason for this duplication is that reporting has become easier. That is why the first question to the Minister is what are the reasons for this. If the minister already knows him, what's he gonna do about it? I would also like to hear from the Minister whether he is familiar with the situation of the victim mentioned in the relevant message. If this is not the case, is the Minister prepared to contact the victim's lawyer, because the victim has been living in this miserable situation for more than five years and the unsub is known? Two further questions. How will the Minister ensure that public authorities such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates and the Central Judicial Collection Office will be more active in helping victims, especially if the identity of the offender is known? Is the Minister also prepared to arrange for the CBR and the CJIB, for example, to inform, respect and act on the right of a victim? Finally, it is not convenient that the identity is usually not properly controlled by the police, for example in the event of an arrest. It seems to be merely looking at whether the given identity data exists, but not whether it is actually the data of the person concerned. By doing so, a lot of misery can be avoided. Of course, this is a question for the Minister of Security and Justice, but still the question to this Minister whether he agrees that the police should do so as I just outlined. Is he willing to pass this on to his colleague from V and J?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	Madam President. I would like to thank Mrs Helder for drawing attention to this important issue of identity fraud. I fully agree with her that this has been a bit of a problem in the past. Someone could rent a car under a false name and take off with it, but now more and more interactions are happening digitally, the possibility of placing orders and doing things under a false name increases enormously. For this reason, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has already launched a campaign to draw people's attention to this risk, for example the fact that they should not share their identity data. We have also created an app that allows numbers to be deleted if it is necessary to show a copy of a driver's license or passport anywhere. In addition, a central hotline has been set up: the Central Reporting Point Identity fraud and errors(CMI). I didn't see the message, but I understood that at WNL there was a message that the number of notifications at the CMI has doubled. I checked this out, and it's true. In 2016, there were 1,724 notifications and the year before 805. I have no reason to believe that this is because the number of cases of fraud has doubled. I assume this is because people are now able to find their way to the Central Meldpunt. That's basically good news. The hotline also supports people and advises them to file a report if appropriate. That's what happened. In 2016, 456 suspects of identity fraud were handed over to the D.A.'s office. There too, there is a doubling compared to last year. The awareness and willingness to report have thus increased. The CMI also supports victims. Mrs. Helder specifically asked about one case. I need to find out if the person concerned is or can be supported. It is possible that this will gradually get into the atmosphere of the Ministry of V and J. I am prepared to pass this on to my colleague from V and J and thus also the question about the arrests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answer to three of my questions. I continue to believe to the Minister that the doubling is due to the fact that reporting has become easier due to the establishment of the hotline. I admit to the Minister that I will, of course, keep an eye on this on behalf of my group. Identity fraud must remain on the agenda. Then there are two questions, which I would like to repeat. I asked the Minister how he was going to ensure that the public authorities I mentioned were more active in helping the victims. Now, for example, it is said in this situation that the gentleman should have objected. But this gentleman has lost his driver's license and there is still a red light driving. Of course you can't. Then an organization like this has to light a light that can't do this. So act actively. Does the Minister agree with me? If so, what will he do about it? Is the Minister prepared to make a more active point to the authorities that the victim's rights should now be respected on the basis of the Victims Directive and that victims should be actively informed about the declaration, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	The latter is the core task of the CMI, the Central Intelligence Point Identity Fraud. I take this first point back to that hotline, because I can imagine that if one recognizes patterns there that other public authorities are not responding enough to it, one will tie the bell to the bell and raise it there. In the event of non-response, it may eventually be raised at ministerial level. I agree it's not supposed to be like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answer to the last question. It is nice when it happens between instances, but it also happens within the same instance. If certain actions that belong to the same organization end up on one desk and then on the other, one must of course continue to be careful internally whether one is not doing things twice and whether one is writing to people who cannot be registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you.
