ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u1	As in previous debates, the Minister is still very welcome. It is now an area that has been covered by this Minister for a long time. Colleagues have signed up for good times. They don't have to complete it, so I say. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Paying taxes without knowing or, worse still, paying taxes without getting anything in return: it doesn't seem normal to me, but it still happens and it happens on an ever larger scale. In recent years, more and more municipalities have started to levy precariotax on cables and pipes of power grid operators and drinking water companies. The energy system operators pass these costs on to the inhabitants of all municipalities in their care area. So all customers in the care area pay for it. The residents who do not belong to the levying municipality do not have the right to vote in the municipalities but are still faced with higher burdens. That is not democratic, and that is not normal. The precario load on cables and pipes is not transparent. She's opaque. In addition, it appears that this tax has become an unprecedented milk cow in practice. That's not normal either. In 2016, at least 19 of 390 municipalities levy precario tax on cables and pipes. In 2011, the proceeds were still 74 million. In 2015, it is already 165 million. Converted to 390 municipalities, the municipality would raise over 700 million euros in total without this tax being directly visible. As early as 2004, the Chamber opposed this opaque and unfair tax. She did so again in 2005, again in 2010 and again in 2015. We all know that sometimes it can take a long time to get something done in this house, but this has taken a very long time. I would like to congratulate this Minister of the Interior for having started his work after the 2015 Veldman motion and now has a legislative proposal. Finally, you could say. Is this the dreamed bill? No. Although it puts an end to the tax option, it is not a perfect legislative proposal. Once the legislative proposal has entered into force, municipalities may no longer levy a precario tax on cables and pipes, with the exception of those municipalities which are already doing so and are going to be subject to transitional arrangements. So we're not off the hook. The Minister opts for a 10-year transitional period for the municipalities that had included in their tax regulation on 10 February 2016 that they levy this tax. Until 1 January 2027 these municipalities may therefore levy precario tax. During that whole period, the fare was fortunately limited to the rate applicable on 10 February 2016. However, for another ten years residents in a municipality who do not levy this tax will pay the tax that another municipality does. That's not normal. I just told you. I would like to do something about this. I've been looking into what I can do about it. It calls for an adaptation of the Electricity and Gas Act, which provides that energy companies may apply a difference in tariff only on the basis of a grid voltage difference. I understand that splitting the rate per municipality costs around EUR 10 to 15 million to allow energy companies to adapt their administrative processes and ICT. Can the Minister confirm that this is the kind of amount involved? I'll deal with the transition period. I understand very well that the principle of good administration does not allow a line to be drawn from one day to the next. Local authorities also have a time limit for phasing out subsidies. A term of about three years is often used. Why does the Minister choose a ten-year term? After all, this bill does not suddenly fall out of the sky. The Minister even announced this bill last year. So why ten years? In fact, I think a period of five years is more than enough. I would therefore like to amend this with an amendment to the law. If the precario tax on cables and pipes is abolished, the charges of network operators and drinking water companies will have to be reduced if the remaining costs remain the same. These tariffs are supervised by the Authority Consumer & Market and the Inspection Environment and Transport. What agreements has the Minister made or is the Minister going to make to ensure that these tariffs are actually going to fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. Precario load on the underground utilities infrastructure is an invisible load on invisible networks. This way of taxing is not transparent. This way of taxing crosses the balance in the municipal council between local charges and the local provision level. The CDA is for a fair economy and for a fair burden-sharing. This doesn't fit in. The Court has repeatedly stated that this form of taxation must disappear. Utilities are not collection agencies for municipal taxes. I would remind you of the motion-De Pater-van der Meer from 2004, the motion-Van Beek/Knops from 2005, the motion-Koppejan/Wiegman from 2008, the motion-Van der Burg from 2010 and the motion-Veldman c.s. from 2015. Why did it take so long to come up with a solution? The Minister has included a generous transitional period in this bill. Municipalities that had income from precario tax in 2015 may levy a further ten years precario. By letter of amendment, the Minister further extended the conditions for that transitional regime: municipalities that had a precario regulation on 10 February 2016 are now included. Is it true that 70 municipalities started to raise precario in 2016? How does the Minister assess this behaviour? Alderman Finance tweeted: "Lobby has worked. No extra ozb increase in 2017." How fair is this? The CDA Group considers that a ten-year transitional period is too broad. A 10-year transitional period would mean that the residents of other municipalities would continue to contribute to the budget of municipalities charging precario on the underground utility network for another 10 years. It may be necessary for utilities to incur additional costs in order to make divisions per municipality. The municipality that precario raises on the underground utility network sends its bill to the neighbors. It is high time we put an end to this. You don't buy television to get it paid by your neighbors, do you? A two-year deadline to put an end to this seems reasonable to the CDA Group. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. I'd like a response from the Minister to our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. Is it desirable to tax utilities? That question is currently being answered by the municipality for itself. The law allows this and therefore there are the necessary municipalities that levy precario tax on these general provisions. Today, the proposal is to abolish this possibility. Several responses to this proposal have been received, depending on the position taken. I want to zoom in on three points. Firstly, I want to establish a relationship with the local tax area. In 2004, thirteen years ago, the Chamber adopted the amended De Pater-van der Meer motion, in which the government was asked, and I quote: 'to involve the problem of charging precario on underground utilities infrastructure in the exploration of decentralised tax territory'. That is just as different from a plea for the abolition of precario rights, although of course that thought lies underneath it. It is an investigation into the possibilities of the local tax area. We do now have a legislative proposal to deal with the first, the abolition, but we miss the connection with the local tax area. The SGP Group believes that this is a missed opportunity. In recent years, we have decentralised various themes, particularly in the social domain. We have always said that it is therefore necessary for municipalities to have more room to levy their own taxes, otherwise they will not be able to make their own choices seriously. However, this proposal reduces the local tax area without opposing it. What exactly is the state of affairs with regard to the expansion of the local tax area? Can we quickly see concrete proposals from the cabinet? I would prefer to have it before the elections, but that could be problematic. The second point concerns the reasons for the proposal. This proposal reduces the local tax area, but is it, in itself, an undesirable proposal? No, as far as we are concerned, because the taxation of such facilities, the costs of which are also passed on to residents of other municipalities, is not really desirable. In any case, that is the government's reasoning. But here too, I think, we should look more fundamentally at the nature of the facilities. These are public utility facilities, such as drinking water pipes and electricity networks. The municipality itself has a particular interest in this. Nor should the cost of such public facilities be increased unnecessarily. Now the imposition of precario tax was a fair matter, because the municipalities had that legal possibility, but it is reasonable in itself that municipalities only charge those costs that are actually incurred for the benefit of those institutions. We therefore wonder whether the idea of tariff differentiation advocated by the VNG is not at least a good alternative. Would the Minister explain why it would be impossible to reach different rates through the Electricity and Gas Act, depending on the tax paid to the municipality concerned? Is it really impossible to realize that? In the case of drinking water, for example, it is possible. I would like to hear the Minister's reflections on this. The third point is the right of transition. The original proposal provided for a period of 10 years. The letter of amendment made a correct adjustment because municipalities had a legitimate expectation that they would still have the right to use the transitional right when they were introduced before 10 February. We believe that this letter of amendment is a good accompaniment to legitimate expectations. Nevertheless, we still have a specific question about the letter. This concerns the municipality of Hardinxveld-Giessendam. It states that a concession agreement, including agreed concession fee, existed with Stedin. This municipality may not levy a precario tax now, as the transitional period starts on 10 February. In such a case, what possibilities are there for this tax to be covered by the transitional law? It is therefore a situation which I would like to say very clearly about the question of a comparable remuneration; in material terms, it is not a first introduction but rather a replacement of that remuneration. This case seemed like a beautiful brainbreaker to me this winter evening. I would like to receive some brilliant comments from the Minister on this. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have a feeling that whatever we say on this subject tonight, municipalities will not agree on this bill. I've seen a lot of letters come by in the last few weeks. One town wants this, the other town wants it. I get it, too. They're all reasoning from their own point of view. But I think it is very good that this point is still on the agenda just before the elections and that we are really going to make a decision on this. I think it has already been said: it is not the first time that the Chamber wants something with this kind of precario tax. I think it's just a good thing we're making a decision on that right now. It will be no secret that, as far as we are concerned, this tax may simply disappear. It's just a really crazy construction: it's a tax imposed on energy and water companies and then actually paid by their customers. I agree with Mr Veldman. If we are going to abolish this precario tax, we can hope that these companies really are going to do something about the final bill that the citizen gets. That is what this is all about. We have a question about the ten-year transitional regime. I was wondering if when we take decisions in this Parliament that affect citizens directly very often, we would include a transitional provision of ten years. I think ten years is rather long, and I absolutely cannot justify it. That is why the VVD and the PvdA have tabled an amendment to allow the phasing-out not to be ten years but five years. Mr Bishop has already said something about the transitional arrangements. Indeed, I do not think that municipalities should reasonably assume in their 2015 budget treatment that the House of Representatives would adopt a motion a few weeks later in the own budget handling of Home Affairs. I have to say that I think it is very neat and fair that the Minister for the Interior has indicated by letter of amendment that this should be amended. We also want to be reliable to citizens. Public authorities must then also be reliable among themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u6	I hear Mrs Fokke say that there is no legal basis for the ten-year period. Then why five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u7	I think you should give the municipalities a reasonable period of time. We shouldn't keep a secret about that either. That is why I do not support Mr Ronnes' amendment. I find that amendment very strange, in view of the discussion that the CDA had in dealing with the internal affairs budget about the Community fund and the substantial cuts in municipal expenditure. Then I find it weird that within two years, your congregations are gonna put the knife to their throats and say it's over. Let's just say ten years is a very long time. I also point to history. When will something be finished in ten years? I really think that's a lot of good. In a year's time, the municipal elections will be held. Then there will be a new four-year coalition period. Now let's just be very fair and give municipalities five years to put that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u8	We want to be fair towards municipalities and we want to be reliable. I very much agree with Mrs Fokke. However, there are also municipalities that suffer from this disadvantage. There are also many residents who are indirectly presented with the bill. Does Mrs Fokke think it is reasonable that they should be billed by the neighbouring municipality for years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u9	No, I don't think that's fair either. Perhaps it would have been very nice if that knot had been cut by an earlier cabinet if a bill had been tabled by an earlier cabinet which had actually been dealt with in the Chamber. I think one of those previous Cabinets had a CDA minister in the Interior Department. That didn't happen. A motion was tabled to the Home Affairs budget in 2015. There's finally a bill. I'm just happy about that. If, in the end, a Chamber makes motions but no legislative proposal, then you cannot say to municipalities: you could reasonably assume that, because the Chamber has talked about it, something would happen at some point. No, you can't. You can't do that to the municipalities. Now there's actually a bill. A motion was tabled. Municipalities now know something has to be done. But you have to say that the deadline is reasonable. You can't put congregations on the throat. That would really be contrary to everything the CDA has said about it in the Home Affairs budget. The Labour Party considers a period of five years to be reasonable. But ten years is over; let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u10	It goes without saying that I do not think that the link with budgetary treatment is right. I would like to point out once again that the CDA in particular has been involved in a large number of previous motions in this area, with a view to abolishing it as soon as possible. That is why we have asked the Minister why this has taken so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u11	I note that the CDA has tabled a motion on this subject, but CDA ministers were the predecessors of today's ministers who apparently did not submit a legislative proposal accordingly. Mr. Chairman. We're glad the bill's there. We hope that it will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I have already indicated which points are important as far as I am concerned. I would like to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u12	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u13	Mr. Chairman. This law is the third law we are dealing with here tonight, but it's been in my wallet for a long time, so it's a little bit more in my own comfort zone. Mr Bishop has asked me to explain the reason why the possibility of lifting precario should be put to an end. The reason for this is not so much that the government would oppose the lifting of precario on utilities. However, this is a systematic transfer. That has been discussed extensively in the Chamber before. Take the example of the municipality of Ede. She raises precario on the local power grid. The laws in the field of Economic Affairs stipulate that the company that has to translate immediately to the rates, but that is then translated into the rates that partly end up with the residents of the municipality of Arnhem. They cannot in any way oppose the tax increased in the neighbouring municipality through the city council. There is a similar situation in the municipality of Haarlem. She also raises precario. This is not only brought up by the residents of Haarlem through the rates but also by the residents of Amsterdam. Especially in times of financial tightness, municipalities have this on the retina. Last year the rates increased 24%, because it partly becomes the character of almost free money. A municipality can raise it and its own residents only have to pay part of it, because the rest is brought in by neighboring municipalities. That is why I understand very well that the Chamber called me by way of a motion to put an end to this. That is what we are doing now, from the motto 'no taxation without representation', because the citizens are not now in a position to oppose the tax on their doorsteps through their representation. That is the reason for abolishing the levy now. Why have my predecessors not done so, since so many motions have been tabled in the past? I don't know, but at least I was invited by the Chamber to come forward with this bill. I very much appreciate that the Chamber can deal with this now. I note that there is broad support for the proposal. I appreciate that very much. I noticed, moreover, that the campaign agreement was apparently made by the largest parties in this Chamber in order to use a certain motto in turn, but that aside. I am not going to repeat it here, but in dealing with the previous two laws I indicated the same word combination as in Mr Veldman's first term. Compliments for the "message-proof" way he did it. The existing precario is legally levied by the municipality and is used effectively. If you decide to put an end to that for the reason I have just mentioned, namely to counter the systematic possibility of passing off, then you have to look at exactly how to do that. Two things are important here. From now on, you must avoid re-taxing municipalities that are not levying it now or that rates are rising. As I said earlier, stop the bleeding and make sure it doesn't get any further out of hand. Then you have to make sure that the frozen situation is reversed in time. Let me say something about both points. The first question is, of course, what moment do you freeze now? I had initially said that only those municipalities that have already levied a tariff on their residents in 2015 can maintain it until the end of the transitional period. I was confronted with a number of municipalities that said: that is not entirely fair, because we were confident that we would have the possibility, where we had included this in our regulation and had included it in the multiannual picture, but had not yet levied it, of eventually adjusting our multiannual plans, but not now. I did not think that was unfair and I said by letter of amendment: then we choose the situation that those authorities which had a tariff on 10 February 2016 may continue to charge it until the end of the transitional period. Then the question was: when is the end of the transitional period? Once again, the fees have been levied by the levying municipalities and the proceeds are spent efficiently, whether for a sports facility or for a green supply. You can't just say from one day to the next: we're taking that cover away from you. We must also have the opportunity to do something with this. We are not going to compensate, because it is not reasonable for the municipalities that have never levied the fees to pay for the gap in the levying municipalities. So you have no choice but to say that the municipalities that have levied a number of years will have to stop doing so in the long term and they will have to find other cover for that. I said in good consultation with the VNG: you really have to give them time for that. Let that be ten years. I add that you notice very well in the conversation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities that there are different interests. The municipalities that are now raising do so lawfully and believe in all reasonableness that this cannot be stopped. The municipalities which do not levy, but whose inhabitants contribute to the levy elsewhere, feel that this should be stopped as soon as possible. So I fully understand that the UNG wants to take a broad view on this issue. I think it is ultimately up to me, and of course to the Chamber as a legislator, as a "honest broker" to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u14	You are talking about 'chopping a knot', but I do not think that a ten-year transition period is really 'chopping a knot'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u15	I'll get to that. Once again, municipalities were allowed to assume in good faith that they could legally levy this and that they could spend the proceeds on sports facilities, green facilities or whatever other tasks they have. In intergovernmental relations, which the CDA always attaches great importance to, the Empire cannot just say to it: we stop from one day to the next. The measure has a gap of about 200 million in the levying municipalities. That's not a small beer. That is why, in the proposal on the table, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, I opted for that transitional period, which is indeed quite long. I can listen to the arguments of the Chamber. If, by amendment, the Chamber decides to make it five years, this means de facto the following. It is not my proposal, let me stress that. Next year there will be municipal elections. The college that then takes office can still rely on the budget which at that time in the budget was unchanged policy. It can base the plans for the next academic period on this. The College therefore knows that it will then be over and can use that period to set up the plans in such a way that the College can cover the gap in one way or another. Again, it is not my proposal, but if such an amendment were to be adopted, it would certainly not be a reason for the government to withdraw the proposal. I don't think two years are fair, to be honest, because then you're really gonna run into inter-administrative relationships. Then the levying municipalities will say: this is a huge gap in my budget and the Empire cannot actually do that. I would really object to that. In general terms, and with that, I have already answered many of the points that have been raised in the first term. I'll check on the speakers. Mr Veldman asked me whether it was true that, if you were going to specify it, it would entail charges in the order of 10 to 15 million. That's right. That is also the answer to Mr Bishop's question on possible tariff differentiation. You shouldn't want to, because that's too much red tape. Once again, I think that in a number of years' time we will be off the road. That's for the best, I think, in the public interest. Mr Ronnes asked for the transitional period. I just talked about that. I have already responded to his amendment. Two years, I think it's too tight. Mr Bishop rightly linked the proposed extension of the municipal tax area. As he knows, we have also discussed this before in the Committee on the Interior. I have worked out a proposal for this with Mr Wiebes, but it will really be up to a new cabinet to decide on it. That is not an easy matter. After all, if you double the municipal tax area, of course, local charges will also increase, and then you will have the whole discussion about differentiation between different municipalities, different rates in different places and the question of the income redistribution that might result for citizens. This is a complex issue and I have therefore chosen not to wait until this issue may be dealt with in a subsequent government agreement. I have chosen to anticipate that, but I agree that you should ideally decide all this in conjunction. Mr Bishop asked about the reasons. I have already answered that in my general part. It is not the main issue that we are opposed to precario on utilities, but in particular the passing-off makes us unwelcome here. As far as the transitional situation is concerned, I would like to find out how it works for one particular municipality, but I would like to stick to the letter of the law. We'll just have to find out which case it does and doesn't fall under. I am happy to do so, but I do not think that it should ultimately matter for the general scope of the law. Finally, Mrs. Fokke. Thank you for the support for the proposal. I got a meeting yesterday at her farewell reception. People who are older than Mrs. Fokke may remember Heintje Davids, who had a reputation for saying goodbye all the time. Shortly after she said goodbye, Mrs Fokke has again shown a reappearance here, so who knows where we will see her. Thank you again for all your support. I thought that's what I'd been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u16	I had asked the Minister what agreements he was going to make or what arrangements he was going to make to ensure that tariffs were actually going to fall. The Authority Consumer & Market oversees it and another body too, but is it really going to happen? In the end, the objective is that, if this opaque burden currently contained in the tariffs of the energy system operators and the water companies stops, the bill for the consumer, the residents, will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u17	I fully agree with the thrust, but there is no need to agree on this, because the law means that taxes such as the precario tax can be passed on to the rates, but once the tax goes away, the passing on of the tax also disappears and the rates have to be reduced. It is not even necessary to make an agreement on this, because it follows from the law and the Authority Consumer & Market will indeed see to it that it does. That is the whole point of the proposal, I can confirm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you. Then I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Then I would say that we are holding a speaking time of about two minutes and I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u19	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and thank you for complimenting me and other speakers of the VVD who were involved earlier today in the discussion of other legislative proposals, for the clear language we speak. I think it's perfectly normal for you just to convey the message clearly. Then let's get to the content. I asked the Minister whether it was indeed true that it would cost EUR 10 million to 15 million to arrange for energy network companies to split it up into municipalities during the transitional period and confirmed that this would indeed cost EUR 10 million to EUR 15 million. In the base, the VVD wants to tax this way. There must indeed be a decent transitional period, but to spend EUR 10 million to EUR 15 million now, so to make social costs, to split it out during that transitional period, I find a lot of good. I would like it for residents who live in municipalities where they are not charged, while they pay for the neighbors. I do not think, however, that it is really reasonable to spend another EUR 10 million or EUR 15 million on this. All the more reason to shorten the period. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he chooses for ten years, but he does not object in principle to it being five years. I am therefore pleased to have tabled an amendment together with Mrs Fokke from the Labour Party to reduce the transitional period to five years. Then, after five years, we are simply rid of this undesirable opaque and non-transparent burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mr. Chairman. It took a while to get to the CDA, to the past, by naming that there was also a CDA minister at the Interior, who apparently forgot about it for a long time. What I read in the pieces is that there were reasons for that. It would be taken into account in tax relations with local authorities. It took time at the time. I have to say, however, that this Minister is already working on his fifth year as Minister of the Interior. Then I find that remark a little faint. If we looked back, we might have expected such a proposal earlier in the last five years. I come to the undesirable side effects for other municipalities. I believe that we are wronging the municipalities that are currently paying the bill for the municipalities that have introduced the levy. I would ask the Minister and the political groups here to reconsider whether it is real to allow undesirable side effects to continue for five years. That's not fair, is it? I agree that there should be a good transitional situation, but two years seems to me a good time for a municipality to seek other funding options. In 2010 I myself, as alderman of finance, was also faced with a substantial cut in the budget that came from the cabinet. Even then, the option was on the table to lift precario. They didn't choose that. Many municipalities that do not currently charge a precario have already opted for other coverage solutions in an earlier phase. I'd still like to make that suggestion. I think it should be possible for the municipalities which have introduced a precario levy to find alternatives to that. I did not receive a reply from the Minister to my remark that 70 municipalities have introduced a precario levy at the end of the day. I want a clear answer to the question as to what the Minister thinks of this practice. Because I don't get a good feeling that that happened at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for the compact and effective answer to the questions. What gets stuck in the throat a little bit, is the relationship with the local tax area. We have talked about this on a regular basis during this period. It dates back to this period. A step is now being taken on this point, as far as precario levying is concerned. There is an exploration of the local tax area, but the question is what happens to it in a next cabinet. I would ask the Minister if he would at least take all his weight so that this will at least become a topic in the coalition agreement in the forthcoming coalition negotiations. I am curious to see what the result will be. Thank you for the commitment to take a look at the case I gave you. This may be one case, but there may be situations that are not covered by this bill 100%. Then it is good to know that there is a Minister of the Interior who is willing to consider in wisdom how it can then be brought to a reasonable solution. Thank you for that. I look forward to that with confidence. I am, of course, very interested in the solution the Minister has found for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u22	Madam President. I just want to say something for the Acts before I go through life as Heintje Davids. I am not going to start a debate on Heintje Davids, because then it would be a very special day: a day that starts with Black Piet and ends with Heintje Davids. I don't know if we should do that in parliament. I'm not gonna do that. I am indeed standing here for the last time. Then I'll just be gone. I'm going back to Maastricht. Anyway, let's get back to the order of the day, to the content. Thank you for the answers. I heard the minister say he's agreed on a ten-year term. I think he's been sitting around the table with all kinds of partners, but I also have a feeling he doesn't find five years really world-shattering. Unlike the CDA, I do think that two years is very short. We can kiss each other again, but I'm just finding that there's a bill just now, and I really like that. I have one small point that Mr Veldman mentioned. You really need to see the rates back on the account. We all hope so, but it is still an important point. Actually, the core is that it's so invisible and shadowy and that people eventually pay the bill. I think Mr Veldman also meant to ask whether we could not take another step in the right direction on that point. After all, we are here before the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u23	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u24	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for the broad support for the proposal as it stands. I'd just like to cover up with the cloak of love who did what when? I simply note that we are now presenting the proposal in this cabinet period, that it has a long history and that there is broad support for it. I very much appreciate that broad support. I agree with Mr Veldman that we should not again increase the administrative burden for millions by introducing differentiation, especially where this situation will be put to an end in a few years' time. I think it would be wise to leave it at that now and to resolve it in a structural manner. The Chamber has seen me fight like a lion for a ten-year transition period. I am now in a situation where there seems to be broad support for the amendment to reduce the deadline to five years. That's where I'm going. I realise that on the front of the municipalities, of course, there will always be a difference between the now lifting and the now non-levying municipalities and that it will therefore be a certain inconvenience. I say to Mr Ronnes that I have tried to respond implicitly to the question of the 70 municipalities. I have been persuaded by their argument that it would not be entirely reasonable in the context of expectations raised. If they had already planned to lift, which had even been in a regulation but had not actually done so, it would not be reasonable for them to be able to do so for that reason. Anyway, in five years, they can't do it anymore. If I were them, I'd take it easy, because structuralally, it doesn't do you much good. I think that's what it's addressed to. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, Mr Bishop has advocated extending the municipal tax area. I will bring that to the attention of those involved in the next formation. I always said I see the complications, too. After all, it is going to be quite an issue, because it can have major income redistribution effects. People are in favour of it, but when you see specifically what the point cloud is going to mean for categories of municipalities and categories of citizens individually, one progresses and the other declines. One of the laws of nature that I've observed in this position is that you don't hear from those who advance on it anymore. Those who go backwards on it, however, make their voices heard loudly. So this issue is far from being resolved. In abstracto everyone is in favour of broadening the municipal tax area, but I still have to see what happens when it becomes more concrete. However, I will certainly stress that this issue is on the agenda. Mrs Fokke stressed once again that the impact must of course be that the rates, which were aligned with the precario paid, are going down. I take that for granted. So I don't want to make any deals about it, because I just have to. It is up to the Authority to carry out an inspection of the Consumer & Market. I imagine that's where we're holding our finger on the wrist. It is not entirely in my portfolio, part of which lies with the Department of Economic Affairs, of course, but I think it is safe to say that when that law enters into force, we will ask the Authority of Consumer & Market to monitor this specifically. I admit that we will inform the Chamber if there is reason to believe that they do not agree. May I make a deal with you like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u25	I think we're all very happy tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u26	That's all I can wish for. I leave my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u27	That brings us to the end of the debate on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-13.u28	The vote will be on Tuesday. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister.
