ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the debate on the environmental impact assessment on Lelystad Airport. I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. In particular, I would like to welcome the people who are following this debate from the public gallery tonight. Members of Parliament have four minutes' speaking time. I will start with Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. Aviation in the Netherlands runs very hard against the borders, the borders of man, the environment, nature and climate. Charging a new airport for 45,000 additional flights runs counter to the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. GroenLinks therefore considers the expansion of Lelystad Airport a very, very bad plan. It is high time for alternatives, such as international rail, to guarantee the accessibility of the Netherlands. This debate tonight is about the raving research and the lack of decision-making around Lelystad Airport. As a Chamber, we must take decisions on the basis of research beyond doubt. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. The mistakes detected by the residents are now being repaired by the Ministry and by the same companies that previously established and controlled the EIA. The butcher who approves his own flesh. We want an independent review of all input data and sound profiles in the EIA. Is the Minister prepared to do this? The real mistake, of course, is that the EIA assumes a non-existent situation. At the start of Lelystad Airport, it is assumed that airspace would have been reorganised and aircraft could fly higher. This is not the case. No one knows whether there could be a higher flight rate after the reclassification of airspace. Lelystad is an airport without airspace; it is an air castle! An EIA must assess the impact of the intended final situation according to European directives. In this case, that's an airport with 45,000 flights. This is impossible to check without taking the results of airspace reclassification. Now we can't make a decision on the basis of an EIA for 10,000 flights. The Council of State has explicitly said that this is a salami tactic and that it should not. The letter sent yesterday by the minister seems to suggest that within the EIA the effects of 10,000 flights are being looked at. What legal status does a part-MER have for 10,000 flights according to the Minister? Is the required alternative balancing, which is required within the EIA legislation, part of the update that is now being made? Has the impact of all other routes, including the low connecting routes, also been assessed? As far as we are concerned, the EIA must be transferred from the base, including the alternatives without Lelystad. Is the Minister prepared to create a new integrated EIA? I was at a meeting last week with 300 concerned residents in Wezep. That municipality has a lot of nuisance in the prospect, even after the reclassification. Wezep has never been involved in participation and decision-making. The same unfortunately applies to Zwolle, Dalfsen and a lot of other municipalities. The Minister said in her first week: "The most important thing now is to restore confidence. That's a mark on one." After receiving the advice of the residents' delegation, she then told the press that 1 April 2019 is still the opening date. The National Ombudsman has also said today that participation has really been insufficient. I want the Minister to be clear this evening: will that opening date remain the guiding principle or will there finally be room for a careful process? Residents of duped provinces and municipalities should have the opportunity to speak and object to all the plans in question. Finally. I call on my fellow roommates to put care above speed. First, the reclassification of airspace, then a good study of safety and environmental and health impacts, and then a careful consultation process. For GroenLinks this is the test case of the new cabinet. How seriously does it take people, their concerns, nature and climate? I hope that the Minister will make these interests really more important than the interests and growth of Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u3	I have a question for Mrs Kröger. She's talking about the E.R. There is another motion by Mrs Kröger on the balancing of interests in the reclassification of airspace. I would very much like to know whether she is going to put that motion to the vote. Isn't she concerned with order, too? Is it asking for the EIA first or is it asking for the reclassification of airspace first? Can she say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u4	As far as we are concerned, the reclassification of airspace is the first step that needs to be taken. Right now, we're dealing with the low-fly routes. The one that's still a nuisance. No one knows how these planes will fly after the airspace is reorganised. You can't predict that, so right now you're creating an E.R. based on incomplete information, an air castle. As far as we are concerned, the first thing to do is to reorganise airspace, then really good research and really good participation and then decide on how and what to do with Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u5	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I had just forgotten to welcome Mr Cornielje, Commissioner of the King of the province of Gelderland. He's in the President's Lodge. I call Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u6	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a new commercial airport which has been lobbied for, but which is now being fiercely combated. The reason for the growing resistance to Lelystad Airport is very easy to understand and, in my group's view, can also be explained. There have been incredibly big mistakes, mistakes that should not have been made, mistakes that have brought confidence in the government down to a low point. It is up to us, the minister first, to restore that confidence. That starts with recognizing the problem. Not only are there mistakes made in the environmental impact assessment, partly on the basis of which it was decided in 2015 to expand Lelystad Airport. Because of these mistakes, residents and their governments who should have been involved in this have not been properly involved or simply not consulted at all. After all, the environmental impact assessment showed a range of nuisances which did not correspond to reality. Perhaps the biggest mistake in this list of errors is that the Ministry of IenM apparently did not have enough knowledge and skills to manage this process at all. This was made painfully clear by a waving Secretary of State, barely a week after her resignation. I don't want to dwell on the question of guilt now, but I do want to know one thing. How can it be that in the EIA it was based on a redistributed airspace, even though it was already known in 2014 that the airspace would not have been redistributed on 1 April 2018, at that time the scheduled opening date? Having said that, does D66 want to have the debate today mainly on the question: what now? What information do we have? What information are we missing? For all governments directly or indirectly involved in Lelystad Airport must now, as far as we are concerned, show in the first place, extra critically looking at the flight routes, the reclassification, the new EIA and all the data. Clarity is needed. We see this debate as an opportunity for this Minister to provide that clarity as far as possible. Because we all know that we simply don't have a lot of information yet. That is information that we clearly need in order to reach a balance as a Chamber. That is what we, as politicians in the House of Representatives on earth, are to do: to make considerations in the interests of the Netherlands on the basis of complete information. That is why I have the following set of questions to the Minister, first of all about the Lelystad Airport business case. Because until now it has remained rather underexplored. My group is curious what it would do with the business case if Lelystad did not grow into 10,000 flight movements in the first few years. What if we really kept flight movements to the absolute minimum until the reclassification of airspace is a fact? Then it is not no, but less lust and not no, but less burden. Is the Minister prepared to investigate those different scenarios and their impact on the business case? Once again, I read that there is absolutely no way to speed up the reclassification of airspace. Can the Minister explain this further, also because external parties such as EUROCONTROL claim that it is possible? And if it's so complicated, what guarantee can the Minister give? Can the reclassification not last six years but also nine years? By opening Lelystad, do airport charges apply to existing users, such as flight schools? Is it true that the Minister assumes that the flight schools will be moved to Teuge, where there are already two flight schools? Are the costs of temporary closure of National Paracentrum Teuge included in the Lelystad Airport business case? And if not, can the Minister include this in the business case investigation? Can the Minister confirm that a traffic distribution rule is conditional for opening Lelystad Airport as part of Schiphol's selectivity policy? Can the Minister indicate whether she has this rule ready in time? Finally. Can the Minister promise that it will be as transparent as possible? I mean that with retroactive effect. For example, can the original assignment to the Netherlands Air and Space Centre be made public about the flight profiles? Are all alternative flight routes also made public? So much for my questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you. I thought it was done, but it's just beginning. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u8	I have two questions for Mr Paternotte. The first question is: if it does not come out in good time, it will happen, we will have a certain delay from Lelystad, does Mr Paternotte then agree with me that this should be taken up by Schiphol, so that there should be more aircraft movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u9	No. In my view, we have a clear agreement on Schiphol with a limit of 500,000 flight movements and the principle that Schiphol can continue to grow from 2020, provided that these movements are cleaner and quieter and that this leads to less nuisance for residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u10	But Schiphol is gonna be full before 2020, as it now looks like. I tried to request a debate on this today. Then what's gonna happen? Lelystad isn't ready. Then where are we going with these flight movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u11	I think the problem at Schiphol Airport is different. Schiphol has indeed grown very fast in recent years, but that has also happened in the knowledge that there was a limit of 500,000 flight movements. For some time now, the policy that we are going to make room for additional flight movements after 2020 is based on very clear conditions, namely that it needs to be cleaner and quieter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u12	Mr Paternotte began his speech very fiercely and with a lot of emotion. That anger, those emotions are easy to understand and explain. We don't know much yet, but what we do know is that we have an E.R. full of errors and that we don't yet have a reclassification of airspace. We know those two things. So my question to Mr Paternotte is then whether he is linking the opening of Lelystad to the reclassification of airspace, like many municipalities and provincial authorities. Is that also an important starting point for D66 at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u13	You are quite right to say that we do not yet have a reclassification of airspace. In fact, we only had one day of a plan for the reclassification of airspace, while in 2008 it was already known that a reclassification was needed to allow Lelystad to grow in a good way. My group really thinks that this is an embarrassment of the government, a huge goal of its own, if only because in the Chamber not only my party but several parties have repeatedly insisted on speeding up the reclassification. I think you asked another question. It was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thanks for the answer. My question was whether, after this flaming speech, the D66 Group is linking the expansion of Lelystad to the reclassification of airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u15	You are quite right to say that there is an EIA with the current EIA that is incredibly wrong. Changes are now being made. We don't know them yet. In the end, the Commission will take action in favour of the M.e.r. to assess these adjustments. We believe that this should also be done, because the facts that are now on the table must be honest. That is why I also ask the Minister to provide maximum transparency, not only by making that information public, but also by ensuring that anyone who wants it can judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u16	Mr Paternotte is asking for the Minister's clarity this evening. I'm gonna need a little more clarity on D66. As far as I am concerned, this answer does not yet provide either. We have an E.R. that assumes a non-existent situation. We have an EIA that assumes less nuisance, but we do not know how much nuisance there will be after a redistributed airspace. Surely that should be enough for us as a Chamber to say that we made a decision in 2015 on the basis of incorrect, inadequate information and that airspace should first be redistributed? Only then can you create an EIA, because then you can map the environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u17	If I follow your reasoning, I can only conclude that we want to know which data is correct. These were assessed by the Commission for the m.e.r.? Did he do her job? Has he been able to send us any advice? Are we able to judge it correctly? It is very strange to make a new decision here on the basis of an incomplete E.R., in which things don't add up. I'd find that really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u18	Perhaps then the question to the D66 Group is whether it agrees with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and others that the EIA needs to be replaced in its entirety, with all the alternative weighting, and that this can only be done once the airspace has been reorganised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u19	The EIA is now being modified, from the idea that it can be made right. The Commission for the m.e.r. Then he's gonna take a look at it. It may come to the conclusion that the EIA should be transferred in full. If that is the case, that is a rather clear and serious advice to us as the House of Representatives. We are now looking at whether the EIA can be made right with adjustments and correcting all errors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u20	Mr Paternotte wants clarity. You're right. We also want clarity from Mr Paternotte. The cabinet parties have all said that Lelystad must open on 1 April 2019. Does Mr Paternotte still think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u21	No, I have heard colleagues from cabinet parties today say that there is no such thing as'must be open'. My colleague, Mr Dijkstra, has said that this is the starting point, that we are striving for it. That is also the current policy on which the House of Representatives has decided. But a situation has arisen because we have an environmental impact assessment of which Hoog Overrijssel has shown that it contains incredibly many errors that mean a lot to the process. What residents are involved? Are they really involved? What people aren't even involved who should have been involved? How do you correct those mistakes? What does that mean for the future? That's what's being looked at right now. Those records are coming out. After that, an independent committee is going to look into it, helping us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u22	So we find that 1 April 2019 is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u23	I think I just outlined a trial. It is not for nothing that we have conducted technical briefings together, on the basis of which we are now looking very critically. It doesn't make much sense if I'm going to speculate about that now. I wonder if that planning is feasible, because I have heard Secretary of State Dijksma say that if the routes are not available in mid-November, 1 April 2019 is not feasible. It is now more than mid-December and there are no flight routes. We read in a letter from the Minister that it will be January. That's two months later. That's much later. I therefore wonder whether this planning is feasible, but I believe that it is currently up to the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, thousands of people have taken action, we have received thousands of e-mails and more than 80,000 signatures have been sent under petitions from different action groups. Up there, in the bleachers, they're sitting. They are all opposed to the expansion of Lelystad Airport with low flight routes. But above all, there has been one action committee that is stuck in the figures and models of the Ministry. There was one action committee that was able to show that significant errors were made in the EIA around Lelystad Airport. I am, of course, talking about the High Overijssel Action Committee. This action committee has created a snowball effect. Local authorities, provincial authorities, even party congresses speak out against the way in which Lelystad Airport is now established. The municipality of Dronten even gets out of the Alderstable. The National Ombudsman agrees with the residents. He says that they have not been taken seriously and states that the government must be there for the citizen and not the other way around. The Association of Dutch Traffic Pilots assesses Dutch airspace as a complex and states that adding Lelystad Airport to the airspace increases the risk of accidents. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, there appears to be even more wrong. First, the former Secretary of State Dijksma who in a local talk show sketched a distraught picture of the knowledge and capacity present at the ministry. A month of experts in The Financial Dagblad get over that. They argue, on the basis of discussions with the sector, that the neoliberal VVD policy, aimed at as small a government as possible, has led to much loss of knowledge in the Ministry. Meanwhile, we have fallen through the lower limit and the Ministry leans on important decisions at external consulting offices. The SP therefore finds it staggering that the Minister states that all these alarm bells have no impact on the EIA assessment and its due diligence. How could it have gotten so far that an EIA has been created with wrong data and that a group of volunteers exposes it? In its letter of 23 November, the Minister states that it is shaping additional commitment and capacity, as well as additional knowledge in the Ministry. How is she going to shape this process? What is this minister going to do to ensure that the ministry regains its credibility? Mr. Chairman. For the SP it's clear. If we want to restore the confidence of the inhabitants, then this minister will have to get to work. You don't do that by pushing through a prestige project to relieve Schiphol by moving heaven and earth to get 2% of the flights to Lelystad. It is clear to friends and enemies that the airspace needs to be reorganised. Only then will it be clear what the effect is on the routes and whether aircraft can actually fly higher. As far as we are concerned, the EIA needs to be completely renewed. With that information, we can look again at the Lelystad Airport Decision. I have heard the Minister say a number of times that she has an assignment from the Chamber and carries it out. Then let us give the Minister a hand. Let us draw a line on this careless decision and postpone the decision on the extension of Lelystad until the airspace is re-classified, as many residents, municipalities, provinces, entrepreneurs and environmental organisations want. For we are there for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u26	A question to Mr Laçin: does the SP also see benefits at Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u27	Locally there are certain benefits. It is widely measured that the Lelystad provides employment, but we are here in this Parliament to look at national interest, not only at local interest but also at national interest. Then we see that many jobs will be lost on the Veluwe in many places. Paracentrum Teuge was already mentioned by Mr Paternotte. If we look at the national interest, we find Lelystad Airport in this capacity a very bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u28	How does Mr Laçin reflect on his own SP department in Lelystad and Flevoland? I quote: "All in all, we expect the expansion of Lelystad Airport to generate more than a thousand new jobs, mainly on Larserpoort industrial site. A huge stimulus of the Flevoland economy." Can you put that in a province with high unemployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u29	I think that's exactly what I just said. I understand the local interest very well. It is a celebration for democracy in this country that local departments can take different positions. You know, if it's all right, all of it, because many local CDA departments also say they're in favour of reorganising the airspace and extending it afterwards. You also take a different view at national level, and in this sense, local and national differences may differ. We are talking to our department about it, but here we are taking a national position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u30	Thank you very much. I will go to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD. Mr. Dijkstra, I thought you'd bring all those files.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u31	They're in my head, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u32	They're in your head? Well, you have four minutes for it. Mr Remco Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From Schiphol the world is open to you. You can fly to more than 300 destinations worldwide, whether it's for a business trip to Bangkok or a family holiday to Southern Portugal. Thanks to aviation, tens of thousands of Dutch people earn a good living, but that is not self-evident. Lelystad Airport is needed to relieve Schiphol. Schiphol can handle much more air traffic itself, but now we have an environmental limit of 500,000 flight movements that we will achieve next year. So there is now a lock at Schiphol Airport and Lelystad Airport is a solution to relieve Schiphol. At the same time, President, we see people on the Veluwe and in Overijssel who are concerned about the nuisance of the currently planned flight routes towards Lelystand, now that they have become known. They are reinforced by the doubts that have arisen about the environmental impact assessment. If Lelystad cannot open on the scheduled date, the development of the Netherlands will stop and damage our country. Mr. Chairman. If we look back at what has happened in recent years, I regret to say that much has gone wrong. I went through all the debate reports once again. They are lying there on my desk and all the yellow notes are comments from spokesmen, not only from the VVD but from all parties, who have constantly asked the responsible Secretary of State: is it ready in time? Has the airspace been re-arranged in time? What about the capacity? Can they get there in a minute? How'd it go? What do you need? And every time there came injuring answers: yes, that will be well; don't worry. The only milestones I could see were the Alders opinion from 2008, the 2012 Airspace Vision and the formal airport decision in 2015. But in between there for years is a huge hole in which there was actually a standstill. Very little has been done about the reclassification of airspace and the VVD very much resents the previous Secretary of State of the PvdA House for letting things go. It appears that for years nothing has been done and when choices had to be made, the bird had flown. And this new VVD minister must try to solve the misery of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u34	I heard about a previous Secretary of State of the Labour Party. I actually have a rather simple question to ask Mr Dijkstra, because, given the whole pile on his desk, he is walking around here a little longer. Where has the VVD been for seven years? In my memory, the VVD was in the cabinet. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u35	Our airmen Mrs Neppérus, Mrs De Caluwé, Mr Elias and Mrs Visser have constantly and over and over again taken those yellow notes, because then you can see exactly what you are asking: what is the situation with Lelystad? What's the progress? Mrs. Mansveld, Secretary of State, what do you need to get it done? Mrs Dijksma, Secretary of State, tell me, is it ready in time? And every time the answer was: well, it doesn't go that fast, because Schiphol has enough room until 2020. Then at once the economy attracts and we are at once with the fried pears because Schiphol is locked and the landing in Lelystad cannot be properly regulated. I really blame the Secretary of State for that, because now we have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u36	Really a disappointing response from the country's largest party, for about seven years now in power here in this country. The only analysis Mr Dijkstra can make is to blame others. I don't think it's crying, and I don't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u37	Mr President, I can conclude that the PvdA has made a radical turn since it joined the opposition and is now shifting all responsibility away. When real choices have to be made, the bird has flown and the PvdA turns completely to "only those residents." As a Labour Party, you can also have the decency to wait and see what the users come up with, which Defense comes up with. You can also think about solutions, but that doesn't happen over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u38	Last time. One word, or a few words from Mr Dijkstra, indicates the problem of the VVD: 'only those residents'. Just the residents? Yes! That is a very important voice for us, and it should be for you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u39	I have spoken to the alderman of Lelystad, of PvdA house, who is very disappointed in his own party and who really finds it special that the Labour Party is running like this, before all the information is on the table. He's really upset about that. I can only agree with that and I understand his frustration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u40	Mr President, in order to get a little away from the party political discussions that we are having here, however keen they are, I would like to return to the constitutional responsibilities. Mr Dijkstra is right to point out that Secretary of State did not ensure that the agreements on the redevelopment of airspace were complied with. We cannot write that on the person of the Secretary of State and not on the party of the Secretary of State. We have ministerial responsibility, so that is just the Dutch government. Does Mr Dijkstra therefore draw the consequence that this error must be corrected before further steps can be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u41	We've all been there, we all have our own responsibility. We have been constantly working on this, but apparently we have been reassured with soothing words and now we have a problem that we have to solve with each other. Then I won't run away from my responsibility, no, then I'll talk to the people and then I'll see where the solutions lie. Then I'm going to talk to the Minister and to the Defense Department to see if we can't spare the cores, for example. Can't we redesign certain things so that the nuisance is less? But we have to take responsibility for this. I note that one party that had responsibility for this is throwing the towel right now and is not prepared to look at solutions, and I find that very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u42	Then I would like to put my second question to a clarification. This means that for you that date or year 2019 is not sacred when it comes to Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u43	Mr President, holy or not, and discuss this with Mr Bishop? It's gonna be complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u44	Yes, yes, I object to my name, I admit that immediately, but you can quietly confess to me. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u45	The goal is of course still 1 April 2019, let there be no misunderstanding. Why? Also because the problems at Schiphol Airport are big and that landing is really necessary. But sacred or not, we have to do it carefully. We need to be transparent in this and we need to take advantage of the opportunities that exist. Perhaps there are also partial solutions towards that redistributed airspace, which will not arrive until 2023. Maybe we can take steps in that right now. Maybe we can spare the living cores. Maybe we can get the people, even if it's complicated, a little bit on our side by thinking with them step by step and letting them participate in it. That's the responsibility we have to take, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u46	Mr Dijkstra is already making a bit of a point, because my question is how he sees that we can take steps if we have not first reorganised that airspace. On what basis do we make an E.R.? After all, we do not know if these escape routes are still the same. Can he clarify that? That does not make sense to me, because I think it really has to be in the right order of step one and then step two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u47	The airport decision has been taken. There was an E.R. It's all about the routes now. Well, technically, we're not E.R.-related, but we did, and I think that's a good thing. We've now had the input of the neighbors. We've had 6,600 letters, objections and insertions. We've now asked the users as well. Last night, the Ministry presented a plan of action to involve people in the revision of airspace, which is, of course, essential and what everyone wants as soon as possible. All these things together, all those advices from users, from Defence et cetera, we are about to present to the independent Commission for the m.e.r. It actually takes that over, involves the actualizations and is going to revisit the recovered errors. That must then be the result of a judgment. That's black, white or gray. It's okay, it's either bad or it's somewhere in between. I hope that we will get a clear opinion on this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u48	Mr. Remco Dijkstra gave a nice timeline from 2008 to now. He was able to mention three milestones, but he also mentioned a great deal of stagnation over the past few years. It took us nine years, but until 1 April 2019 we have about fifteen months. If we have to take so many steps to get the EIA back on track, perhaps to change the airport decision and to regain the confidence of residents and action groups in the ministry, is it possible to take all these steps within 15 months, when we have actually stopped for almost nine years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u49	The most complicated thing is to regain people's trust, to restore the communication that went wrong. It happened with the best intentions, but it didn't go well. There was a lot of unrest about it. I think that is right, and I understand that very well. Reclaiming trust isn't gonna happen in 15 months. Well, you can take the people in the steps. Fortunately, most people also see the importance of Lelystad Airport, but want the routes not to go over their head or that they have as little nuisance as possible. They're not against the airport. They sometimes fly themselves and like it too. They just want as little nuisance as possible. I think that's a legitimate reason. Now let's work together to see where improvements are conceivable. The beauty of the action groups HoogOverijssel and HoogoverWezep is that there is a lot of expertise in those people who actually help us. That's good. Get them involved and make people co-responsible. People are really willing to do that, but they just want to know what they're up to. They're entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u50	Thank you. You were ready, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u51	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u52	Oh, excuse me! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u53	I wasn't even halfway there! Mr. Chairman. The VVD aims to achieve sustainable growth of aviation and avoid nuisance as much as possible. That is why I demand a careful process, open and transparent, with understanding for the residents, who are rightly concerned. I therefore find the recent unrest in the region very understandable. Rightly or not, a lot has gone wrong in communication. We need to recognise that and we need to be able to learn from it. Fortunately, most people are not against Lelystad Airport at all, but simply want adequate information and care. Residents are always a factor to take seriously into account and involve. What can the Minister do to further involve these people in the process and gradually regain their trust, as far as possible? Is that even possible? And what guarantees can the Minister give that Lelystad will open on 1 April 2019? How can we avoid routes on residential cores such as Wezep? Perhaps an experience flight is also an idea, as was recently suggested by some of my colleagues, so that you can separate facts from fiction and so that people can experience it for themselves. Finally, an IT project is under way for the reclassification of airspace. What guarantees do we have that this will be followed carefully? Will ICT testing also play a role in this? It wouldn't do us any good if we said it could be ready by 2023, but it would have an IT problem. Then we're further away from home. We really need to avoid that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I mentioned it years ago: a parliamentary survey was carried out by this dossier. I think it's gonna happen someday. Maybe I'm gonna go through that myself. In principle, as a spokesman, I have always been very pro-air travel and also for all airports, also in view of the national interest, e.g. the Netherlands, but also for our own citizens who use it, which reduces borders, increases trade, you name it all. We are talking about the environmental impact report, the EIA, but we have often been misinformed, not only with false information about calculations, noise and so on, but also about the support of the airlines. I remember very well that I had a debate here, two more Secretary of State for this Minister. It was simply denied that there was no support under the airlines for Lelystad Airport. That was denied while I was in contact with all those airlines. They all said, "We don't want it." I knew by then that the information was not pure. I am very sorry as a member of the States General. We hold the highest office here, but we need to be able to rely on the information we get and on people as well. Indeed, an action committee has helped us. We all have one employee and some parties may have two per Member of Parliament, but that's what you have to do with. The HoogOverijssel Action Committee has assisted us, because it is impossible for you to find out everything yourself. That is impossible for one MP and one policy officer. We have never, by definition, opposed the development of Lelystad Airport. We warned consistently and consistently about the problems that have arisen only years ago. I've always repeated it. You can check the Acts. I've always said the same thing, and it's come true. Then I was laughed at by everyone and no one supported my motions, but now we're stuck with the fried pears. This morning, I advised my group to really make a pass on the spot, to stand on the brakes because of what is happening now. We can expand Schiphol. 600,000 is an apple and an egg. Schiphol can even grow to 800,000. We're gonna spread the problem too much. I read in an e-mail that millions of people are about to be disturbed, while it was already centered around Schiphol. We shouldn't want it all like this. Schiphol is at the border. I tried to request a debate this morning or this afternoon. That is also the e.g. the Netherlands. Schiphol's gonna get in trouble. I'm going to predict it. I've been doing that for years. Still, we're not gonna move. I'm really sorry about that, too. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Is the Minister prepared to allow more flights to Schiphol until Lelystad is ready? In principle, Lelystad would be completely superfluous. In the plans I've always submitted here, Lelystad wouldn't have been necessary at all. Now it may be a parliamentary survey, a new Betuweline debacle. We'll all see. This morning, or this afternoon, I'm sorry, the time goes so fast, Lelystad entrepreneurs were angry with me: millions have already been invested. But I've always been the one who said, "Don't do it." I've always warned you about that. We want clarity as soon as possible. As I said earlier, I advised my group this morning to wait for a new reclassification of airspace with associated connecting routes before giving the green light from our group. Possibly a majority decides otherwise. For us the solution is indeed: let Schiphol grow. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. Like other MPs, I serve the national interest, e.g. the Netherlands. Schiphol and KLM are among the largest private employers with mutually reinforcing social and financial-economic interests. We can use jobs simultaneously at Schiphol Airport: from one plus one and one plus two to two plus two. We can also allow them to fly a little longer or leave a little earlier. I have to stop, Madam President. I understand that a motion by Mr Laçin will be put to the vote. He is going to ask that the development of Lelystad Airport should not take place earlier: calls on the government to ensure that additional movements to and from Lelystad do not take place until after the airspace has been reorganised. I am prepared to support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u57	Can I ask you one more question? It says "limited to a minimum." I think that's kind of weird, because what's a minimum? What means a minimum to you is not much to me. You might find one fly in the soup a lot, and I don't care. So we need to figure that out, so that we can put it more clearly. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u59	Can I still respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u60	Yes, you may respond to it. That motion has not yet been tabled, but Mr Graus knows about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u61	We are also discussing possible motions with Mr Graus, and my motion has already been tabled, but has been detained. I will certainly think about it and come back to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u63	Thank you. If you don't mind my comment. "Minimum" always hits me. There are people who go to live at a farm and then start whining that they are suffering from flies and smelling urine and stool. Yeah, well, then you shouldn't be living at a farm. That's why I'm saying that at Schiphol was already a certain nuisance. It's already there for people. There's always trouble. But now we're gonna spread it too much. But what's a minimum? If you'll clarify that, I'm grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u64	I have listened carefully to Mr Graus' speech. What do we say to the people at Schiphol if there are extra flights there, when there are agreements to at least not do so for the time being?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u65	I've said that several times. I think I've repeated it twice or three times, for the elderly among us and so on. I made it clear that Schiphol can grow to 600,000 very quickly. It's possible. Then we don't need Lelystad and that shit at all. Then we wouldn't be spreading this nuisance across a whole part of the Netherlands, over provinces, municipalities and residential centres. I have also said for years that these motions have unfortunately not been supported by the VVD and that we can use simultaneous use of jobs. They've already gone from one plus one to one plus two and two plus one, but you can also do two plus two. In that respect, the wheel has already been invented. Schiphol can grow, easily, up to 800,000 flight movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u67	Really, Madam President, a child can do the laundry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u69	Mr. Chairman. It's stormy on the Veluwe and in the Salland. In Hattem, in Wezep, in Zwolle and in Dalfsen. From Stavoren to Ede. It's stormy. It is good that we can now debate Lelystad with the new Minister of Aviation, because since her arrival errors in the EIA calculations have come to light and there has been a lack of expertise and manpower in the Ministry for many years. I look forward to the Minister's answers, because we really need more information. I simply lack objective and honest information, flawless information, in order to arrive at good decision-making. But even more so, I look forward to informing the region, because from the Ministry it remained deafeningly silent, especially for the places mentioned. What steps will the Minister take to restore the severely damaged confidence of the people in the region in its ministry? The mistakes made in the EIA calculations are serious, and is it really the reverse world that citizens have to correct government for miscalculations and wrong input? Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. Those mistakes need to be looked at in depth, and it needs to be really different, better, transparent and error-free from now on. I ask the Minister what the follow-up steps are. Can we trust that data, input and calculations will now be public and verifiable? Will the Minister disclose all additional EIA data and also provide insight into the data of the different flight profiles, including those of routes A, A+ and B? In the newspaper I read that the Red de Veluwe Foundation found that the Ministry has infringed a European directive by drafting the EIA of Lelystad Airport only for Flevoland and not for the larger part of the Netherlands where the airport has effect. I ask the Minister whether the European directive is being complied with in this process. Does this also apply to the approach of the Ministry, where it now seems as if for each piece a licence is applied for? How does the Minister respond to the hard opinion of the National Ombudsman? Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union, besides the temporary low flight routes, there are three very big problems in the current plans, bottlenecks that are difficult to digest. First of all, the cruising flight routes, which bring the planes low across Zwolle Stadshagen. Secondly, the approach route near Wezep. Why exactly is this route going straight over a residential core and to what extent has the calculations taken into account the correct engine power, given the fact that aircraft are going to rise there or just after and also make a bend? And third, Ede, where a pile of flight routes is at risk of taking place. How does the situation in these three places become? And what are we going to know about what we don't know now when the additional EIA calculations come in February? Mr. Chairman. The simulations during the residents' nights raised a lot of protests. And former Secretary of State Dijkstra promised me in an earlier debate that she was open to the idea of a pilot flight. Please show the people in the region once and experience exactly what 1,800 meters or 2,700 meters mean. Will the Minister ensure that an experience flight can be organised in January or February? Finally, I come to the approach to the airspace review. I understand that it will be technically very difficult to bring forward this review in time. But what is in that plan of action the exact moment when you know what the revised airspace is going to look like? In short, at what point can you make EIA calculations and count on the revised airspace? At what point can you see the permanent situation as it will arise after 2023? Because before you open Lelystad you also want to know whether the airport is viable at all and how the routes run. And what's the minimum business case until then? Can you also slow Lelystad's growth down to the moment of airspace review? And what exactly does the plan of action and those partial solutions contained in it mean for the EIA calculations? Are they gonna turn out a lot better? Mr President, I shall conclude. Lelystad Airport will of course be there, but under our conditions as established here in the Chamber. And for the Christian Union, the date of opening is not a run race. The airspace review should take place as soon as possible and there should be as little unnecessary nuisance as possible. And checking whether all the calculations are done properly is no longer enough. From now on, every step together with the region will have to be taken at a pace and in a way that will help to regain acceptance in the region. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u70	I welcome the call for care really as a basis for the process. If you really want to do it methodologically carefully, you first need to know what the effects of the final situation are. The intended final situation for Lelystad Airport is a final situation of 45,000 flights. At the moment we do not know the effects because the airspace has not been reorganised. Does my colleague from the Christian Union share the analysis that you need to have that airspace reclassification before you can carefully outline the intended final situation and do that EIA adequately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u71	I think we'll find each other in the idea that you can only fly in a revised airspace if you know what it looks like and if you've done an EIA calculation that meets those requirements of a redistributed airspace. If you do E.R. calculations on an unrecharted airspace, or you do E.R. calculations that are limited in scope, then you can fly only limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u72	Thank you. Oh, Mrs Kröger wants to respond again. This is your last interruption, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u73	I'm just going to spend it on Mr Bruins, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u74	To Mr. Bruins, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u75	Absolutely. Because what Mr Bruins is describing here is exactly the direction it is taking with the E.R. and this is exactly my great fear. This is the infamous salami tactics. The Council of State has said that it is not allowed. European directives say: it cannot be done. In that direction it is being cut up. In addition, it says: well, we do 10,000 first, then we go to 25,000 then we go to 45,000. The point at the EIA is precisely that you are reviewing the intended final situation. And that final situation for Lelystad Airport is an airport for 45,000 flights. We don't know the intended final situation. So what consequence does Mr Bruins attach to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u76	Indeed, in my text, I have just called for attention to be paid to the approach of the Ministry, where it seems that there is a request for a permit for each piece. I will leave the word'salami tactics' with Mrs Kröger for a moment, because there is a value judgment in it that I do not want to give at the moment. But I am very concerned about this, precisely because of the European directives. That is why I want a good answer from the Minister. For it is really crucial for the Christian Union to fly within borders, within all the rules we have agreed on and within an EIA that has been calculated flawlessly and correctly. It cannot be that we agree to open an airport that does not comply with the rules we agree with here in this country. In order to properly assess whether it complies with all the rules, I need much more information, including information that will come to us in the coming months. We will study them very thoroughly, and on that basis we will see whether or not we can. And if it can't, it can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u78	Thank you, Mr President. We say enough is enough. Whoever looks from a distance at the inimitable decision-making in this headache file loses all confidence in the cabinet immediately. And rightly so. The sector governs aviation policy and the responsible ministry did not even have the necessary expertise to control it, let alone direct it. As a result: growth, growth, growth. In September, the summit in Schiphol was still marked by the large-scale presentation of the latest enlargement plans, while the decision-making process has yet to take place. Unthoughtful and clumsy, the then cabinet judged mild. You could say you're arrogant and outrageous. A quote: "Further growth is considered to be given. The question of what this means for safety has not played a role to date." This is what the Security Research Council said earlier this year. By constantly adapting to adaptation, security around the airports is seriously at stake, according to the OVV. Around Schiphol there are up to thirteen times more serious incidents than around other airports, as it turned out yesterday in the AD. Growth above all else, resulting in Schiphol being too full, and as a result municipalities and provinces are now being cut off to open Lelystad Airport as landing airport. What is the impact of this on airspace safety? Of course, we think, this minister is not ignoring the reports of the OVV. Is she also willing to have this mapped out, for example by the ILT? Mr. Chairman. The old adage of the Rutte I, II and III Cabinets in a strong market is also so outdated. The stronger the market, the stronger the government must be. That's the new story. The government is undressed and emaciated. What a sad story, I say especially to the VVD. Luckily, there's the citizen. Without the use of the highly combative action groups such as HoogOverijssel, we might not even have had this debate. There had to be an action group to check what the government had done, correct and expose market power. That's government forsaken, isn't it? Isn't that forsaking from us the way we're sitting here? I'm gonna take a look at the CDA, too. The CDA looks back and nods yes very well! Mr. Chairman. The growth of aviation has a major impact on the living environment, not only in terms of noise and air pollution for people but also for the protected nature areas near Lelystad Airport. These areas are protected for a reason. The senseless and scandalous slaughter of geese around Schiphol can and must not happen around Lelystad. If natural values are negative as a result of fauna management plans, the province cannot approve them. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The expected growth and supporters of the short-term economic interests, who want to achieve this, I say, make climate goals impossible, says Paul Peeters of TU Delft. No technical or financial measure is going to compensate for this, he concludes. The results of this investigation have not yet been contradicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u79	In Flevoland are also the Oostvaardersplassen. We're not flying over that for a variety of reasons. But I look forward to Mr Van Raan's opinion on this. Is the protection of geese more important than the people living on the Veluwe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u80	As usual, the VVD manages to sketch a beautiful false dilemma. It's like it's between geese and people. That is not the case. There's gotta be less flying. That's the solution. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish up and put the glasses back on. The blind focus on growth is no longer sustainable. It is not yet another enlargement, but it is precisely a shrinkage of aviation that is needed. And instinctively everyone also feels that, if a return ticket to Barcelona is less expensive than a one-way ticket from here to Eindhoven, €20.30 that something is wrong somewhere. So we're in control of some of it ourselves. In order to achieve the climate targets, aviation has to reduce to 300,000 flight movements per year, according to the same research by TU Delft. That's the starting point, and then you can go ahead and see what the possibilities are. We'd like to hear how the Minister is going to process this in her announced Aviation Note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u82	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of November I became CDA spokesman for the aviation portfolio. Since then, my mailbox has been flooded with messages about Lelystad Airport. Many people are very involved in the question of how to shape the enlargement of Lelystad Airport. I have therefore tried to get as much clarity as possible by asking written questions, by pressing with others for hearings, round tables and technical briefings, but also by hearing those involved in rooms. In Wezep, Apeldoorn, Lelystad, Zwolle. It lives in all those places. It also lives with the council members, aldermen and spokesmen of action groups. They're struggling with this file. And everyone says no one's against Airport Lelystad. After all these conversations, I realize very well what concerns people. Many people care about noise pollution and their night's sleep. They now have barely flying planes and then every new plane is of course a reduction in the pleasure of living. I also spoke to people who are concerned about employment, whether it is on the Veluwe with tourism, or in the province of Flevoland, where there is relatively high unemployment. As a result, I have received a different picture of opponents and opponents, each with their own interest and their own perspective. Mr. Chairman. Many things have gone wrong in this Lelystad file, too many, on trial and on content. According to the CDA, there is a messy process, in which careless action has been taken, which makes people feel passed. In fact, they've passed. There's also a waste of time, which means we're stuck in a time trap right now. The Minister inherits that careless process from her predecessor and will have to make substantial adjustments to manage everything properly. We would like to hear a brief overview from the Minister of all the errors found. Can the Minister also state what she has done to correct these mistakes? At Eindhoven there is a very close relationship with military air traffic. Air force and vacation flights are even at one airport. Our impression is that that goes very well together and that there are no problems with crossing traffic in the different air layers. Can we compare Lelystad with Eindhoven, for example? What about the talks with the Defense Department on the use of airspace? Is there a view that there will temporarily be extra space from that side? Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked before, but we would like to ask once again to speed up the reclassification of high airspace. All the time we can make is good for the environment. Isn't there any other options? We would also like to hear how the Minister will involve the co-governments and residents. What's in this? And is it being implemented like a big bang or still in phases? Mr. Chairman. Lelystad Airport, together with Eindhoven Airport, has to take over part of Schiphol airport's traffic. Schiphol can't grow unbridled. In this way, a balance has been sought between the national importance of mainport Schiphol for e.g. the Netherlands and its viability in the Schiphol region. The CDA considers it very important to invest now in employment in the Flevoland region. There's a lot of unemployment there. Selecting planes will be another tricky puzzle. With our conviction, it is only the question where easyJet and Ryanair go. What is the Minister's view on this? How is the Minister going to operationalise selectivity policy and what role will the Chamber play in this? Mr. Chairman. We do believe, however, that disturbing mistakes have been made in the process so far. The errors detected in the EIA were shameful. Such mistakes should not be made in such processes. Does the Minister share that thought? We also believe that the Minister should devote extra time and energy to restoring the broken relationship. We want residents to regain confidence in their approach. Not everyone will be enthusiastic about all the decisions, but they must have faith in the way the government communicates with the residents. What has the Minister done so far to restore confidence, the legacy of her predecessor? Finally. There is also uncertainty about the mandate and role of provincial directors. What's the deal with that, exactly? Do they have that role and can they do it well? We would like the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to be taken into account. Wait and see. Then we shall continue the debate. We want to have the right information in our hands so that we can take follow-up decisions that have been carefully prepared and that all different interests can be carefully weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u83	Mr Laçin, last question. Sorry, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u84	I think I have two more, but let's not argue about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear from the CDA, Mr Amhaouch, that a careless process has been followed, that people have passed and that shameful mistakes have been made. Linked to that, I like to hear what the CDA itself thinks. What are the views of the CDA itself on this process, also in view of the many motions in the municipalities and provinces? They were often co-supported by the CDA in those provinces and municipalities. What link does the CDA group in the Lower House make with this? Because these local motions all say: first redeploy the airspace and then expand Lelystad. There is also the signature of the CDA very often underneath. What does Mr Amhaouch think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u85	I will answer all four of Mr Laçin's questions. It is important that our own representatives of the people in the region, in the province of Oporto, do not matter whether that is Gelderland, Overijssel or Flevoland. They represent the people at municipal but also at provincial level. They must do so, but it is important that those provincial directors are connected to the table and talk and decide with it. That's how we're in it. The Minister had an administrative consultation with the provinces yesterday. I see the provinces also represent the municipalities. The meeting continues, I understand. I would also like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this. That is why we are asking what mandate the provinces and that table have. And we support that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u86	In a previous debate on natural gas in Groningen, I had an interesting journey of discovery with Mr Mulder to the priority of the concept of security. We agreed together that safety is the highest good, for everything, in fact, for the citizen as well. I was trying to get that involved in aviation. Then Mrs Mulder rightly said: I am not the spokesperson, so I do not feel comfortable with that. She had a good point. Now we have the spokesperson in front of us. I assume he also shares that safety is the highest good. Then I wonder how we are looking at the report of the Safety Research Council, which says without delay: do a number of things first, including, for example, the reclassification of airspace, and then talk about enlargement. Is that shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u87	I do not know if Mr Van Raan is confusing two things. I am aware of the report by the OVV which says something about safety at Schiphol Airport, namely that safety at Schiphol Airport is not at stake, that Schiphol Airport is a safe airport, but that we must ensure that safety at Schiphol Airport is erosion and that we must take all measures to improve safety continuously. If we're going to reflect at Lelystad Airport, then of course security is one of the preconditions we're going to operate on. We ask the Minister not to take any steps to bring about a careful process. The time needed for this is necessary. We ask the Minister to inform us in February or March about the feasibility of 1 April 2019. We're not skipping steps. If we've taken the wrong steps, we'll do it again, extra. Safety is one of them, but of course also the noise nuisance for residents in both Gelderland and Overijssel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u88	Fine, thank you for the answer. I note that according to the CDA, aviation safety is one of the issues. That seems to me to be a very worrying conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u89	Mr President, may I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u90	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u91	Safety is a priority both on the road and on the track and in the air, so I do not know where Mr Van Raan is going with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u92	I have two questions to ask Mr Amhaouch about this safety. First of all: what do you find the biggest error found in the EIA? My second question is: in view of the fact that there are so many mistakes, do you think that now that we are making these adjustments, which need to be tested independently? I am talking not only about the input data, but also about the calculations underlying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u93	The most important mistake that has been made is not that there is a number of errors, for example about the thrust or the height. What scares me is the security in those processes, the checks-and-balances. That's what we heard in the briefing. That was a confidential briefing from which I cannot quote, but on which I can make a general comment. How do we ensure the checks-and-balances in these careful procedures? Today it may be a figure about the thrust, tomorrow it will be about the height and the day after tomorrow it may be something else. That is a very important task for the Ministry. It must have the right people and the right expertise on board to ensure that these mistakes are prevented. Your second question was... I need your help, Mr. Paternotte. I think it was about the double check, the counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u95	I think the Minister has said something about this, but I would like to reflect on that. I read in the letter that there are two external parties who will check the accuracy of the calculations. I'll wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u96	It is true that the Minister writes that, but she does not write that she also wants to do a counter-expertise on the calculations. The two external offices mentioned in the letter are precisely the two offices that originally prepared the environmental impact assessment on behalf of the Schiphol Group. Can you tell me to what extent these agencies are independent now that we have to correct the errors in the environmental impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u97	Are you asking me that question or through me to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u98	No, I'll set it right up with you. I already gave it to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u99	Okay. I would also like to reflect on that in a moment. If these offices are expert... Again, care is available to us. That is the starting point. I think it's hard for the Minister to choose two agencies that don't have the expertise to do those checks. If that is the case, then we would like to hear it from the Minister. The Minister's on the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u100	I hear my colleague talking very loudly about careful steps. I appreciate that, but I still want to ask the CDA the same question as the VVD. If you take careful steps, wouldn't you have to redistribute the airspace first, so you know what the exact routes are after that? Then you can do an E.R. I would nevertheless like to have a reflection on how the CDA sees this care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u101	I think you can disconnect those two. If we're talking about deadlines, I think we should have put a deadline on that in the past. There would have been a reclassification by now. It's sad enough already. My colleague Van Helvert and a number of other colleagues have already asked questions about this on a number of occasions. When is this airspace reclassification coming? Are these two connected? You can also fly in an unfinished airspace. That's why I just asked the minister if it's gonna be a big scare or if it's gonna be in stages. But the question, which Mr Bruins also asked, is: does it fit into the legal standards and into the European directive? We've made agreements about this in this country, and that's where you have to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u102	Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u103	And...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u104	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u105	And, of course, that is what I say in my input, too, where a plane has ever flown, will always be a nuisance, whether it has flown at 2,000 meters or at 3,000 meters altitude. You'll notice something about that. We're not gonna tell people there won't be any trouble, because then we're gonna talk people to the mouth, and that's not what the CDA is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u106	I would like to continue on Mr Paternotte's point about counter-expertise. In my contribution I said that I would be happy if all the data, all the calculations, all the input were also public. We have seen in recent months that action groups, citizens and civil experts have contributed enormously to the emergence of mistakes. Now I know Mr. Amhaouch as someone who, like me, is beta and comes from the research world. In the research world, open data is quite normal. Would Mr Amhaouch support my call to leave everything open so that there is not only counter-expertise but everyone can check that the calculations are correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u107	Certainly at this stage, I think that should be possible, regardless of whether there are any other things that would stop that. But the intention that you open that is there. I would like to go a little further: because we have had problems with communication, whether with citizens' parties or with directors, I would also like to see proper reporting of these consultations so that we can do so transparently. Because everyone has been helped to ensure that it happens carefully. We want to go to an opening in 2019. This can only be done with care and transparency, otherwise we will get the boomerang back and we will be even more years away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u109	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we talk about Lelystad Airport again as a room. Several colleagues have already said: the reason is, of course, the unrest that has arisen about the environmental impact assessment, about the effects of flights from Lelystad on parts of the North and East Netherlands from 2019. Mr. Chairman. Mistakes have been made; misconceptions made and miscalculations made. It has been decided immediately to adapt the EIA to those parts so that it correctly reflects the real situation and effects. The Minister has sent us a letter on this; thank you for that. But the unrest surrounding the Lelystad Airport to be opened with the aim of taking over part of Schiphol's passenger flight is deeper than just the E.R. Only correcting assumptions, figures and current regulations does not give people the certainty that their living and living environment is not disproportionately affected by noise and emissions. People want to make sure that they can live safely and quietly, that their interests are handled carefully. Therefore, it is important that environmental and noise standards are handled carefully, but also the concerns people have about the quality of their immediate living environment. Many of the inhabitants of the region that would be affected by air traffic have, in recent times, worked with determination and good organisation to bring their concerns to the attention of the public. But not only that: the inhabitants have also thought along. In order to give the interests and ideas of residents a serious and fair chance, the Chamber adopted a motion in October. This motion asked for a careful involvement of residents in this process and to ensure participation and ideas on a future reclassification of airspace. The report of the residents' committee that emerged from this, another noise, was sent to us by the Minister at the beginning of December. The advice is clear: first get the airspace in order before we expand Lelystad airport. An advice from residents to which my group attaches great importance. After all, as a Chamber, we have asked for it by motion. This advice from residents is a serious signal that we cannot ignore. My group therefore calls for this opinion to be adopted. In such a far-reaching process, it is sometimes really necessary to make a pass on the spot and to ensure that we get people on a careful and joint journey, while ensuring the preservation of a pleasant and liveable living environment. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the reclassification can be made faster than in 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u110	Mr Van Dijk had a brief discussion with Mr Dijkstra on the previous cabinet. The Labour Party was in the cabinet eight weeks ago, and five weeks ago you did indeed change your position. Eight weeks ago, you strongly supported Lelystad Airport as soon as possible and five weeks ago you turned 180 degrees. That was so fast, I think Max Verstappen is jealous of the Labour Party. What was the reaction of your group colleague Sharon Dijksma when you announced that in the group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u111	That's a nice comparison with Max Verstappen, well-educated too, but we care about more than that. We are concerned with more than just the political game we are playing. I would like to look back at the period in which the Labour Party was in the cabinet, because that is what Mr Paternotte is actually asking for. The then Secretary of State came to know at once that there were false assumptions and miscalculations in the environmental impact report and she immediately intervened. She informed the Chamber and she also decided with the Chamber to involve the residents directly. It seems to be the question of who is to blame here, but we all had to rely on a report, as did the Secretary of State. When it turned out that it wasn't good, she intervened with the Chamber. We said at the time: we are going to involve the residents seriously. We also received advice from them. Just as Mr Paternotte probably has a good group meeting, so do we. With that advice in hand we have decided that we are not against Lelystad Airport that has not changed, because that is important for the Netherlands but that this can only be with support and as little nuisance as possible. We have spoken with many residents, action groups and experts. We have come to the conclusion that we must first classify, reclassify the airspace before we can fly at Lelystad Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u112	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u113	It is of course total money laundering what you are doing here, Mr Van Dijk: the Secretary of State says under heavy pressure from the House of Representatives in her last two weeks "okay, I'm going to involve residents" and then a few weeks later you change your position. My question is now about the situation in which we have now arrived. Since 2008, it has been known that a reclassification of airspace is needed. Nevertheless, when the EIA was drawn up, it was still reckoned with a redistributed airspace, when it was already known that this reclassification would not arrive in time. How do you feel that we should now receive from this Minister a plan of approach for the reclassification, when it has been so incredibly well known that this reclassification is essential for Lelystad Airport to grow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u114	First of all, I'm throwing the word "laundering" far from me. Again, it would adorn D66 if... I am often told that in debates it is more about political games and about the emergence of political statements than about the content. I like to stick to the content. Then there is the question of how we are going to proceed. The Secretary of State has discovered that there are errors in this environmental impact assessment. She acted immediately, because she also assumed that the report would be correct. She has decided with your Chamber to amend that immediately and to ask the residents for advice. She suggested it herself. The advice of the residents is in. The Labour Party takes the residents very seriously. We have also seen the nuisance and the unrest. Based on that advice and all conversations with residents in all parts of the Netherlands, we have decided: yes, Lelystad Airport will be there, but for that we will first reconfigure the airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u115	The Alders agreement was concluded in 2008. Certain steps were taken in 2010. I just mentioned the milestones. But what actually happened between 2012 and now? You said she found out that the calculations weren't working out. That was November last year. What happened between 2012 and November 2016? What has actually happened to the reclassification of airspace? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u116	Again, I notice it's going to be some kind of repetitive album. I also notice that the VVD focuses very much on Secretary of State Dijksma. I believe that the VVD has not only been in the cabinet for the last four years, but has been in the cabinet for much longer and has also talked about aviation. We did that together. I'm not gonna join some sort of "who's to blame here?" No, we're dealing with a new situation. The Secretary of State at the time intervened and the current Minister is now working on it. Given all the current information, given the unrest among residents and given the advice, our position is: first rearrange and then fly on Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u117	That's a lot of words in answer to a very simple question. My question was: what happened between 2012 and 2016? I can give you the answer: there was a conflict with air traffic control over salaries and the PvdA did not want to go along with that, who found that complicated. Why don't you just say that? There just hasn't been a ball to rearrange that airspace. There's always been "it's gonna be okay," and now we're stuck with the fried pears. Why don't you just say that? Why don't you just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u118	You know what? I'm getting a little tired of this. Mr Dijkstra has been with the VVD for the past four years. He now thinks it's a good idea to give the Secretary of State a few more steps. I'm not gonna be a part of that. I have every respect for the Secretary of State at the time. I also appreciate the current Minister, who has to solve a very complicated dossier here. I ask her to do so with as much support as possible. We're gonna help with that, too. We, as a group, took a clear position a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u119	I do not want to say anything negative about Secretary of State Dijksma at the time, because I think she is an extremely skilled woman. She was a good ruler at that post. But I really don't understand why the PvdA didn't just pull the plug when she was in power all these years. What's with the turn now? Why didn't you stop when you just had your hands on the buttons? Why didn't you do it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u120	Well, I'll come back to it: it turns out that a number of mistakes have really been made in the EIA report. It has been found that residents are not well involved. The Secretary of State then intervened, along with this Chamber. That's what happened. The EIA report is now being addressed. We also said we want to talk to the residents. That's what happened to the Ministry. The residents have also given clear advice. For me, it is essential that we work together with the residents towards an airport that we all support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u121	This really is the third or fourth time that Mr Van Dijk repeats this. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u122	Yeah, I just don't understand. Because he needs a really long story for something I just don't get. All these years, the airspace would be redistributed. Now we are faced with the decision whether or not Lelystad Airport should open. All these years, the PvdA could have intervened. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u123	No, but it's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u124	Yes, and there is a very current situation of an EIA report that is incorrect and of residents giving advice. Mr Bruins does not mention that, but they are new facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u125	Mr. Amhaouch, do you have a very different question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u126	By the way, I do get a lot of attention from the coalition. That's good for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u127	I can't hear you, Mr. Amhaouch, while your microphone is on. You need to press the button and hold it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u128	You're making me nervous, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u129	Oh, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u130	I have three more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u131	Well, bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u132	I'd like to turn it around. I am not going to look back on what has happened either, because colleagues have already said something about this. You are now taking the position, and so does the PvdA as a driver's party: first regroup, then open Lelystad Airport. I'll turn it around. What do you need information as a representative of the people here in Parliament? So I am not talking about the province, because I understand that the people in the provinces and in the municipal councils take a certain position. You must weigh all interests: Schiphol, Flevoland, Gelderland and Overijssel. What kind of information do you need to make a really good assessment of whether we really need to re-assess before we can open Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u133	The information I need is the advice of the residents' committee that we have appointed with each other. That committee has also been able to go through all the documents with the Ministry and has come to a clear opinion. For us, that is the document on which we base our decision. There are indeed different interests. We are also dealing with the interests of Lelystad, for example, as has already been mentioned. There is also a good PvdA alderman, with a different view. We all took this into account, but the residents' advice eventually led us to decide to reclassify the airspace first and then open the airport Lelystad Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u134	Last question. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u135	Last question. So you're considering that opening Lelystad Airport can only be done with a reclassification? That consideration is based on a resident advice. Moreover, I have great respect for the people who have contributed to these investigations. You do not wait for the cabinet position and you do not wait for the independent Commission's ruling for the m.e.r. So that you, as well as us here in the Chamber, can take a decision that you can explain to both the supporters and opponents in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u136	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u137	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u138	Let's see where I was, Mr. Chairman. What does the Minister consider the advice of the residents? We just talked about that. Today was also the response of the National Ombudsman. He advocated a full position for residents as an interlocutor with the government. This is advocated not only for Lelystad, but also for large infrastructure projects. How does the Minister view the Ombudsman's plea, also in the light of the residents' advice, in which hand-outs are presented for gathering and supporting? Mr President, I will conclude. We take the residents' advice requested by the Chamber very seriously. We therefore call for a start on the reclassification of airspace before we can provide the necessary space for the routes at Lelystad Airport. This gives residents the certainty of a careful process, in which we also protect the viability of their living areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u139	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u140	Thank you, Mr President. If my voice skips, it doesn't mean that the emotions are getting a little too much for me, although that might be possible with this dossier, but that I'm plagued by a slight cold and related articles. I hope to make my contribution properly. The Minister is faced with an extremely fine headache dossier. If a headache file as a term applies to something, it is on this file. The question is then whether you should be in favour of a quick opening of Lelystad Airport in 2019. Or should we take another route? In fact, that is what this is all about in practice. It advocates that Schiphol should be relieved and that this should be good for employment. It also argues that companies have invested in the environment, that there is expected growth in employment, which Flevoland can very much use. If the procedures had been reasonable so far, the SGP would have voted in favour of entering that route. Edoch, all things considered, the SGP pleads for a postponement of the transfer to Airport Lelystad until the airspace review is completed. The way things have been going so far has caused a lot of bad blood. Governments and residents of Gelderland, Overijssel and Friesland were unpleasantly surprised by the long low-lying connecting routes. Correct criticism of the EIA report has been swept away for a long time. It has rightly been said, including by the Minister, that confidence must be restored. This means that the objective should not be that 1 April or as soon as possible after Lelystad Airport will have to take over a number of flights, whether it is 10,000 flights or increasing to 45,000 flights. That's not the issue right now. But the investment must be made in confidence. How do you get that trust back? In fact, the number of flights from 10,000 to the completion of the airspace review does not really matter very much. That doesn't make much sense either. As far as we are concerned, your confidence is raised by taking things up again, where necessary, from the outset and working towards a proper reclassification of airspace, creating space to fly higher, thus causing a correspondingly less nuisance. By formulating this objective, you keep the pressure on the kettle, because the importance of Lelystad must indeed be served as soon as possible. But at the same time, now that I'm suffering from my airways, I realize that of course that's a weird term, and you should actually fix it first, before you can take that step towards opening up Lelystad Airport. Looking at the approach plan tells me that the revision of the airspace structure has actually yet to begin, while there have been times in 2009 and 2014 when this has already been explicitly mentioned in the documents. And that didn't just happen in those years; colleagues have also mentioned other years. It's been hammered over and over again. This means that they have dropped administratively. The cabinet wrote a year ago that it would work towards a concrete solution for increasing airspace capacity and that concrete projects would be launched in early 2018. No, the concrete project is then that there is some sort of plan of action and that we know about what we are going to do. I really wonder what happened all these years. Actually, I'm not wondering; I already have footage of that. Let me summarise briefly: as far as we are concerned, we are working towards a careful procedure, so that we invest in restoring confidence. Then we see as a result of that process at what time the transfer from Schiphol Airport to Lelystad Airport, whether phased or not, can take place. My advice to the Minister would be to choose that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u141	I think this is my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u143	The question I want to ask is the following. Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP, is actually going to go along very well with growth, growth, growth and expansion, expansion and expansion. Does the SGP, which is also responsible for human beings, animals and the environment, see a scenario that focuses on the shrinkage of aviation, so that this whole expansion may not be necessary? Is that also something that appears in Mr Bishop's vocabulary or does he continue to walk along with the endless growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u144	As much as you would like to be able to plan and direct economic developments as a government, I honestly do not believe in that. I agree with you that everyone should be personally aware of how you deal with the environment, the creation and everything that is entrusted to us as stewards, but I do not see from a government any possibility of forcing through some kind of planning that the number of flight movements should be reduced by so much, that the number of ham slices should be spent by so much less or that the number of animals should be reduced by so much. No, then you're also dealing with forces you can't control as a government. Then it's about creating good conditions, so that the damage to nature, the environment and everything related to it is minimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u145	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u146	That's Mr Laçin's fifth question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u147	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u148	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u149	No, that was a mistake. This is really the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u150	We corrected that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u151	Yeah, he's keeping up really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u152	Very good, very good. What joy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u153	I welcome Mr Bishop's speech. If this is already a headache dossier, and that is what we are talking about, it is not for us as a Chamber or for the Cabinet, but especially for all those people living around and environmental organisations who are working on it every day. For them, it's a headache file. They're making a big deal out of it. I welcome Mr Bishop's speech to start with a reclassification and then enlargement. The simple question is: does Mr Bishop join us in calling on the other Members of Parliament to remove headaches from all those people as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u154	I do not agree with Mr Laçin that this is not a headache dossier for us. Let's face it: at least this is a very difficult place, so I have experienced administrative considerations and hundreds of jobs in a very vulnerable environment. You say no to that if you choose the route of administrative care. I'm getting a headache from that, yeah. In that sense, it is as good for me as it is for the minister, residents and administrators in the region and in the municipalities. So I understand very well that other choices are being made. But to stand for that now massively and to call on all Members of Parliament... No, I think everyone should consider that carefully. I respect it, no matter what consideration is made for it. But if we all agree that we need to invest in regaining trust, then we need to define our goals and resources well. That is not: in any case, it will be open in April 2019, or even in 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u155	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u156	Mr. Chairman. The whole process of expanding Lelystad Airport has been careless. We've heard it a lot tonight. Many parties have not been heard for participation or involved in decision-making. Procedures were opaque. Presented data didn't add up. 50PLUS wishes to express its appreciation for the HoogOverijssel working group. The same goes for the residents' delegation who came up with the advice An Other Sound, and a lot of other involved citizens. There's really got to be a turn of events right now. The process must be repeated: careful, transparent, using the right data and involving citizens. Of course it has to be in the right order. For us, this means that the first thing to be done is to reclassify airspace. Because how else do you want to carry out a correct environmental impact assessment? Experts assure us that this reclassification does not take until 2023. We hear these sounds more and more often and from various sides. The Minister must have heard that, too. With a year, it could be settled. But no, according to the government, a participation plan must first be drawn up, which will not be ready until autumn 2018. At the same time, a programme plan is being developed with sub-projects and preferred variants. It'll take until 2021. Phase three, the realization, cannot start before 2022 due to new systems. 50PLUS has two questions. Firstly, what is the big difference between the sounds that the review does not have to take so long and the government's planning? Secondly, do we understand that the government must now begin to identify needs and identify what sub-projects are needed, that consultation with neighbouring countries has just begun, that discussion of preferred variants has yet to begin and that this should take three years? What does this say about the process that has been going on for the past ten years? Also, still, the date of April 1, 2019. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. It states that when the review takes place, the operational process must continue unhindered. What does this say? I would also like an explanation of this. After a good reclassification it is clear what the flight altitudes and routes are. Only then will it be the time to update the EIA. In our view, not before, because these factors are crucial to determining both environmental and noise pollution. But the Ministry turns it around: first update the EIA and then revise the airspace. The letter on the EIA states: "The aim is to make clear to what extent the Lelystad Airport Decision needs to be amended and what environmental impacts occur as a result of the temporary design routes. So the Ministry wants to base a possible adaptation of the airport decision on temporary design routes. 50PLUS doesn't understand that either. We'd like an explanation from the Minister. And why should the update of the EIA be completed within two months, while the entire airspace review project is allocated five years? 50PLUS attaches great importance to support. That the provinces of Gelderland and Overijssel also indicate that they want to revise the airspace first, leaves nothing to be desired. What is the Minister's response to this? Finally, the key question. Who is actually in charge of this issue? Is that the Ministry or Lelystad owner Schiphol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u158	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate tonight in the Chamber is not a good one. Because the reason for this debate is the errors found in the EIA Lelystad Airport, which was established in the period 2013/2014. A few months ago it became clear that there were errors in the input data and the sound calculations for this EIA. I deeply regret that. And if I had a button somewhere that allowed me to go back in time, input the correct input data and fix the errors, I would do so immediately. I am, of course, extremely uncomfortable in this situation; you will understand that. But we can't, so we need to fix the mistakes afterwards. This will take the form of an update of the EIA, on which the independent Commission for Europe will shortly be responsible. will advise. I forgot to tell you what the classification of my speech is. First, in general, I'd like to walk through the main line. Then I come back in cubes to the E.R., the errors and the improvements. I will deal specifically with the reclassification of airspace, local loops, selectivity and other points. So I'd like to walk through the whole line first. Mr Van Dijk indicated that we ourselves had set up a residents' committee. Then we draw too much credit to the ministry, because the people themselves took that initiative because they had their own concerns. They've been mathing themselves. I'm glad they've been willing to put so much time in it and advise us, but they weren't appointed by the Ministry. They started this on their own initiative. To this day, they are also completely independent to advise everything they want. You probably didn't mean it like that, but I'd like to straighten it out anyway. The people have done this on their own initiative and they have not been committed to the Ministry in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u160	You may respond briefly, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u161	I referred in my contribution to the Chicken motion, which was adopted and which actually gave the residents' committee the position to advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u162	I am not going to change that, but I would just like to point out that the people are really 100% voluntary and have not been chosen or whatever by the Ministry. Someone asked what the biggest mistake was. One of the biggest mistakes, I think, is the communication, so people haven't been properly involved and feel unheard of. The fact that so many people have been so concerned and that there are so many unrest and concerns means that we have to note that it has not gone well in communication and that we really have to do it differently. The Committee on Citizens' Rights has made very good suggestions on how we could do this better in future. I very much understand how this unrest has arisen in them. What's my bet? Of course I want to do that communication very differently. I certainly want to follow the advice of the residents. I attach great importance to care. I very much regret that those mistakes have been made. We really need to take care of it together, and I need to be able to guarantee that you will be able to decide here in the Chamber on the basis of the right facts and the right process. Both the content and the process must really be in order. That's what we're gonna fix the mistakes for. We're gonna keep aligning with the residents wherever we can. From the beginning that I have been allowed to deal with this dossier, I have tried to do so. Many of you have asked what I have done so far. The first group I had access to in this file were the residents. Then, of course, there will be all kinds of other steps. In the long term, I will also like to go into the region and talk to the people there too. I think that's very important. After all, you have said it all in different terms: confidence goes on horseback and comes on foot. I'm very aware of that. I do my utmost to try to regain that confidence in every step we take. But we will have to prove that in time, not only by listening to people and going to them, but people will especially want to see in practice that they have been listened to, that it translates into something and that we are doing something with it. Only receiving reports is nice, but if it is not taken seriously then the work is done for nothing. I really want to take a very serious look at what we can do to really hear the people. I'll be right back to those mistakes. We have been asked what has been done since then to prevent those mistakes. In the past period, the Ministry and NLR, the Netherlands Air and Space Centre, have completed the analysis of how these errors could have happened. It also explicitly examined how internal processes should be adapted in order to avoid these errors in the future. This applies to us both at the Ministry and at the NLR. Internal procedures for these noise calculations have been strengthened and the process of external validation has also been improved. Then there is another point that many of you have mentioned: the knowledge that exists in the department in this area. A lot has been said about that. I have already indicated in a letter that there are very involved and very expert staff working at the Ministry. That is also my personal experience since several weeks. I really want to emphasise once again with a very thick line that this is the case. At the same time, we must also recognise that the organisation is under pressure. The revision of airspace, the aviation note that is coming and which we read in the government agreement, and all the plans on the aviation dossier, require us to use additional human resources to do so. We're definitely gonna do that. In order to fulfil the role of directing, because you are talking about almost all of this, we need to be really broader.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u163	I refer to what you asked in your answer to the questions: "The high workload and the role of the government in the field of aviation requires additional commitment and additional knowledge and skills. I'm trying to shape this." You are now giving a small picture of what you're going to do. I really need more. I would very much like to know what steps you are going to take in order to shape this and at what time. We believe that additional capacity and additional knowledge are extremely important in order to do this dossier and other files that are coming up in the future much better than is currently the case. So I do need a little more steps and time planning if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u164	You can't pull a can of people somewhere. You know that, too. We're working hard on that. There will be 15 to 20 fte. So it is being seriously expanded, because we see a serious task with each other and also because we want to deal with communication in a different way. We want to involve people much more. That, too, requires human strength. At what time exactly all of us can work at the ministry, I cannot say that now. There's a lot of people out there looking to get those people. But in that order of magnitude, people come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u165	And the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u166	How much time do you need to go through a careful application procedure? In any case, you need an x-number of months, because you can't get this around in a few weeks. Let us say that in the spring, in April or so, we should at least be very upset. Whether they're all there, I don't know. But it's got to be something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u167	I have a follow-up question to this, also in the context of the continuous development of state services by Rutte I, II and III. My follow-up question is whether those are powers you're going to assume. Or are you going to hire externally for the duration of the project and then disappear that knowledge again? We're really interested in getting knowledge inside the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u168	I can't exactly describe that for every FTE, but the idea is that we're just really gonna bring people in to the ministry. The starting points of the EIA are 25,000 and 45,000 aircraft movements at Lelystad Airport. There has been more reference to that. The EIA looks at all environmental impacts and their actualisation. This concerns noise, external safety, nature, air quality, nitrogen deposition and bird collisions; the whole. The calculations were performed conservatively where possible. In other words, at least we want to ensure that we do not underestimate the effects. The extent of the field of study of the effects studied in the EIA is determined by the expected extent of the effects. For example, noise effects and external safety cover an area other than the effects on air quality and nature. That's all accounted for in the E.R. The outcome of the EIA is that no legal standards are exceeded and that the EIA correctly described all effects. That is what the Commission has for the m.e.r. confirmed in its 2014 opinion. I shall now, of course, come to the future of the actualization we are about to do. At the moment, we need to see whether these conclusions can be maintained if, for example, we have corrected the aforementioned errors of thrust and altitude. When updating the EIA, we will therefore calculate the recovered and validated input data. Therefore, all relevant environmental impacts are identified. Additionally, in this update, we will map the environmental impacts of the connecting routes, once we have determined them with each other after the consultation has been completed, based on 10,000 flight movements. That is the situation in Lelystad before the airspace is reorganised. Then we also have a map of the environmental impact of this. So that is additional to what we had done before. Then we were asked about the bird clashes, among others by Mrs Kröger. The risk of bird collisions at higher altitudes, i.e. 1,800 meters and above, is limited. Approximately 95% of bird collisions occur below this altitude. Mrs Kröger has asked a lot of questions about this, or perhaps that was Mr Van Raan, I do not know. As a result, we decided to identify that risk in a separate investigation. My commitment is to include that research in the EIA update, so we've visualized all the effects you can think of, in the most current way, in that actualization. As I reported in the letter, I therefore use the radar data up to 4,000 meters altitude of the Royal Air Force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u169	There's a lot of confusion for me. When it comes to what mistakes have been made in the EIA, the Minister continues to refer to input data and thrust. The fundamental mistake that has been made in the EIA, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, is that we have an EIA for 45,000 flight movements, for a situation that does not yet exist, namely a redistributed airspace. We do not know how these aircraft fly after the airspace has been reorganised. The Minister explains that we do it up to 10,000 on the connecting routes, and from 10,000 to 45,000 it is calculated with the customized input data. What routes does that E.R. take up to 45,000 flight movements? We don't know how these routes run, nor do the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u170	I'll come back to the E.R., the mistakes and the calculations later, but then we'll just get back to the E.R. that was already done in 2014. We have now been able to see that it was in order, but I am going to go into that in the future. I'm almost done with my block in general. The planning is the next step. Where are we now with regard to this planning? In a number of steps, I now take note of the input of all those parties. We have had the airspace users, the residents group and of course we also have the internet consultation. Many of you have also reported that a lot of people have contributed. We'll bring those three together. In this we process everyone's input as carefully as possible and also really see where we can achieve optimizations. We're gonna weigh that up. Then we pass that on to the Air Traffic Control Netherlands and the Air Force Command, who, in their design process, are going to check it all and see if it is possible. Step three is the meeting with provincial directors, of which I see a few. I am talking to them to see what they think. Is this an improvement or not? If something comes out of that consultation that can be relevant for a municipality that has not been in the picture so far, or indeed, I will also like to go round the table with that municipality, so that we do not get back into the situation that a municipality gets something on itself that they have never been involved in before. I'd be happy to. I would also like to discuss the proposals with the residents' group led by Mr Ter Kuile. They have worked so hard and so hard that I also think I should go round the table with them first to discuss exactly what we think we can do with their input. I think it's very good to take the time for that one more time. The next step is then that we take the overall package to the independent Commission for the m.e.r. But we can only do this when it is clear what specific adjustments we can take out of the consultations in those design access routes. Then I expect that we can have that complete report, in which everything is combined, ready at the beginning of February. I say this with caution, because, given the history of this dossier, of course, I do not want to make a promise that I cannot keep. I have also heard from several Members of your Chamber that care is paramount. That's the same with me. Then it is both due care in the process and due care in the content. Then I can inform your Chamber about the proposed routes and the effects, including the effects of the corrected errors. Then the Commission will have to deal with the m.e.r. Time to get back to work. She has six weeks to give advice. Of course, you will receive that advice immediately. Mr. Chairman. Finally, to conclude this block. My efforts are and will continue to be aimed at opening Lelystad Airport in April 2019. The objectives of the coalition agreement are clear. In what way do we intend to achieve this? I certainly want to engage more in dialogue with all the involved, clearly communicated steps. This also applies to the whole aviation policy, I say right away. It applies to the whole new Aviation Note, to the whole process of airspace review and certainly to the follow-up process of Lelystad Airport. In this way, I want to make a careful assessment of all three dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u171	First of all, thanks to the Minister for bringing the process rounds into the process. That care is indeed important. In my speech I asked what responsibility and what mandate the provincial directors have. You say you're going to table with the provinces, the municipalities and the working group. Today there are others and tomorrow there will be another municipality. What does that structure look like? Does the county speak on behalf of the municipalities? Do they pick up everything and sit at your table? Do they have a particular advisory function? Do they have a decisive function? Can you specify the role and mandate of the provincial directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u172	That is precisely what I want to discuss with them with due care. We are already thinking about that. I think the Committee on Citizens' Rights has also given very good advice. Today, the Ombudsman has also been involved in the fight. I would also like to talk to him to see if he has any suggestions for improvement. At least I want everyone to have a place in the process who wants to say something and who has ideas and views on this. Then, as you yourself said, each in his own area, within his own mandate, will come to an end. A municipality will look at municipal level, the province at provincial level. You in the Chamber stand with us for the national consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u173	I'm not satisfied with the answer yet. The provincial directors sat at the table yesterday and will be back in January. I ask again: what decision-making power do they have? Or do they only have advisory powers? If we know that, we'll know what's gonna come out of it. We come all over the country. The drivers then say that they sat at the table, but what was decided? What's advised? The same applies to the municipalities. I would like a little more clarity on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u174	I would like to involve them, but it may be clear: the decision falls here, with you in the Chamber. I'm going to try very carefully to process all their input, but we have to make those decisions. Then I want to be able to take all the interests from all angles and directions very carefully. They can play a very important role in this, for example by channeling it as a province. However, if an individual municipality really wants to join us at the table, it should also be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u175	I hear the Minister saying that she is going to talk to everyone and that she is going to do this very carefully, but at the same time she is saying: for me, 1 April is still very much above water. If that takes more time and if there are other things to figure out, how can you say at the same time 'April 1st remains April 1st'? Did I misunderstand you, or do you still hold on to the date of 1 April and do you think it can still be done carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u176	If you have listened very carefully, you have heard me say that I continue to strive for this. If it becomes clear somewhere during the journey that more needs to be figured out, as you say, then there is another situation. For the time being, my aim is simply to achieve this, because that is the task your Chamber has given me. I'm 100% committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u177	I also have a question about the timetable. The Minister just outlined that the whole package to the Commission for the m.e.r. goes, probably early February, and then she can look at it for six weeks. Secretary of State Dijksma said that the package should be ready before 1 December and that the opening date of 1 April would otherwise be at stake. In fact, you are mentioning a date that is more than two months away, but you are sticking to the timetable. My question is where in the timetable you are going to make the profit, so the deadline outlined by the Secretary of State was not really a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u178	I don't have a very clear picture of the Secretary of State's timeline. We're gonna try to do things simultaneously or in parallel, if you like, wherever you can. I can't let the Chamber rush me to do things faster. If it takes more time, I'll take that time. I'm gonna make every effort to make it, but careful is the key. If anything else comes out that needs to be investigated, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u179	A textbook example of how a minister positions himself as a member of the executive: I carry out what the Chamber commands me and the Chamber has instructed me to strive for 1 April 2019. So that means that when the Chamber says "let 2019 sit down, we'll let go of the end date," you just have more room for manoeuvre. My question to the Minister is as follows. Does the coalition have the room to join the four of them, because in the end they are the majority of the people who agree to abandon the fatal date of April 2019 and put in full care? So: a prognosis can be made of when it has to be completed, but we are not committed to it, because it is a careful procedure. Is there room?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u180	Mr Bishop knows very well that the House of Representatives is the highest body. If the four parties together make different choices, of course they can always do so, but I do not see any indication of this at the moment. A careful process is being called for. In a file like this, you have to take into account that you can't just move around for a month. The system in aviation is that there is work for half a year. You're not gonna start a whole new process in winter. If you're really gonna slide, you're gonna talk about it in a year. If it were just a matter of a few weeks, I don't think we'd be so keen on getting it. That is, of course, the underlying reason why we are really doing our best. I also want to make the most of it. Whether that's gonna work, it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u181	I appreciate that, too, in the Minister, the conscientious handling of the date, but I also try to create some room for her in advance. I am also trying to create room for the coalition members to say out loud that the date of April 2019 is not fatal, that it will be a year if necessary and that it may be necessary for the care of the procedure to take a little longer. Would you need that space? Would it do you any good if we filed such a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u182	How helpful you are, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u183	It is very kind of Mr Bishop that he is so deeply concerned about the coalition and that he is asking if he is giving me enough space. I hope that the coalition has sufficient confidence that I will take everything out of the closet to do it carefully and see how I can keep it going. I know this coalition too, and I know they won't hold me to the impossible. I suppose they're confident I'll do everything I can to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u184	That's good. By the way, that date is not mentioned in the coalition agreement at all. So there's no need for the coalition agreement. I have another question about the OVV; I'm trying another way. Once again, the OVV is about Schiphol, but also about airspace. And the airspace of Schiphol concerns the whole of the Netherlands. The report says: "Don't pile up all kinds of measures to facilitate enlargement; don't do that, don't do that. At the same time, I hear the Minister say that we are going for the 10,000 and we are therefore going to see how we can facilitate this with additional measures. I don't understand. Can the Minister explain how the OVV says "don't" and the Minister "I'll do it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u185	As I understand it, we are going to have another separate debate on the OVV report. In any case, I can say now that safety is of course a priority. There can be no question of us taking risks on the dossier we are talking about, Lelystad Airport. It is simply a prerequisite that safety must be in order. We're just not gonna take any chances with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u186	I like to use my fourth interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u187	The third!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u188	The third, even better. I note that it stops if those sticking rules to enable those 10,000 in total OVV-technically can't. We have also asked for an ILT study on this subject. That it will stop is what the Minister is actually saying, and I think that is very good news. It's actually not a question but a confirmation of this good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u189	If it comes out that it's not OVV-proof, we're not going to do it, because it all has to be safe. We're not gonna capture unsafe flight routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u191	Then I come to the block E.R., mistakes and improvements. As I have already said, I am very sorry that mistakes have been made in the creation of the EIA, because it is of the utmost importance that people can rely on the information provided. Of course, that also applies to the Chamber. I do not share the image that the EIA contains but errors, an image that some people call upon. Errors have been detected in the input data and we are also recovering them. With these recovered data, I have calculations done, and I'm recording them in the actualization of the EIA. What are we doing about quality assurance in this process? Those recovered input data are validated externally by two expert agencies, To70 and Adecs Airinfra. In my assignment, that validation is done more deeply than has been the case so far. The calculations carried out with the recovered data will therefore be validated again by an external expert agency, the NLR. Finally, as you know, I will also have the Commission review the whole process of actualisation for the m.e.r. I will say immediately: I can reassure you, because these calculations will be made public to everyone. What is the legal status of the sub-MER for the local loops, Mrs Kröger asked. Well, there's no part-MER for the connecting routes. As indicated earlier, I am doing an update for the EIA for 45,000 flight movements. In addition, I will also show whether the effects of these temporary connecting routes fit in there. This approach has also been suggested by the Commission for the m.e.r. That's been discussed with them, too. That is why they chose to do so. This update is therefore also being submitted to the Commission for the m.e.r. And I'll report to the Chamber on that. Is there going to be an integral new E.R.? I told you, I'm gonna do an update on the E.R. The starting point is the realization of Lelystad with the 45,000 aircraft movements. So we are not going all the way back to the drawing board and I will take all the right information very carefully, which belongs to the connecting routes and to that final situation for 45,000 aircraft movements. For the first time, I am also presenting the intermediate situation in the case of 10,000 aircraft movements. We will calculate the most current insights and I will also recalculate all the original route sets from the EIA. I can also state that all the information and supporting documents used will be made public. Mrs Kröger also asked about the extent of the participation. Who has been able to leave a message and what about Wezep and Zwolle, for example? Everyone has been able to present an opinion, initially in 2013, on the scope of the EIA. The note scope and level of detail has produced 318 unique views across the regions of Overijssel, Gelderland and Flevoland and a single reaction from the rest of the Netherlands. Afterwards, the participation procedure under the Airport Decision in 2014 came with 918 views, also spread across a wide range of regions. There have been well-visited and less well-visited information meetings. You are also aware of this, because we have also informed you about it. Specifically for Wezep it is in the 40 dB(A) L. The sound effects for Wezep are thus also described in the EIA. Mrs Kröger also asked me to see you at the interrupting microphone and I will do your questions, you are ready to do what the environmental consequences of the long-term flight at 6,000 feet on the new draft routes. The environmental impacts of the routes for 25,000 and 45,000 flight movements in 2014 were examined in the EIA for the four route variants, i.e. A, A+, B and B+, and from June 2017 it is known that the temporary connecting routes have to be flown at 6,000 feet for a long time. This applies to the period up to 2023 and to up to 10,000 flight movements. Longer at 6,000 feet, therefore is now included in the EIA update. Then, I repeat once again, we are not only looking at the noise calculations, but also at all the environmental impacts, including air quality, external safety, disturbance areas of silence and bird collisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u192	Mr. Bruins. Or no, Mrs Kröger. Then you must walk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u193	I was politely waiting, Mr. Chairman. It's starting to bother me a little bit now. It is starting to bother me that the errors that have been made in the EIA are narrowed down to the wrong input data. Yes, it is incredibly good and special of a population group that have fished it out, but much more fundamental is the problem................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. indicated that the 2014 EIA was made on the basis of a non-existent situation, as that airspace has not yet been re-classified. So if the minister says: otherwise there's nothing wrong with that E.R.-2014, which we just use until those 45,000 flights, then she really doesn't do justice to the concerns of a lot of people in a lot of provinces, who might have been able to submit an opinion for 2014, if they had known they were stakeholders, but they didn't know that, because they had no idea what the impact would be on those 45,000 flights. No one knew that! So there is a very fundamental problem here. The question is therefore: does the Minister ask the Commission to take action before the end of the year? whether this final situation, what should be done, can be tested before the airspace is reorganised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u194	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u195	We would very much like the Minister to make a commitment this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u196	I am well aware that Mrs Kröger wants us to review airspace first, but so far this has not been necessary. We're gonna try to pick it up as soon as possible, but we can get inside the E.R. we have now... Again, it has to turn out. The Commission for the m.e.r. must see whether it is acceptable and whether it fits into legislation and regulations and within the effects. We need to see if we can fix the mistakes and whether we'll still be within the rules. The connecting routes also offer an opportunity. People have now been able to speak to that. I very much regret that the process has gone through this way. You're absolutely right about that. I have already said that I find that extremely regrettable, but unfortunately I cannot reverse that. The only thing we can do now is to give people plenty of time to think about the connecting routes for the temporary situation. So that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u197	What you can do now is really tackle the problem. What you can do now is re-assess the airspace and really identify the possible consequences, with a route structure that will cause as little nuisance as possible, giving all stakeholders the opportunity to respond. You don't do any of that, because you're actually saying "salamitactic" that up to 10,000...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u198	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u199	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Up to 10,000 we do it with a temporary reclassification and a couple of screwed-up routes, and for the step up to 45,000 the E.R. from 2014. But that 2014 E.R. is based on an air castle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u200	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan herhalen dat mevrouw Kröger inderdaad de luchtruimherziening eerst wil doen.]] We have indicated that it will take a lot more time. We're not gonna make it before 2023. In the letter I also sent to your Chamber, I indicated that we are going to try as soon as possible to examine possibilities for improvement, if it appears that there are during the journey to the final situation of a revised airspace during the journey. Maybe that's possible. Perhaps this will lead to another EIA procedure, but you cannot anticipate it by proposing it, as you are doing now, as if you could do the revision of airspace in the next year or two years. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u201	The EIA was implemented in 2014. At that time, it was already known that airspace could not be reorganised on 1 April 2018, which was then the intended opening date. Nevertheless, nothing has been investigated in the EIA about this temporary situation: no connecting routes of up to 10,000 flight movements without redistributed airspace. How is that possible? That's the only question I've asked about the past. How can it be that at that time no consideration was given to the fact that the airspace would not have been redistributed at the opening of Lelystad Airport and that we have no information in the EIA about that temporary situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u202	What I was able to find out is that, with the knowledge of that time, it was assumed that it could be done faster, but that it has now become clear that it really cannot be done. Other data were used at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u203	I would like to thank the Minister for the clear and clear commitment to make all the data and calculations public. I just wanted to be sure to mark it so that I can avoid a motion that it concerns all the data and calculations from the past, but also those that are going to be made, including the data from the different flight profiles and flight routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u204	Well, all the data we're involved in. I can't rule over my own grave, so I can't promise you all the data that will ever come to pass in the future. But let's just say we're definitely going to do that at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u206	I don't count that as an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u207	I hope you'll do the same to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u208	Well, that depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u209	I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u210	I don't know about you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u211	I'm gonna keep going to the E.R. I very much agree with Mrs Kröger that it is a fundamental point. The point is that, on the basis of the final picture of 45,000 flight movements, the EIA can only be made with a redistributed airspace. I hear the Minister saying that we can't. I think all the parties here have hammered with care over speed. Now let's go together for real measures. Then the conclusion is that Lelystad should be open a little later. If we want to take real measures that can embrace all those living around us, now is the time to say: we are going to reorganise airspace first and then we are going to do the EIA, because then we have a more realistic picture of the consequences. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u212	No, the Minister is not prepared to do that right now. In order to achieve a proper and careful balance, we also need to look at whether, with all the data we are now putting on the table, we need to look at the Commission for the m.e.r. It may also come to the conclusion that this has been a responsible process and that its content is correct. There can be no doubt about that. We will have to get that confirmation from the independent Commission for the m.e.r.: The facts are correct and it has been a good trial. Then the Chamber can decide. I really want to wait and see. Again, it's not a small decision to just say that we'll open Lelystad a little later. That's really not a trifle. On that side, too, we must make a very careful assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u213	I don't think anyone here thinks it's a small decision. It's a big decision we all have to make. That is precisely why it must be careful. It is precisely for this reason that it should be based on a realistic final picture and not on all kinds of half-hearted measures, with too low flight routes flown with fitting and measuring. We need to get rid of that. That is where the whole thing arises on this headache dossier; I am looking at Mr Bishop. We need to take that away now. If we don't do that now, we're going to have a new E.R. again that doesn't meet the final picture of 45,000 flight movements. Then we really come back to the salami tactics Mrs Kröger mentioned. We shouldn't want that all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u214	I am certainly not looking to get into the wrong scenarios, but I still see a chance to solve it this way. We have also had discussions on this with the Commission for the M.E.R., which is about to assess whether that is sufficient or not. Well, that'll have to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u215	I suggest you continue, because you still have a few topics to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u216	Mr Bruins asked whether the correct engine power would be taken into account in the routes. For the connection routes I will see which proposal the LVNL and CLSK come up with. From this, the altitudes for the routes and flight procedures will follow. On this basis, the NLR determines the input data that we will calculate in the update of the EIA. Then again it's about heights, speeds, thrust and so on. Is the EIA in line with EU laws and regulations, Mr Bruins has asked. The answer to that is yes. The EIA Lelystad Airport has been established in accordance with the relevant national and European rules. The Commission was then in favour of the M.e.r. considers that the EIA was complete. It was considered that the EIA and its complement contain all the information necessary to serve as the basis for the Airport Decision. The Council of State has also looked into this. The Commission will, of course, take note of this. now also look at this last piece of actualization. Can all assignments to the NLR and the profiles of the routesets be made public? Actually, Mr Bruins was just asking about that. I'd like to be willing to do that. At the EIA the routesets A, A+, B and B+ have been calculated. We will certainly also make the profiles underlying them public. Mrs Van Brenn asks why the ministry is carrying out the EIA update and not Schiphol. The faults in the EIA created by Schiphol are the result of the incorrect profiles, as I just outlined. Those profiles are also part of the relevant regulatory framework. That is why I think it is very important that we take the lead ourselves to correct this error. Since I myself take the initiative to restore the airport decision if necessary, I can also be the initiator of this update of the EIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u217	The Minister states that the Ministry is in charge of actualisation, because errors have also been made in the EIA with regard to the profiles and also with regard to the calculations. But in the end, the EIA was not drawn up by the Schiphol Group, but by two offices commissioned by the Schiphol Group. These are the same two offices that the Minister is now considering for the validation of the new input data. If she says that the direction is being taken to the Ministry because mistakes have been made under the direction of the Schiphol Group, but the implementation still lies with those parties, perhaps even with the same people, how far is there a shift in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u218	I believe that lessons have been learned from the way the mistakes have been made. They're independent agencies watching this. I think that it also contributes to the transparency of the whole that we are doing the data, including the data that these agencies are now doing the validation with and where the Commission will be doing the m.e.r. I'm gonna watch it, I'm gonna make it all public. So anyone who wants to do so can, in a manner of speaking, recalculate this and check it out. More independent than anyone can look at it, I can't fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u219	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u220	Then I'll move on to the airspace reclassification. We've just talked a little bit about it. Many of you have called on me to take it up as soon as possible. What has happened in those past few years? I also very much regret that this has been delayed. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed to implement this redesign of airspace. You have seen that we have now sent a plan of action to the Chamber. I intend to take that forward. It is really intended that airspace should be classified more efficiently. I am therefore extremely pleased that the colleagues from the Ministry of Defence are also open to it and that they are very willing to take this together, to look at it together in an integrated project and also to work together in relation to, for example, neighbouring countries. We really need these neighbouring countries, especially Germany and Belgium. In the letter I have already indicated that complete redevelopment is a very extensive and complex operation that is not expected to be completed before 2023. But if I repeat it once more within that process of airspace reclassification, rather partial solutions that we could achieve in the interim, with an EIA where necessary, I will certainly seriously consider those possibilities at that time. So wherever I can, I won't hesitate to take steps earlier to quickly achieve a more efficient airspace. I hope, in part, to be able to work in parallel with this. Mr Amhaouch asks how I am going to involve the public authorities. Broad support is, of course, crucial for a successful airspace review, because we do not want to end up in the same process and unrest as we are now in. It is important to draw lessons from this and, on this basis, as I indicated earlier, to establish this participation in the airspace review and thus to involve stakeholders more and more early in the various steps we are going to take. As far as I am concerned, 2018 will be dedicated to that participation. With the provinces and municipalities you already gave it to airspace users and airspace users I want to create a joint participation plan during this period. So I don't want to pour that into concrete right now. I want to talk to them together to see what's the best way to get you all involved so you all feel heard. In addition, I refer once more to the Population Delegation Connecting Routes Lelystad Airport. It has also made very relevant recommendations for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u221	I have to take a step back, because I just needed to get the Minister's words working on me. I asked about the reconfiguration of airspace: is that in phases or in a big bang? I now hear the Minister say that it is indeed going at certain stages. In the letter you also speak of a whole plan. In my contribution I also asked about the temporary solution, the partial reclassification of airspace with Defence, if you will call it that. When can you say something about that? Would space be created there in a fairly short time? Or is that already in the process and can we expect that in February? Or do you need more time for that? You are now entering the regular route, and I understand that at the end of February the Commission will take the m.e.r. then said something. Is there anything in that room that we can borrow from the Defense Department to minimize the nuisance in Overijssel and Gelderland? Or do you say: no, I can only go down that path if the Commission does not do so. Has spoken out and we're on our way to the real reclassification?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u222	I can't say anything about the precise possibilities we are now seeing for improving the connection routes, because we're still talking, including with the Defense Department, to see what's possible there. When it comes to the revision of airspace, which I was talking about in this block, it will have to be seen how fast that is going. First of all, I want to make sure that, in the interests of care, we agree on how we're going to do that process. I would also like to look closely at how we can talk to the Ministry of Defence at the Eastern Neighbors and the Southern Neighbors, as well as to civil aviation in both countries. So I can't anticipate that. We really want to give that careful shape in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u223	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u224	But in the first piece you're already watching? You cannot, of course, tell us the outcome of this, but in the meantime, are you also looking with the Defense Department to see if there is any extra space there, without prejudging the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u225	Sure. We're talking constructively. We use airspace both civil and military. Where we can help each other, we will certainly try to achieve that. Once again, the Ministry of Defence is sitting very constructively at the table here too, and I am pleased with that. There has been a specific request, including with regard to the process I outlined in the letter for the revision of airspace, to the iCAS, the new air traffic control system, which is also important in this respect. That's approaching the end of his technical life. I can tell you that it does indeed have the status of a large ICT project, because that is when it involves an investment of more than 100 million. Various external audits have already been carried out on this subject, and indeed the recommendations of the Elias Committee have been taken as a guide. The ICT testing office, BIT for the connoisseurs here, intends to perform a BIT test on this iCAS system soon. We will, of course, continue to inform you about the outcome and progress of iCAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u226	This is already the third ruler who promises everything. We have no choice but to give this new ruler a chance, because she must be able to prove that she is fulfilling her commitments. But here's what I'm wondering. The Alderstable was of course also there to relieve residents around Schiphol. They had a say in it, too. But how many more people are duped now that we're about to open Lelystad Airport? I'm really curious about that, because I think we really end up in the drip from the rain. I saw in an e-mail that a regiment wrote: you're about to get millions more involved if you're gonna get that whole strip. What the hell are we still doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u227	If there are millions of people who are worried about this and have ideas about this, then they should be able to get rid of it. It's that simple, actually. I want to take everyone who's worried about this seriously. That's what we've been trying to do. You're talking about Schiphol. I just happened to grab it. Indeed, it is true that there are many more people who are bothered. We've been looking into it for a while. Today, around Schiphol, 126 500 have been severely hampered, while in the story of Lelystad, 279 have been severely hampered by 45,000 flight movements. So you are right that it is indeed a very large number of people at Schiphol in relation to what we are talking about here at Lelystad. I very much agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u228	Those people are already in trouble. There are new ways of countries. "Sweep diving landings" I always call that, so that Jan with the hat understands it. There are also quieter planes, engines. That's all been reviewed. According to the data, it's not gonna make any sense either. I really think we're gonna dup a lot more people than if we'd just expanded Schiphol. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Could the Minister have a thorough examination of whether I'm right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u229	I will certainly check that again with Mr Alders of the Alders table. But according to the clues I have, the noise at Schiphol Airport, as I just said, hits a lot more people than what this is all about. So just to say, they've already gotten in the way, add some more... I don't know if I'm gonna get a lot of hands on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u230	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u231	Unless, of course, I agree with Mr Graus that it is possible to catch up with the quieter flown, because, of course, we are encouraging this development. We have also agreed in the coalition agreement that we are going to take this seriously, including in the European context, and that we will even come up with a flight tax again if it does not result in results. So we do have a stick behind the door to appeal to the flying parties as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u232	I tabled a motion on the flight tax last week to abolish it. We should also think of the Netherlands, a level playing field for Schiphol and also our pride, the blue swans of KLM, because they already have so much false competition. They must already operate in a completely unequal playing field. With such a flight tax, we're only going to get Schiphol and KLM into more trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u233	That is why we are not going to take that up immediately, but it is a last resort if we cannot achieve better agreements at European level. Mr Paternotte asked why the decision on Lelystad in 2015, when it was already known in 2014 that the airspace review would not be completed in time? The projects turned out to be more complex than they thought at the time. For example, we are also talking about the colocation of the traffic controllers, which we are now approaching the final stage. I'm glad that's gonna work. And the capacity required of traffic controllers was limited. You're aware of that, too. That has led, among other things, to that. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union is still asking when it will be clear what the sky will look like, on the basis of which you can count on those routes. As the airspace review approach plan shows, the period from 2019 to 2021 will focus on the actual design of airspace areas and global routes. That will be a moment when you have to assess whether this requires a new EIA and everything else that goes with it, or not. Will cooperation with the military provide more space? That could be very good, but we don't know that. We'll have to sit down with them first. I say to Mr Amhaouch that there is no big bang; we are going to get it kicked. Mrs Van Brenk asked: are you only starting the review now? Pre-work has been done in recent years. I'd like to build on that. In September, your Chamber received an overview of what has happened to the implementation of this Airspace vision, but I also regret that not as much progress has been made as you would have liked and hoped for. I'd like to take that forward with speed. Mrs Van Brenk said that experts say that airspace can be reorganised in a year. I have outlined in the letter that this is really not realistic, especially if you want to have a careful process in which you give everyone the opportunity to think along. If you just look at complications like how to tune this with neighbouring countries, how systems should eventually be adapted to it, how traffic controllers should be trained and how to check everything on safety aspects, then it should be clear that it simply cannot be done in a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u234	Thank you for the timeline outlined. Somewhere in 2019 to 2021, we get more clarity about what the airspace will look like. The plan of approach also includes shorter-term realisations, partial solutions that may be faster if they meet certain conditions. If I ask the Minister about it, she might be able to come back to it in second term. One of the shorter-term realities in the plan of approach is: "2. Adherence limitation, including definitely Lelystad." I was just wondering what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u235	Then I'll just have to go back to the exact text on nuisance control. The coalition agreement states that we aim to reduce all obstacles. We are focusing on less noisy aircraft and more sustainable aircraft, but that is another aspect. This is also important in the environmental impact assessment, but it is not related to noise. Nevertheless, that is certainly also very important. We are explicitly trying to give substance to this obstacle in all possible ways we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u236	I would like to come back to the number of people who have been hampered by Lelystad or Schiphol with 10,000 additional flight movements. In particular, I do not want to imply that I am in favour of extra flight movements, but according to my information, sound experts from HoogOverijssel, who we now know are experts, have calculated the following. At Schiphol Airport, with 10,000 additional flight movements less than 1,500 people are hindered. In Lelystad, the numbers are from 400,000, 500,000 to 700,000. I have just heard the Minister mention a number of which I dare to say that it is not true. You're talking about severely impaired people. Perhaps that is the point, but of course this is about much more than just seriously obstructed. These are people who live on the Veluwe, who have total peace at the moment. A large number of people are therefore going to be affected. At Schiphol, for example, sound experts from HoogOverijssel have shown that they are less than 1,500 people. I would like to stress once again that I am not in favour of 10,000 additional flight movements, but I would like to say this. Will the Minister respond to this, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u237	I don't mind more people being bothered. It was indeed a serious obstacle. I would just like to point out to Mr Graus that, if there are so many people who are already experiencing serious noise pollution, it is easy to say: they are already already being hampered; we are adding to it. I think we can agree on that. That was the port of my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u238	Last interruption, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u239	I'd be happy to finish that, Madam President. A lot of the people who got in the way did go to live at an airport. And now there are also people being duped who haven't chosen to live at an airport. I think that's an essential difference, really. I live here during the week, and then I see planes going right over. I think that's fantastic. I think it's wonderful to look at. I smell the smell of kerosene occasionally, delicious! It doesn't bother me. There are people who find it difficult, but then you shouldn't live near an airport. This is listening very closely. I really want that investigated, because I think Mr. Laçin and I are right. I'm pretty sure. We just need to stop doing this and expand Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u240	Well, there's an E.R. around Schiphol, too. There too, people must be able to count on a reliable government if there are agreements to operate within certain noise standards. We had a discussion here not so long ago about the Spaarndam working group, which stated that they were more affected by noise than allowed. I really don't think those people will agree with you that the fact that they live there would be a free pass to go over the noise ceilings that were agreed there. I really don't think that's what we're getting together about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u241	I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u242	I'll be on the connecting routes. I can actually be very brief about that. Several people have asked about Wezep, Zwolle, Stadshagen and Ede. They asked: can you change that? These proposals have also been included in the consultation process. This means that we are looking very seriously at this and that we are bringing it into the process at LVNL and CLSK. They will come up with their opinion on whether improvements are possible. I would like to get back to that in the letter on the connecting routes. Some questions have been raised about the traffic distribution rule. We are developing Lelystad Airport to create space for the mainport-related traffic at Schiphol Airport. A good network of air connections is crucial for our economy, employment and our locational environment. There is no selectivity policy without Lelystad Airport. The goal is to move the non-mainport-related traffic from Schiphol to Lelystad. The primary means of achieving that goal is the market approach of Lelystad Airport together with Schiphol Airport. Lelystad Airport is busy with that, too. I have understood from time to time that there is also something in the media about the fact that there are also airlines that are seriously considering moving their holiday flights. If the market approach is not successful, then the traffic distribution rule comes into play. You ask: when will it be ready? I hope that it will not be necessary and that the market will simply solve it itself. Especially Lelystad Airport itself is now called upon to seduce airlines to come to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u243	I'd still like to see if the minister's almost ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u244	I only have the folder after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u245	Okay. Is that a big folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u246	Well, that's always relative, of course. There's about four or five leaves in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u247	Then I'm going to see Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u248	I have a question for the Minister. I'm having a little trouble with the word "holiday flights." I know it is in the coalition agreement, but in my view there is no holiday flight, because there can be all kinds of travelers for all kinds of purposes, including people who visit their families or something like that. To what extent is such a traffic distribution system going to last when you start describing holiday flights, as they will soon be reviewed, including by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u249	You're actually right. "Holidays" is a bit of a popular and easy name. It is simply a question of non-mainport-related traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u250	That non-mainport-related traffic needs to be moved. The Minister says: we want to try that with a market approach. That basically means you're trying to seduce companies to go to Lelystad. As Mr Graus said, we all get companies saying: we do not want to go to Lelystad. That traffic distribution rule is the way we're sure we can move flights to Lelystad. Do you agree with us that that is the only way we can be sure that Lelystad Airport also fulfils that function, namely the movement of non-mainport-related traffic? And if so, when will it be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u251	I still prefer the market approach. If it can be arranged that way, that's fine. I really think of this traffic distribution scheme as a fall-back option. There are a few examples, for example Charles de Gaulle in Paris and Malpensa. We will have to consider whether we can put something like this before the European Commission. There are examples for this, but when that will be done... I hope it won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u252	I suggest you answer the rest of the questions. In that case, Members of Parliament may, in their second term, ask questions or table motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u253	From different parties I have been asked to identify the effects of any delayed growth on the business case of Lelystad Airport. The Schiphol Group is responsible for that business case, but if I may interpret the question in such a way that it is not just about the effects of the business case of Lelystad Airport, but about the total picture of the effects on Schiphol Airport, because that's where we're going to do it, then we can ask the Schiphol Group to make that clear. Several parties have also asked whether I intend to have an experience flight carried out. I am in principle in favour of this. I also subscribe to the goal of letting people experience what it actually means when an aircraft flies over the routes that are going to become possible. So I think it is important that the way we organise such a flight should be in line with what stakeholders, particularly residents, expect from it. Because besides the type of aircraft there are of course a lot of factors that are going to affect sound experience: the place, nice or bad weather and so on. I would also like to organise that process in cooperation with residents. We'd like to make the initial preparations for that. Is moving the Paracentrum Teuge part of the business case Lelystad? That question is based on relocation. At the moment the conversation with the people involved at Teuge is still ongoing to arrive at customized agreements to keep the jumping on Teuge possible. In the letter on the connecting routes and in the EIA report, I will inform you exactly how that is going to work. Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u254	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u255	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u256	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u257	Mr. Laçin, you've used up all your questions. This time it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u258	Second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u259	Second term, indeed. You've also been a Member of Parliament. I know. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u260	I waited because I was hoping the Minister would come and talk about it. It's all about the care in the process. It seems as if the Minister now knows a bit more about how an E.R. works. Then she also knows that an essential part of an EIA is the alternative consideration. Are the alternatives being tested, weighed? Then choose the option with the least environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u261	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u262	My question is whether the alternative routes that have been part of the 2014 EIA have also been based on those wrong input data and whether that alternative consideration is being made? This also includes the option "no Lelystad," because that is also an alternative. Then it's complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u263	You don't have to do a lot of math on that one. But basically it's all being passed on. In fact, I have also indicated to you that it will all be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u264	Thank you for answering the questions. Actually, I missed one answer. In our contribution, we have said that a lot of scientists say that the growth of aviation must stop. We have translated that into a shrinkage, to a drop of 300,000, in which the demand for Lelystad would not play at all. I have not heard the Minister at all about the voice of science, let me just call it that and what we say about it. I was wondering if that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u265	Well, those are, of course, political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u266	What?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u267	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u268	Apparently, I said something very strange. They are political choices when it comes to balancing interests. Of course, you're making a trade-off. You can take the view that you have to stop immediately with everything that does not contribute to climate goals. That is not the choice in this coalition agreement or I would like to make. We are going to work explicitly on sustainability, including aviation. At European level, it contributes to international discussions. I have already said that I believe that aviation should also be part of the climate objectives. We will be happy to fight for this in an international context as well. So I think we're actually already in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u269	I thank the Minister for the first-term answers. I just want to make sure I'm clear about what's coming next. When I look back, I can conclude that the connecting routes were not yet known when the old E.R. and the airport decision were made. As a result, stakeholders were not really able to participate at the time. There will now be an additional EIA. If I understand correctly, we will conclude from this whether a new EIA is needed or whether the additional EIA is sufficient. And there's a new airport decision coming to the Chamber. Did I put it right in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u270	Yes, Mr Bruins has said that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u271	Okay, thank you. This ultimately leads to whether the L-standards for the sound contours all comply with what we have agreed with each other in this country. And since it is a new airport decision, therefore, there is participation and a possibility of appeal, I suspect. Is that right, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u272	Yes, these are just the legal procedures, which we will, of course, follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u273	I have two more questions. My first question is about avoiding the residential cores, specifically Wezep. You mentioned this briefly, but I am, of course, very curious, like all people, to see the outcome, especially if we can do a few things there with the defence airspace. I would say: do not hesitate to take interim steps with the allocation of airspace, if that is possible. We have to realize those quickwins. My second question is about environmental management. We have had a number of good experiences with this in relation to major infrastructure projects. Can you go into that again? Is that possibly an option for something like this? After all, you really have to take people from the front. Let this just be a lesson of how it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u274	If I'm motivated to do something, it's to take on that environmental management very well. I would therefore like to speak with those involved on how best to do so. The inhabitants' group around Mr Ter Kuile, I say it conveniently but just as well, has made good recommendations for this, but I also want to be able to discuss this with provinces, municipalities and others. After all, we must also be careful not to fall into the trap of thinking that what works well in road projects, for example, is to convert one-on-one to aviation. I have just indicated that the Ombudsman has ideas about this too. I think that we should all look carefully at what is the best way of shaping this participation specifically for this issue of aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u275	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions. My advice is always to start with the motions. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the operation of Lelystad airport has a far-reaching impact on both the environment and businesses;]] [[points out that safety and acceptance are more important than a planned opening date;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the progress of Lelystad Airport is carefully preceded by speed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the old and later restored EIA for Lelystad airport describes a scenario for 25,000 and a scenario for 45,000 flights and that there is no testable scenario for 10,000 flights;]] [[Whereas the aeroplane noise cannot be calculated until the altitude of the routes is known;]] [[Whereas the Council of State expressly states that in the case of major projects, such as Lelystad Airport, the intended final situation should be assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Commission for the m.e.r. request advice on whether the final situation can be assessed in terms of environmental impact before the airspace reclassification has been completed, and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-432]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u277	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas almost all reports, calculations, reviews, validations, audits, controls and recovery operations at Lelystad airport have been carried out by the same two agencies;]] [[Whereas this does not ensure sufficient objective distance from the process;]] [[Invites the Government to request a competent but not previously involved party for the validation of the EIA, including the new connecting routes of Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u278	Mr. Chairman. I asked eight questions about the business case, the indirect effects and the reclassification. They haven't been answered by the Minister. My question is whether this can be done in writing. With regard to the traffic distribution rule, the Minister said that she hoped that it would be forthcoming, but that she expected, above all, that the market approach would produce something. Two months ago, the Van Helvert motion c.s. That is why we are calling for the distribution of traffic to be completed before the airport is opened, so that we have that instrument. My question is whether the Minister will carry out that motion and, if so, how. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has said about the independent counter-expertise that it is difficult to make it more independent, but for me it is again difficult to see what independence is in when it is always the same two offices. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the errors that have occurred so far in the process around the routes to and from Lelystad Airport, care and objectivity are even more important when it comes to the new data on the basis of which the effects on matters such as external safety, noise and emissions of new air routes are calculated;]] [[Considers that counter-expertise, not only on the new import data but also on the calculations themselves, can contribute to ensuring that care and objectivity;]] [[noting that good experience has already been gained abroad with the active involvement of residents in such a counter-expertise, so that they can co-think and consider from the outset;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that an independent counter-expertise is carried out on the import data and calculations, to involve the residents' delegation and to involve the Court at the latest at the time of the Commission's opinion on the M.E.R. inform,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31963-435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. The feeling that I have left to this debate is that the Minister is playing her own record, whether it is true or not. It is therefore really up to us as a Chamber, as representatives of the people, to convey the voice of the people. We can only make a careful decision about Lelystad if the airspace is re-allocated. That is why I shall be voting on my motion that I tabled during the budget debate next Thursday. The operative part of this motion is exactly the same as the motion adopted by the members of D66 at their congress a month ago. That motion is very simple: first, the airspace must be reorganised and then we will continue to talk about more flights. I hope that this will also respond to the question put by Mr Graus in the first term. That motion means very simply that we can only talk about flights from Lelystad once the airspace is reorganised. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u280	HighOverijssel and also a petitioner of the same motion have called on you and the other petitioners on Twitter to simply await the journey properly, including the opinion of the independent Commission for the m.e.r., and to put the motion to the vote only then. Of course, you are quite free to do so, but I would like to ask you whether you have seen and taken into account that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u281	I have regular contact with the action groups you're quoting. In that sense, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u282	If there is no doubt, you will probably also read that they say: we advise you to suspend the position and the Commission's opinion for the m.e.r. Wait and see. My question is whether you are going to do so or whether you are going to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u283	And that discussion was on Twitter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u284	It's not about Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u285	It wasn't even a discussion. It has been a simple appeal to Mr Laçin, among others. It was done on Twitter. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u286	I'm holding on to the call I just made. I will put the motion to the vote on Thursday because we think it is high time that the parties made choices. We have enough information. I think we've all talked about care, care over speed. And if you can't make that choice yet, we'll see about it on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u287	Look, the municipal elections are coming up, so a lot of parties will be happy to postpone this. But we do want to get naked with the buttocks. I would like to co-sign this motion if you change it in such a way that we have to wait for the reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u289	Then I shall also waive my second term, Madam President. A blessed night for in a moment!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u290	You too, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u291	I'm gonna finish this. We have heard the Minister's ambition to attract 15 to 20 FTE to the Ministry. I hope for her that she will be able to bring back the much-needed knowledge. Because no matter how the process around Lelystad will proceed, there are still many other dossiers that require knowledge and skill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u292	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u293	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have had a good debate that many people have rightly been interested in. We cannot immediately remove people's concerns, but going back step by step to restore confidence would be very nice. The problems have also been clearly exposed tonight. A number of years have just been too little done. We also need to look forward. Let's learn lessons from this. We don't want to run away from the responsibility we have. I said that we have a greater interest in aviation than Lelystad alone. Aviation is also very connected to Schiphol and the function of Schiphol, which means that we all have a good sandwich. At the same time, you want it to fit as carefully as possible. I'm happy with the actualization of the E.R. Of course, I'm very curious about what's coming out of that. I really hope for a black and white advice on that. A number of mistakes are simply acknowledged. That's good. They can just be repaired. I also welcome the approach plan for the airspace review. I do have one critical note. When I was late last night browsing that, when it came in, I thought: we're taking all of 2018 for that consultation and it's very important to involve the people, but if there's really a need for pace, you're wondering if that might be a little faster. On the other hand, we have learned that you can also go on your record, so to speak, if you do it too fast. For the rest, we discussed a number of motions here in the Chamber on 4 October. It became very clear where to go and where to send it: selectivity, revision, bringing people along, doing the E.R. and so on. A number of motions will be added today. We'll just judge them on their merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u294	Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u295	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have seen an involved minister today, who has acknowledged with equestrianism that mistakes have been made in the past. The Minister is also determined to go through a process that involves residents in the region in an open way and communicates and handles the data. Thank you for the commitment on open data and on organising an experience flight. Thank you for the commitment that we will know in a month or two whether the additional calculations are sufficient or whether a new EIA is needed to reach the airport decision, including participation and appeal. My one motion I'd like to table is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, despite a year's delay at the airport, no detailed investigation has yet been carried out into the effects of such significant changes on the Lelystad Airport business case;]] [[whereas initially 2,000 movements were assumed in the first year and the re-mapping of different business case scenarios resulting from changing planning and/or an adjusted growth path of flight movements could provide valuable insights for the future decision-making of Lelystad Airport;]] [[Considering that such scenarios logically also include a minimum flight scenario in which the airport can operate;]] [[calls on the Government to map the effects on the Lelystad Airport business case of changing planning and different growth paths of flight movements and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31963-436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u296	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thanks for the answer. I was shocked at the start of your response. You scared the shit out of me, too. It scared you, too, I saw. I have to tell you, I'm gonna be shocked again later. You say that the harsh border that scientists call a political balance remains in the end. That's true, but somehow I'm shocked that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u297	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u298	... that the Minister says on behalf of this cabinet that this is a trade-off and then continues with the plans. That's what I wanted to say. Thanks for the answer. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there may be significant risks to flight safety and to the birds of the Oostvaardersplassen and other natural areas around the airport;]] [[Whereas the motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Van Raan (31936), No. 403) calls for serious action to be taken on animal-friendly solutions to reduce goose populations around airports;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the numbers and movements of birds in the immediate vicinity of Lelystad Airport and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Safety Research Council states that the further growth of Schiphol airport could jeopardise safety over 480,000 flight movements per year;]] [[Whereas serious incidents, both near collisions and airspace violations, have already occurred at Schiphol Airport, much more frequently than at other international airports;]] [[Whereas the opening of Lelystad Airport prior to the completion of the airspace review could lead to additional security risks;]] [[believes that safety should be at the forefront of growth;]] [[calls on the Government to analyse the impact of Lelystad Airport's opening on airspace safety and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31963-437]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31963-438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u299	Thanks for the coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u300	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u301	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, we thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the questions. We also wish the Minister every success in the coming process. It's a challenging file, for the MPs but also for the minister. As a CDA, we have great doubts and difficulties with the way the trajectory goes in conjunction with the different layers of government. The same applies to the VVD. We have a motion on this together. We have the government and we have the different provinces involved. It is an important project in the Netherlands, involving Schiphol as a national interest, involving Lelystad, but also the interests of Overijssel, Gelderland and other provinces. That is why our motion calls for provincial directors to assume their responsibilities and for the Empire to assume its responsibilities to work together to find solutions to minimise the nuisance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Lelystad Airport is of value for regional economic development;]] [[noting that errors have been made in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and that people have not been properly taken into account in the process;]] [[whereas the expansion of Lelystad Airport requires a careful and transparent process based on the right facts;]] [[calls on the government, together with the provinces concerned, to agree on ways to minimise the burden on residents and set up a careful process to regain confidence and inform the Chamber of the actualisation of the EIA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u302	Mr Amhaouch, Mr Paternotte would like to ask you another question, so please stand by the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u303	I would like to focus on what is intended by this motion. On October 4th is a motion by Barbara Visser c.s. It is also the name of our fellow party member. It asks the government, among other things, 'in anticipation of the reclassification of airspace'. I would like to say a few words about 'the drivers concerned proactively'. It also states that its purpose is to monitor and optimise the nuisance. You are actually using the word "optimize" here and you are also saying that you want to involve the drivers. My question is what exactly do you want on the basis of your motion, on top of this earlier motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u304	I didn't use the words "optimize" or "monitors." That's always after. At this stage, in which the Minister sat at the table with directors yesterday and in which, I understand, she sat at the table with drivers a few more times, all parties must assume their responsibilities and see how they can minimize the nuisance. For six years, Lelystad will close, on the basis of a positive opinion from the Commission for the m.e.r. Because if there isn't, we have a whole different problem. The rulers, the provinces and the Empire must move together and not roll the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u305	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u306	I understand you're saying there's an appointment to be made. Are these agreements in which, in your opinion, the provinces should be given a certain form of participation? I do not understand exactly what the difference is between proactively involving drivers and sitting around the table with drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u307	I don't think sitting around the table is in the motion either. It says, "Make appointments." You can sit down at the table and talk a lot, but we just want clear agreements to be made, the minister takes the lead and the provinces join in to reach joint agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u309	I can't make it any easier, like the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u310	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Mrs Kröger also wants to interrupt, so Mr Amhaouch is running back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u311	This motion also raises a question for me. From several provinces and municipalities, the signal is very clear that they have not been well involved, because they have never been interested in the entire EIA journey until 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u312	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u313	The question is how Mr Amhaouch thinks we are going to ensure that the provinces, residents and so on as stakeholders are actually involved in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u314	Mr. Amhaouch, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u315	I do not think the words used by Mr Kröger are correct. A number of municipalities may not have been interested, but according to my information, all the provinces have been at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u316	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. Then the Minister will deal with the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u317	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 432 I see as a plea for safety first and foremost. So I can take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u319	The Kröger motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u320	The second motion is the motion in part No. 433. This is explicitly taken into account in the actualization. Let me look at Mrs Kröger: shall I say, Mrs Kröger, in this 'judgement chamber'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u321	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u322	Okay. I can take her, too, but let's not do that. The third motion in part No. I should like to advise against 434 because the Commission for the m.e.r. Is independent and therefore, as far as I am concerned, the motion is superfluous. The fourth motion in part No. 435 is about the counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u323	Mrs Kröger, a short question. Don't argue!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the motion is not made sufficiently clear, and if so, I would like to clarify it. It is not about the Commission for the m.e.r. It's about the preliminaries with the input data and the sound profiles. There are now two offices that have already done it once and I ask whether a party not previously involved can do another check on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u325	Then the motion is actually about the same as Mr Paternotte's motion in part No. 435. I would like to say a few words about this. I'm willing to start looking for an additional validation by an additional party. If I don't find it, I'll have to guarantee it in the process, of course. So I'm seriously looking for an extra validation, and that's why I could take over those motions. In this case, however, I shall vote in favour of the motion as Mr Paternotte has put it, because I think it is a little sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u326	Are you going to continue? Oh wait, is it then judgment Chamber for the motion in part No. 435?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u327	Let's see. The motion in part No. 435 I can take over and the motion on 434 I would advise against because I am in favour of the motion in part No. 435 to choose. If I may explain Mrs Kröger's as well, I'll take it from here. I will then do so with the explicit explanation I have given to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u328	We shall now return to Mrs Kröger's motion on item No. 434. I see that no one objects to the adoption of Mrs Kröger's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u329	The same question for Mr Paternotte's motion and Mr Bruins' motion No. 435. I see this even now that no one has any objection to taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u330	That saves the moods. Let's go to the motion on part number one. 436.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u331	In fact, I said earlier in the debate that if we can see that wider and take that into account in that very broad framework, it will also have an effect on Schiphol, because I will give this motion a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u332	The motion in part No. 437.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u333	It's about the bird movements around Lelystad. I can say that we are already very active in this area. I also indicated that we're using radar footage from the Department of Defense. So we are already fully monitoring and investigating. I would advise against this motion because, in my opinion, it is simply superfluous. Then the motion to part No. 438. That's actually the same thing. It's not necessary either, because we're already doing it. Safety is already fully secured in the legal pathways, because it goes for everything. So unnecessary and dissuade, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u334	That was the seventh motion in part No. 438. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u335	I have a brief clarifying question. This is about what you or I didn't say anymore: making the OVV proof of the solution that is being chosen. The OVV is not doing any research on these grounds; that really has to be done by another institution. So it goes a little further than the solution you choose by, for example, having the ILT checked. Of course you'll see if it's safe. The O.V.V. says don't do it. The minister says, "I'll do it." The motion is about that being checked. Because the OVV can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u336	No, but it's just secured in all the procedures we already have that security is paramount, that security is secured. I will stick to the judgment: dissuade because of being unnecessary. Then I come to the motion on part No. 439. I agree with the spirit of this and therefore I would like to give it a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-21.u337	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and others who have followed this debate through another medium. The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Thursday.
