ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u1	I once again welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister of Defence and give the floor to the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The answer will be as follows. After a very brief introduction I will discuss five topics, namely the TIB, the research assignment-related interception, the informants, the collaboration with abroad, including the weighing analyses and the new techniques. The remaining questions will then be dealt with in the order of the speakers, as far as I am concerned. Then Mr Hennis will answer in particular the subject matter of the retention periods and other questions put to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u3	Do you think we can finish the second term by 24:00?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u4	It won't be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u5	That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u6	That is why I shall be very brief about the introduction. Recent attacks in countries around us have shown that you can hardly have physical protection against this. When people ride into the public with trucks or a backpack filled with explosives in a crowded place cause an explosion, intelligence is almost the only means you have left to protect yourself from it. This is a breach of privacy, which, according to Article 10 of the Constitution, is only allowed if there is a legal basis for it. That's what we're talking about tonight. So this is an important subject. The current law and the present law state that the infringement must only be committed if it is necessary for national security, if it is subsidiary to other means and if there is proportionality between the use of resources on the one hand and the intended purpose on the other. The legal basis with which we are now working was devised about 20 years ago. The law was published in the Official Journal in 2002. For this reason, the powers of the services are obsolete and no longer the same as in our neighbouring countries, such as France, Germany and England. As Mr Van Hattem pointed out, it was a motion by his colleague Elissen and Mr Çörüz who initiated an evaluation of the law. That evaluation had already been initiated by the Dessens Commission when our cabinet took office. That committee has indeed concluded that it was time to come up with a new legal framework. The subtitle of their opinion was "A new balance sheet." We have already tried to rebalance the initial legislative proposal by extending the powers of bulk data collection on the one hand. On the other hand, however, we have also roughly doubled the supervisor's research formation, the CTIVD. To control the services, at least from my department, a separate unit has been set up which, apart from the AIVD, advises me on what should happen. There are retention periods and a complaint procedure has been introduced into the law. That already brought a balance to that new law. That law was then given in consultation. It turned out that there was a great call from society for an independent test to be carried out in advance, before special powers were deployed. We listened to that call. We modified the bill and came with the TIB. The intention was very strongly to make the judgement to use special powers not only come from the minister, but also from a non-political body in a decisive way. I shall now turn to the question of what that means for our system, but that was the very purpose with which we entered into the law. What is now ahead of us and with this I would like to conclude my introduction at the same time as this is a package that we believe is in balance, which we believe is workable for the services, the AIVD and the STUDY, and that it meets the requirements of the ECHR and which we aim to introduce as of 1 January 2018. We appreciate that you still want to deal with the law, despite this late hour. If you decide to support the bill, we can ensure that it can enter into force by January of next year. So much for the introduction, Mr President. It's short for such a big law. First of all, I come to an important subject. This law contains a new element which the current law does not know, namely the review of the use of special powers in a decisive way in advance by a new body established by law, the Review Committee on Bet Powers. Mr Rombouts asked how that committee relates to ministerial responsibility. Others asked for it. That's a logical question to start with. I shall then turn to the evaluation and equipment of the committee and to the relationship with other bodies, such as the CTIVD. The very short answer is that in the end the ministers always have a system of responsibility. In any case, they are responsible for a consistent and coherent system of steering the security services, but that is not the last word yet. I do not want to say things that Members already know, but if the services believe that there is a reason to use special powers, they can prepare a proposal that ends up in the Minister's office. If the Minister considers that it is necessary, subsidiary and proportionate to other means, then he gives the burden and mandate to use the funds. In the current law it stops there and the resources are then deployed, but in the new system the TIB can still look at it. There are a number of possibilities. If the TIB agrees with what the Minister has decided, then the ministerial responsibility is obviously simple. If the committee does not agree, the Minister could very well be persuaded by the argument. Article 38 (3) of the Act expressly states that the TIB must always justify a decision not to agree. It may well be that the Minister is persuaded by the argument and says: we have an independent test in advance; you are actually right; it was not right, not sensible, not necessary or useful, and that is why I am not doing it. He will then be fully responsible for the decision not to do so. The question mainly focused on the following. Suppose the minister would have wanted it, but the TIB says it can't. Then the legal framework implies that this is the characteristic of an independent, non-political ex ante test that the Minister cannot act counter-emptively. He may not do it, but he can't walk away with it. He can never say afterwards: I would have done it, but the TIB wouldn't let me do it. The TIB motivates why it shouldn't. The Minister is given that justification, but of course always has the opportunity to say: having heard this explanation of the rejection, I come up with a new proposal, which meets the arguments of the TIB. If the minister did not do so, if something happens afterwards and if the parliament then asks the minister why he did not do so, then the minister cannot say: it was not allowed by the TIB. He must explain why he did not come forward with a new proposal following the findings of the TIB. Ultimately, of course, there can be a situation in which there is a difference of opinion or assessment. Once again, what I have just said is that the essence of the law, as we deal with it here, is that the powers should not be used. That is the essence of the proposal as it is before us. I do not think it will happen soon, but that is the answer to Mr Rombouts and others' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u7	The minister says he can't walk away from that. With that he actually says that if the TIB does not agree, then he should take responsibility for it. The Committee's argument is that he says: okay, I'll just have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u8	No, I'm just trying to look at it from the other side. Suppose the TIB says it doesn't find it proportionate, and finds the means too great for the purpose it is intended to do. The ministerial responsibility means that the Minister does not stop there but goes back to his service, and thinks about it and wonders: can we not use a proportionate means to achieve the same goal? After all, that is the judgment of the TIB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u9	I understand that, but you outlined a case where the TIB had such an argument that you couldn't run away but in fact didn't do anything anymore. In cases like this, would you like to bear the ministerial responsibility for the fact that someone else says that you really shouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u10	Yes, we are jointly defending a law which means that there is an independent ex ante test, which is decisive. You cannot continue with the use of powers. I want to bear that responsibility. I would add that, firstly, the Minister can be persuaded by the arguments of the TIB. That's why the committee is there; it's not there for nothing. Secondly, the argument can be: not in this way. Then it is up to the Minister to decide how to do it and then to take full responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u11	Finally, Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr President, it may save me a second time, because this is the remaining point for us. Will the Minister consider giving to his successor in the coming years, or perhaps explaining to us in a letter, that this might still be a matter of reconsideration after this law has been enacted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr Van Kappen has also asked for a more rapid evaluation. I was going to admit that, so I can give you a preview of that. I think it is important to evaluate the entire facility, function and location of the TIB in the order not only in five years but in two years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u14	I would very much like to see one more aspect involved in the evaluation. The other point of criticism of the Council of State was that the TIB would carry out purely a legal review of legality, while the Minister also felt responsibility in the international field and it would be conceivable, on the basis of other aspects in a single emergency, that he would have wanted it beyond the TIB if it had been considered unlawful. Now I very much appreciate that the Minister has made the choice of independent ex ante review. I can imagine that, but I do not see the other aspect in the answer. It's one of the things I'm worried about. I hope, therefore, that he will show us how that works in the evaluation on that very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u15	The short answer is yes. I therefore agree that this evaluation may involve the intention of the law to allow the TIB to assess only the legality of that commitment. Whether it is also a priority, for example, is, of course, an additional argument that the Minister can take into account. So it can decide not to do anything anyway, because it does not think that it is the priority or that it wants to give priority to other things. Other considerations can also play a role, such as international cooperation, to which Mrs Bikker refers. But still it is for the sake of legality that the TIB carries out an additional and decisive test. But the short answer is yes. I agree that the evaluation can also focus on this point. Mrs. Beuving has asked how the TIB is embedded. It is an independent committee, which is independent of the CTIVD, but which, like the CTIVD, has to be housed in a place where the security is complete. The Ministry of General Affairs supports the TIB in the area of facilitation. We have already had written contact with each other on the appointment procedure. Let me promise that we will make sure that the TIB gets to a place where it can fully function, given that it works with state-secret information. If Mrs Beuving is okay with it, I will stick to that commitment for now. That doesn't necessarily have to be where the CTIVD is right now. Then there is an important point for Mrs Beuving, among others: the support of the TIB. Let me point out that we should try to avoid two cliffs. You don't want to set up a TIB with more support than is needed to get people to turn their thumbs or not need all their time. The opposite is true. That is the concern expressed by the Council of State. You wouldn't want it to be about rubber-stamping, dealing with it quickly, because people simply don't have time to look at it seriously. The appraisal between those two cliffs is, of course, where you are. As we intended, the TIB consists of three members. They are appointed to do so in substance, with a secretarial support. I have listened carefully to Mrs Beuving, who says that we should launch the TIB with broader support. I want to promise that. Let's do it in such a way that we add to the TIB a staff of three people, in terms of content, as well as up to two people, facility and support. That may be secretarial or otherwise facilityal. Then the TIB can get off to a good start; I'm really convinced of that. I would like to keep my finger on the wrist on both sides. If it turns out that this may not be all necessary, at some point there can be some shortening. On the other hand, if it turns out that it is not enough, then I will say that if the President of the TIB raises his finger and says that he cannot work properly, we or our successors will seriously reconsider that in the Trêveszaal. That's how I want to decorate it. Ms Bikker asked if the members of the TIB had sufficient knowledge to carry out their duties. Those people won't just be appointed. These will be people who already have extensive experience in checking legality and preferably also with the work of the security services. In addition, someone is asked with technical knowledge. Mr Van Hattem asked whether that would not be a judge. Let me understand this in such a way that it is intended that there should be alongside two people with a legal, judicial background someone who has specific technical knowledge. That's how I put it. That answers those questions. Mr Lintmeijer and Mr De Graaf asked why we did not opt for the CTIVD as a review body. We've been thinking about that very strongly. Of course, the CTIVD has all the expertise in the house, has knowledge of matters and has been cleared to have access to all state secret information. It would be an obvious choice in itself, but we would have that discussed extensively with the House of Representatives immediately after the evaluation of the Dessens Committee, an element in itself that the supervisor should supervise a process in which he himself has a line responsibility. He has to cut his own throat: is something legitimate or isn't it? Afterwards he has to look from the helicopter as a supervisor to see if all this has been pure coffee. Considering everything that seemed undesirable to us, we chose to set up a separate body by law. We have also considered bringing this into the judiciary, but this also encounters many practical objections, for example the fact that the jurisdiction of Dutch judges abroad does not apply. It has been a deliberate choice to decorate it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u16	That the government makes informed choices, thank goodness. I'll take that as a standard. That does not mean that I agree with that choice. I don't quite understand the choice yet. The Minister says that it is a bit strange that a supervisor who supervises the exercise also gives a judgment of legality on the front. But what's against that, anyway? A supervisory committee is independent, as independent as the TIB would be. She has knowledge of things. It can look into the capillaries of the services. It is much better to assess the context of a Minister's decision to use special powers than a committee which has only limited information, namely only on the legality of the commitment. It may then, if it finds that the Minister's decision is lawful, accompany the implementation of that decision, including its legality. What exactly is against it? There's not gonna be a job mix-up, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u17	The objection in the eyes of the cabinet and also of the House of Representatives is that the butcher then approves his own meat: a supervisor must subsequently consider in the supervisory role whether the process of burdening has been conducted correctly. Is that okay? Is that deep enough for you to dig? Are the right buttons being cut? That supervisor will then have to give an opinion on decisions that he himself has taken. We think that is unwise. This is without prejudice to all points made by Mr De Graaf on the competence, qualities and knowledge of the CTIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u18	I don't know if I think the butcher's metaphor and meat are entirely appropriate, but doesn't the minister's reasoning bite his own tail? Is the argument that it is a bit strange that the supervisor actually follows what he himself has assessed, not also for the fact that the CTIVD is given the binding complaint regime as its competence in the Minister's proposal? The CTIVD must then judge whether the services in which they have previously been accompanied and assessed by the same CTIVD on legality but also on efficiency et cetera. Isn't that the same weird double that you reject on the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u19	Let us at least point out that this is another matter. We are now talking about the right of complaint. That is a different matter than the one that decides on burden-sharing. I actually intended to come back to this later, but I can also say it now. You could indeed create an independent complaints institution, but it should have access to all state secrets and should have expertise in all those areas. At some point, you create a lot of agencies that all have access to state secrets. It is therefore explicitly the choice of the cabinet and again, also of the House of Representatives, but otherwise we would not be here to invest this with the CTIVD and to make sure that they are not the same people as the people who play the supervisory role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u20	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u21	I don't dispute that sometimes the House of Commons thinks differently from people in the House of Commons. That is true, but that is not a decisive argument as far as I am concerned. I mean to say that if the Minister finds it problematic that the TIB function is exercised by the CTIVD because it would mean some kind of confusion and mix-up, it is strange that the same cabinet does give the CTIVD the right to complain. After all, there is the same kind of mixing and bridging. I was trying to make that clear. Let me put it this way: that is not entirely consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u22	In addition, let me say that there really is an order of magnitude or two orders of magnitude that differs from the regular accord of all the burdens that are given and the handling of a complaint. If you are systematically in line to say each time that a burden has been correctly given by the Minister and that you agree with it, your position will run out and then say as a supervisor: let's see if it all happened in the right way. In any case, that is the reasoning behind the proposal before us. I talked about the reinforcement and occupation of the TIB. I believe that I am done with this, apart from the very important commitment to the VVD group, to Mr Van Kappen. He asked for an independent evaluation to be carried out specifically on the TIB, the supervisor, in two years' time. That's what I'm telling you. It's a new institution, a new body. We need to get some experience with that M.O. You can go either way, and you can have questions about that, but I promise we'll do that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u23	I had also asked the Minister to address the problem of the legal unit raised by several bodies. This seems to me to be something we can see after a while whether it works or not. The Minister has not yet gone into that at all. I'd like to hear his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u24	That's a good point. That legal unit must also be established. I have already indicated in the written reply that I do not want to achieve that legal unit by making a hierarchical relationship, i.e. by letting the CTIVD be the boss of the TIB, but I imagine that there is regular consultation between the supervisor and the TIB, so that there is a legal unit. However, it is not intended that the CTIVD will repeat the individual case assessments of the TIB. That division of labour must be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u25	In the written answer, the story was first that the CTIVD could no longer say anything about the legality assessment of the TIB. Later, the Minister nuanced that. It may happen that there is a difference in this. How does the Minister deal with this in the long term, if he sees more and can say a little bit more about it, because one case is not yet a story to the parliament and the parliamentary responsibility that the Chamber bears?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u26	The CTIVD is overseeing the whole process. I do not want to give the impression that the CTIVD should not be supervised until the burden has been borne. The CTIVD may, of course, monitor all stages of the process. That is not only the legal task of the CTIVD. This may mean that the CTIVD intends to conduct a systematic investigation into how the burden is actually incurred or how it is substantiated what is placed in such a burden or another supervisory question. The wishlessness would only appear when the CTIVD starts to say per case: the minister considers this necessary, subsidiary and proportional to the objective set and the TIB agrees, but the CTIVD does not. Then there would be a double. I understand Mrs Bikker in such a way that this is without prejudice to the fact that the supervisor can, of course, monitor all stages of the service's activity. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u27	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u28	There is still a risk that there will still be a difference between the TIB's judgement on the legality and determination of the CTIVD at a later date. I'm just gonna stay away from the level of abstraction. I want to know how the Minister reports to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u29	First of all, I think there should be regular consultations between the two bodies. We will assess in two years' time whether this consultation will lead to a sufficient legal unit. If there really is a problem, I mean not once a difference of appraisal, but a clash; Mrs Bikker makes that gesture, I will say that I will report it to the Chamber. In fact, the Chamber could say that it does not know anything about it, because this is partly done in confidentiality. So I will report this to the Chamber in the appropriate channels, if necessary, and otherwise in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u30	I actually had another question, but I'm going into this point. The CTIVD can oversee the whole process, says the Minister, but not the individual burden approved by the TIB. I'm just gonna say it in my words. Doesn't that really make it more complex than it needs to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u31	I don't understand. We're making it easier. Everyone has their own job in this order. The assignment of burden, i.e. an assignment, must be done by the Minister. The TIB is then the body that assesses whether that burden has been lawfully granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u32	The CTIVD may establish whether the system is functioning properly, but the CTIVD cannot establish....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u33	That's right. Everyone has their own place in this order. Therefore, the CTIVD's task is not to take up case for case and say: you think that is legitimate, but the CTIVD is not or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u34	Whether you think that's simpler or more complex, I'll leave it to the Minister. I had also asked a question about the same problem as with the TIB, namely: are there sufficient resources in the CTIVD? Maybe the minister's gonna come up with that. The question of whether they will be able to do it with the agreed funds is something I would like to take directly into account in the evaluation. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u35	Actually, I wasn't going to. We have doubled the research budget for the CTIVD in recent years. I have already given the exact figures in the written answer. I'm going to browse for a while, but actually I'd like to refer to that. So we do not intend to evaluate this in advance. I don't see any reason for that either. If there is any reason to do so, a future cabinet can, of course, always do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u36	Very briefly, Mr Lintmeijer, because you still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u37	My question was: if we are going to evaluate whether the system is financially viable, let us take it with us right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u38	I have promised that we will evaluate the situation with regard to the TIB and I have not made any specific commitments on the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u39	My question is whether the Minister also thinks he has answered the questions about the role of the TIB in the research mission-oriented investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u40	I would be happy to provide additional answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u41	In that case, I would also ask the Minister to answer our two questions. One is whether he agrees with the Council of State and many others that the TIB, with its limited powers, is capable of more than a marginal test of legality. Or does he think he can refute that criticism? My second question is why there are no criteria to be met by these research mission-oriented investigations, so that the TIB can take these criteria into account in its legality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u42	The answer to the first question is yes. It is a full test and that is also explicitly the intention. I have also just promised that we will expand the support formation, so as to remove any doubt that one can carry out a full test of what the Minister has tested and what he or she has given a fiat to by means of a burden. I think that with three members of the TIB, three substantive supporters and then two facilities staff will come to an end. Then the answer to the second question; whether there are any criteria. I have already mentioned these criteria in my introduction. That is: whether it is necessary for national security, or whether it is subsidiary to the use of other means and whether it is proportionate. In the House of Representatives, the Recourt motion added that it should be as targeted as possible. The CTIVD has also found that this is a feasible criterion, so that it can also carry out an operational review.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u43	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u44	I assume that the Minister is aware that he is not answering my question. Those criteria generally apply in the case of a legality test; not only in the case of this law. The question is why there are no criteria to be met by a research mission-oriented research, for example as regards the geographical area in which all material may be collected in bulk, or as regards both domestic and international research etc. It is about those kinds of criteria; how wide can this research-oriented task be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u45	It has been explicitly chosen not to become geographically binding now. The legal framework applies to domestic and foreign tasks, as it used to be called. It applies to STIVD and AIVD. You can't say it shouldn't be more than 50 kilometers, for example. That is not the nature of the criteria. The criteria remain those I have just mentioned, supplemented by the Recourt motion, which means that it should be as targeted as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u46	I would like to return to the Minister's remark that the CTIVD and TIB each have their roles; that it is not intended that the CTIVD should establish case-based legality. I invite the Minister to indicate where the bill states that the CTIVD does not have that competence. Is it not true that the legislative proposal is based on the full competence of the CTIVD, i.e. the legality of the whole? It is therefore up to the CTIVD, even though the Minister would not like to work on a case-by-case basis, if she wanted to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u47	I am not going to add or detract from the legal powers of the CTIVD, but my view is clear. It seems unwise to me that the CTIVD is going to duplicate the casework of the TIB, because first you have the minister who gives the burden, then the TIB who determines its legality and then again the CTIVD which is going to do it all over again. That seems to me to be extremely useless and unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u48	I'm really interested in finding the law. Then the Minister and I agree that it may be unwise and that the CTIVD should also handle its efforts and resources well, but that it is not legally excluded. It is therefore not the case that the law is based on an exclusive legality judgment of only the TIB, because the jurisdiction of the CTIVD as defined in the law leaves all space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u49	No, you can't conclude that. I have just said to Mr Rombouts that the responsibility of the Minister implies that if the TIB does not grant permission and he would nevertheless do so, he would act counter-emptively. Of course, that is not allowed. The supervisor has a different role and competence and may have views, but that does not relieve the Minister of the obligation to use special resources if he considers that this is necessary for national security and then the TIB agrees with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u50	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u51	Now the Minister answers a question I didn't ask. I am concerned with the question of whether the law does not limit the competence and the task of the CTIVD, regardless of the legal consequences, for example, of the TIB's judgement. In fact, if the TIB finds that the Minister's decision to engage was unlawful, the decision shall automatically lapse. This does not apply to the CTIVD, but it can judge the whole range, including the legality at the front, if the CTIVD itself decides to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u52	Such a judgment would not have any legal effect, that is precisely the point. The Minister must impose a burden, otherwise the AIVD or STIVD may not act. The consent of the TIB is required, otherwise one should not act. The CTIVD has a supervisory role. If she said you shouldn't do it, it wouldn't have any legal effect. That's what I've just been trying to explain. In doing so, I have discussed the subject of the TIB as one of the two new elements in the new balance sheet, namely the independent ex ante judgement in the use of special powers. The other of course is the research assignment-related interception. I'd like to try to be as brief as possible about that. Mr Lintmeijer seemed to suggest that this means that the services can open all letters. I hear this wasn't the case. Then I don't have to respond to it either. Because that's not the case. The law is specifically designed to operate in three stages. The research assignment-related interception may relate to large datasets, but basically implies that the content is not yet available. During the treatment in the Lower House I mentioned as an example that you are trying to find out who new Syrians or potential jihadists are by mapping such a network. Then you cannot have access to, for example, the content of telephone calls. Once these data have been collected, you will need a second new burden, assignment, which is also subject to prior consent and supervision of the CTIVD on the system as a whole, before you process that data. It is only in the third phase that you can get to the content, for example if you have the impression that behind a certain telephone number is someone who is an important spider in the web of the network of terrorists. That's what we want to put a burden on to put a tap in. Then, according to the existing frameworks, it is decided to use a targeted tap. So we are two procedural and legal steps away from seeing the Internet behaviour or the mail of people or other things on a large scale. Those things are therefore very clearly separated from each other. The spokesperson of the PVV has asked how these research assignments are made as sharp as possible. Integrated instructions for the services may be drawn up. They consist of a number of thematic areas with detailed objectives. These always fit within the legal remit of the AIVD and the STUDY. The services translate these into research assignments. So you can talk about this extensively, but that is the crux of this story. Then I come to Mrs Beuving's important question about metadata. First of all, let me say that she is right to point out that positive and negative selection can be viewed in terms of content. In negative selection, for example, we can say that everything that goes on on the Internet when it comes to Netflix film series is destroyed immediately; we can't even save it because we don't have the capacity for it and it's no use at all. Conversely, for example, keywords can be used to determine which parts of the overall package should not be disposed of immediately. With regard to metadata, Mrs Beuving rightly points out that you should not want to do that. It is about identifying unknown threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u53	There is also a bit of the crux, also in relation to what the minister said before. I can see why there's a hink-step-jump in it before you actually go into that data. The problem from the ordinary citizen's perspective is that all kinds of algorithms are applied that are related to those keywords. This combination of keywords and metadata leads to a relatively easy way for experts to obtain a great deal of data from the privacy of many people. It's that combination of looking up algorithms and keywords, combined with metadata, that can still give a pretty quick and quite penetrating picture of what someone's up to, even if there's nothing else going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u54	The difference with what Mr Lintmeijer says is that it is not about all kinds of people. At that time, it is not clear which person it is talking about, nor does it have the authority to find out who it would be. If one sees someone who watches a lot of decapitation videos and does a few negative things, one still cannot say: we look them up in the phone book. This requires a separate burden, in the sense of: we have now collected those metadata and we now want to conduct an analysis on them in this way. This also builds on the fact that the image that Mr Lintmeijer would be concerned about cannot be created and that I also, as happened with Nine-Eleven, will collect very large-scale and unfocused data and just look at what they encounter. According to this law, this must not be allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u55	I do think that there is a difference between the research-oriented interception and the more exploratory investigations that make the law possible and in which it does. Then you want to find patterns about where people google and exchange emails with acquaintances. Then the algorithms will do their job, just because you don't know where it is yet. Then you certainly have an intervention in bulk data linked to metadata where that danger does arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u56	I would like to finish my reply to Mrs Beuving, because I think that will help Mr Lintmeijer. I was just trying to explain it before he interrupted me. Let's say you want to portray new jihadist threats. You know a number of people with phone numbers who you know are in frequent contact. You're going to collect metadata about what number you're calling, for example from the Netherlands to Syria, and you're going to do that for a month. Then you will of course see that you can recognize the numbers from some of the well-known customers who are sitting there. Then it may be that they all call five other people, from whom we do not know who is hiding behind that song and where there is a striking pattern that they call again very often with another song of which we also do not know who is hiding behind it. The purpose of such an operation can therefore be to then give a new burden to the person behind that number. That could be a pizza courier, but it could also be someone who plays a very important role in that network as facilitator or spider in the web. There must therefore be a new weighting or there must be sufficient evidence to suggest that such a person does indeed play a central role in that network. Then it may be that a new burden is being given because it is proportionate and necessary to check through that phone number who that person is. You could also put in a tap to find out information. Then it may indeed be so that that person is completely innocent. Then that information will be destroyed immediately and the tap will also be stopped. That obligation is there; it is stated in the law. However, there could also be evidence that it is someone who is a threat, but has so far been unknown. That is the intended benefit of using metadata analysis. That brings with it what Mrs Beuving rightly pointed out, namely that at the reduction stage you reduce the content, but not on the traffic data for the time being, because it is your intention to get that unknown telephone number in the picture, for example, and then decide if you want to find out who is hiding behind it. I'm trying to keep up the momentum. The CTIVD raised further questions on how the data should be considered. I replied to that in the reply. Perhaps I could refer to that briefly. I note that the CTIVD itself has informed the House of Representatives that it appreciates that clarity. That is what I am referring to for short time. Mr De Graaf asked why I had his party colleague Verhoeven's amendment to item No. 34 in the House of Representatives. That amendment states that data must not be systematically acquired on a large scale. I did not recommend that amendment because I do not necessarily consider both criteria to be objectionable in advance. The large-scale collection of information is, of course, at the heart of the research assignment-related interception. That happens on a large scale. Again, so do all our neighbouring countries, and that is what we consider necessary. It may be necessary for it to be done systematically. Suppose that off the coast of Somalia that is not my portfolio of pirates are systematically engaged in attacking merchant ships, then it may be useful to try systematically to obtain information about it. So I did not recommend the amendment because of both criteria. That is my answer to this question. This was my second block. Mrs Beuving and Mr Köhler asked about Rule 39 and the informants. I think I can meet them and also take away a misunderstanding from the written reply. Mrs Beuving rightly pointed out that the written answer could give the impression that the breach of privacy is different for the citizen when it takes place on the basis of a burden and the use of powers, rather than when it is done by an agent or an informant. It was the wording "then too." I agree it's not right. That is not the reason for making a distinction on this point. Let me explain it in two sentences for those who do not know what I am talking about. The deployment of an agent requires a burden. An agent is a person who acts on behalf of the service, collects information or does something. That can only be done if a burden has been placed on it. However, addressing an informant or being addressed by an informant is part of the daily tasks of the service. There is no separate charge for this, no separate task to be given. When someone's information is provided to the AIVD, it does not matter for the breach of privacy that I agree with whether that has been done by order of the AIVD, i.e. by an agent, or by someone, for example, voluntarily picking up the phone. It does matter for the legality of government transactions. If someone picks up the phone and says "I'm an imam and I have someone in my community that I'm very worried about," the department doesn't have to say: sorry, I have to interrupt this conversation, because I have to have a problem first, otherwise I can't be informed. In the reverse case, when the service addresses someone and asks "would you like to look into this for us and work for us from now on?" There must be a burden. This is the case in the current law, and it may be so in the future law. The follow-up to the answer to Mrs Beuving's question is that I can imagine that asking someone to cooperate will actually lead to someone doing something that, if the service did it itself, would have to be burdened, so that there is a special competence. I want to make a commitment that if that is the case, the authorisation will be given at the same level as if there were indeed an act of the AIVD itself. Suppose someone can hack very well and the AIVD says, "Would you do us a favor and hack this or that?" Then that should only be done when it is done under the hacking conditions, so as if it were a hack done by the service itself. That's what I'm telling you. This also applies to the case where someone can access a database. If the AIVD asks if that person would like to look at certain things from now on, it is something other than an informant who says: gosh, I sometimes want to tell you something about what is happening in our street. I would therefore like to make this commitment. So much for the role of informants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u57	I want it as concrete as possible. In Article 39, I have the example of AIVD contacting a roc, i.e. with a school community, and asking for certain information or direct access to a data system. Does this apply to what the Minister has just said, that is to say, that the same safeguards apply to them as the safeguards that apply at the level of comparable powers that the service would use directly without the help of this third party?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u58	If the question were to have access to certain databases, that would be something that if the service would do that independently, would always ask for a burden. That is so in a similar way. If a teacher is asked what it is like in the classroom and if he is worried about someone, then there may be voluntary sharing of information without an assignment being given. Then it falls within the scope of Article 39. My highly valued colleague of defense will answer the questions about the retention periods. My penultimate point concerns the sharing of information with abroad. That is, of course, a point that we have paid a great deal of attention to. We can still build in so many guarantees and supervision, but we also need to be able to share our data with neighbouring countries. Frankly, that is also inevitable and necessary. Because most of the threats we face are also international, we must also be able to deal with them internationally. So we need to be able to share data over and over again, but we can't just do that. There are some locks on the door. First of all, we should only share data that has been legally collected. We have just discussed this in detail. So it should never be possible for a foreign service to say: gosh, tap this or that for us. That would not meet the three strokes of requirements that have just been mentioned. We only work with reliable partners. A weighing analysis is made of this in advance. I will come back to that in a moment, because they were asked about it. The Minister shall authorise the exchange of such information. That's new in the law. When I arrived, I was surprised that I had to sign for every phone number being tapped, but that sharing large datasets with a foreign service does not require ministerial approval. We have now laid down in the law that that is necessary. Finally, the CTIVD naturally monitors the exchange of such data. Mr Van Kappen, Mrs Bikker and Mr De Graaf have asked why this transitional period is still in the law. Let me start by saying that there are now weighting notes and that they are valid and will continue to apply. So it's not like there's gonna be a vacuum. The situation as it is today, even without this law, would continue for a maximum period of two years. I'll be right back on that "maximum." Secondly, cooperation will never be established with a new country or service without a weighting note being established according to the new frameworks of this law. Why can't it all be stante pede? Because a new framework was created in the CTIVD's report at the end of 2016. It also included a number of new criteria, such as the legal powers of the service with which it cooperates and the level of data protection in that service. In order to clarify all these criteria, this information must be obtained from all those countries. We cannot have them on our own; for this we must enter into dialogue with the partners. That will take some time, but I will tell the Chamber that we will do so as soon as possible. We will, of course, start with the most important services, and we will ensure that, as soon as that is completed, we will continue to work by this method. Of course, the supervisor can supervise that. Finally, I say to the Court that it is not intended to wait two years with all these weighing analyses. The intention is to bring them into being from now on and therefore to take up to two years to finalize it for the last services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u59	For my understanding, I hear the Minister saying that there are already weighting notes for the services that are now working together. They simply go on and therefore do not fall under the transitional provision, because they are just there. Is that right? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u60	I just said that; that's right. I have added that the CTIVD report 48 shows that additional criteria are needed for the weighing analyses. We've all incorporated them into this law. If Mr De Graaf votes in favour of that, then there is broad support for those criteria in the law and then there will be compliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u61	So that actually means that two things must happen, if I understand correctly. The weighting notes for the existing services need to be supplemented, and for new cooperation relationships weighing notes need to be created at all. Let me get this straight. Then the question to which priority is given. That two-year period is very long; I am not the only one who thinks so. That's some kind of legal vacuum. In the meantime, information could be exchanged without weighing notes. Isn't it possible to set some sort of priority? Can we not say: for the countries and services with which we cooperate the most, we do it first, and then we are not going to transfer to services that we do not yet know and with which we have to start the conversation; we simply do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u62	To all three questions, the answer is yes. For countries for which weighting notes have already been drawn up, these notes will have to meet the criteria laid down in the new law within the next two years. Cooperation with countries with which cooperation is not yet in progress should only take place if there is a weighting note on the basis of the new regime. I also said just now that we will put the most important services first in prioritizing and establishing the weighting notes. We've already started that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mr De Graaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u64	This is my last question. I still don't know if I understand. Is the Minister saying that in the case of new cooperation relationships where no weighting notes exist, no information is yet transferred? Or does he say: no, we just have the two-year transitional provision; in those two years information can be shared, even if there is no weighting note yet? Isn't that what that transitional provision was supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u65	If information is not yet shared with certain countries, there must be a reason for this. Then we don't suddenly share information without a weighting note. For the record, we do not systematically share large datasets with Yemen. Only if someone is taken hostage will we contact that country to see if there is anything we can do to help those involved, but there is no systematic sharing of data. We're not going to. There are countries with which we already work systematically. These are, for example, our neighbours or allies elsewhere in the world. The answer to the question is therefore affirmative. Then I'll go to my penultimate block soon. Then I come to the remaining questions on my property. I hope my colleague will then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u66	If this was the last point on international exchange, then I have a brief question. The law will soon allow data not yet analysed, provided that they have been legally collected, to be made available to allies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u67	This can be done if the Minister gives a mandate to do so. If the cooperation complies with what is stated in the weighting note, then that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u68	If, for example, a NATO member like Turkey gets access to these dates and lets go of his own filters, there will be a different situation than we are used to here. What are the guarantees and guarantees that things like that don't happen? Those dates will be there. They have been legally collected here, but the way in which they are processed there, I do not want to repeat what I said earlier about the analyses that you can release on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u69	Without going into the case: it could be that the weighting note for one country leads to a different conclusion than for the other country as to the nature of the data exchanged. In doing so, legal status, human rights and the degree of professional secrecy will be taken into account, in addition to the new criteria I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u70	Finally, Mr Lintmeijer, you have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u71	Could that mean that, with regard to countries where we think they all have a little less good for each other than we do, we say: no, they do not get those unfiltered data, although in principle the law makes that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u72	Exactly. The intensity of the collaboration is, of course, determined by the weighting notes. I come to Mrs Bikker's question about new techniques. To be honest, I have tried to keep myself as far away from examples of techniques as possible in parliamentary treatment, because it is precisely the intention of the law to make technology independent. To some extent we are now standing here because there was a difference between cable and ether in the previous law. At the same time, I do understand a question like: how close can you get? Does not wanting to undermine the integrity of the human body mean that the data of a smartwatch is counted or not? That's gonna be endless, so I stayed away from it. I can imagine Mrs Bikker saying: I think it would be useful to look back at the evaluation and say: what has this led to and would the Minister undertake to do so? This seems to me to be a reasonable undertaking, to which I would add that some of the information may have to be given confidentially through the appropriate channels, as it may shed light on the mode of operation of the service. It seems to me that we can commit to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u73	I think that is a valuable commitment, thank you for that. As far as those bodily possibilities are concerned, I believe it was suggested that this would be about pacemakers and so on. I cannot imagine what a service would do, but I would very much like to hear a firm statement from the Minister that where physical integrity is at stake, an ethical debate must first take place in Parliament. Whether it is public or private will depend entirely on the case. On that point, I would also like to hear the Minister, with great appreciation for his response in the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u74	Thank you for that. The integrity of the human body is enshrined in all human rights treaties. So it is also for the services. What I would like to stay away from is the question where exactly does this all start and ends. Is that with a directional microphone in a wheelchair? How close do you need to get before there's any breach of that integrity? I do not wish to go into this case. I hope that is understandable, but in general I agree with the statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u75	I do not want to go into the modus operandi, which neither of us have any use for, but I am concerned with the firm statement that, at the time we get too close to the human body, which is something other than a wheelchair, there will always be a conversation with Parliament first. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u76	Yes. I would like to point out, once again, that this may be through the appropriate channels, but we agree on this. Then I'll get my last set of answers. Those are the answers to questions that do not belong to any of the cubes. So I'm gonna do that fast. Mr Van Kappen asked for the support of the 20 million. This is an estimate that the services have made of what they could and would like to do under the new law, at first instance. It could be that, over time, more budget is needed. As far as national security is concerned, in general terms, the following applies. I've said that before. If the services say 'we cannot work in this way and we need more budget, because otherwise we cannot do our job as laid down in the designation', they can come forward and find a willing ear in the cabinet. This has always been the case over the past few years. Mr Van Kappen asked about cooperation in the Kingdom and a possible intelligence fusion centre. I agree with Mr van Kappen that good structural cooperation between the countries of the Kingdom is essential. There is and it is good, of course, all under different circumstances, but we are not going to lay that down in the law. Neither does Mr Van Kappen. We started the Counter Terrorism Group internationally a few years ago. That was a Dutch initiative and the Netherlands has also been in charge of it for a long time. This will enable the real-time exchange of intelligence on terrorism within Europe. That is the most far-reaching form of cooperation we have internationally. In general, we always do this bilaterally. That's how I'd like to keep it in the Kingdom. Here too, we have had to weigh up the degree of confidentiality and so on. We therefore agree with this comment. Mrs Beuving asked another technical question, namely whether that cable interception would also involve a physical breach of the cable, which could lead to the risk of others using it. The point at which interception takes place must, of course, be determined on a case-by-case basis. Clearly, it has to be somewhere on an internet node, otherwise you can't get enough. There will also have to be consultation with the providers in the field of survey-focused interception, as stated in the law, in order to determine what are the best points to interpret. One of the aspects that we will specifically take with us, I say, is whether it is in a safe place. Indeed, we do not need to have access to the service, which is then used by others to extract information from it. I agree with that point. GroenLinks asked for reports after the law entered into force. There's a lot of them. The services are all issuing a public annual report with a secret part to the extent necessary. It discusses the task and outcome of the service in that year and then discusses it if necessary. Usually that's the case. The General Court carries out the audit of the service's budget and reports on it both in public and in confidentiality. The CTIVD oversees the implementation of the legality and sends reports to the Parliament and finally, the new TIB to be set up will also publish an annual report in public. This is therefore reported extensively. Mr Lintmeijer asked about the commitment to investigate the number recognition system. That's what we're doing. In the meantime, there has been a discussion with the Dutch order of lawyers and the follow-up agreement is in place. That's the state of play there. Mr. De Graaf asked about the difference between destroyed data and deleted data. The data acquired through research assignments should be immediately destroyed if they are not relevant or have not been examined for relevance within the retention period. Destroyed data can never be found again; the destruction is irreversible. You do have the notion of deleted data. They are no longer accessible to the regular business process, i.e. for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the services, but in fact they still exist. I repeat, however, that the concept we are working with here for data that is not relevant is 'destruction'. Then they won't be able to surface. I have gone into the concept of "targeted research." Mr De Graaf, Mrs Bikker and Mr Van Kappen have asked a question about the right of complaint and why we are not investing it with the Ombudsman, but with the CTIVD. In fact, I have just given the answer in the case of interruption: we want to keep the number of authorities that have access to state secrets somewhat limited. You can't just say to the Ombudsman: gosh, just do it. No, you have to create a whole system around it, in which it all remains secret first and in which, secondly, the necessary expertise is provided. We have made the choice to place that with the CTIVD, but to do so by creating an internal separation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u77	But the Ombudsman already had access and I have never heard that problems would have arisen. In the Minister's reply, I miss the perspective of the citizen, for whom the CTIVD has a very different load for the most part it will be unknown, moreover, than the National Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u78	Yes, it is, but the Ombudsman does not have access to state secrets. He's not authorized to do that. He may receive complaints about the treatment, for example, but not about the action of the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u79	Yes, but the Ombudsman now handles the complaints of the services, some ten. We have already exchanged this in the written reply. I believe that the Ombudsman is doing this satisfactorily and is focusing on restoring trust, one of the most important things in dealing with complaints. That is exactly where my group's concern lies, from the point of view of the citizen, when you invest this with the CTIVD. I hope the Minister will be able to say a little more about this, because I am concerned about this now. I have more or less made an offer to the Minister by saying that this is typically something I would find extremely important in an evaluation. Do citizens still find the way if they want to make a complaint and restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u80	Let me then, perhaps in an attempt to draw Mrs Bikker's line, promise that we will involve this in the evaluation. We will also make an explicit assessment from the citizen's point of view of whether it is indeed perceived as an obstacle to lodging a complaint with the CTIVD. That's what I'm saying. Mr Köhler asked why additional guarantees were not provided for Members of Parliament. There are many categories of civil servants in society who can in one way or another have a relationship of trust with citizens. This concerns doctors, teachers, spiritual leaders and indeed politicians. For all of them, they can't just be compromised in their privacy. This can only be done when it is necessary for national security, when it cannot be done in any other way and when it is proportionate. The mere fact that someone sits somewhere in a city council or else plays a political role does not exempt him from the supervision of the service when this is necessary for national security. However, it can play a role in the proportionality test; I do not know whether I would immediately make Mr Köhler a great advocate of this law with that argument, but let me try. When it comes to the proportionality test, one can say that it is quite a matter of violating the confidentiality of a city council member or a Member of Parliament, so that must be badly needed for national security. The political function can play a role in this aspect of the assessment. The supervisor can assess whether that is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u81	Thank you for this answer, but that doesn't take away my problem. I did not argue that people's representatives could not at any time be the object of the work of the security and intelligence services. I asked whether, if for very serious reasons, it is not wise to always pass a judicial test. Does the Minister himself not find it difficult to agree to spying on his political opponents? Would it not also be better for the Minister to carry out an independent judicial test of the need for that espionage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u82	It's not about political opponents. It must be necessary for national security. The purpose must not be served in any other way, so you must not be able to see the relevant threat in any other way, and it must be proportionate. Moreover, the question of whether someone is a politician can play a role in the proportionality test. It can also play a role if a person is, for example, a psychiatrist of someone, the one with whom someone pours out all his confidentiality into the firm certainty that it stays in the treatment room. For example, there are still a number of categories. Maybe you can think about confession, too. I'm from Catholics' house and I remember that. That is the place where you are supposed to share your sins in complete openness, but if, for the sake of national security, a breach of the privacy of the person receiving the confession does not require a prior judicial test. However, if your Chamber agrees, the TIB will re-examine its legality. In doing so, the TIB will consider proportionality, as I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr Köhler, you have no further question? That's gonna come in second term? Very well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u84	Finally, I come to the last question, also from Mr Köhler, which is why the information on the source of a journalist is not immediately destroyed. This law contains an independent judge's test in advance. There isn't, but you'll be there when you pass this law. Permission must be given by the court of The Hague before the source of a journalist can be traced. Anyway, if the court gives that permission and the minister gives that burden, then there will be a reason for that. Then, of course, it is not wise to destroy that data immediately. So there's an extra lock on the door. I believe that I have answered all the questions I have asked, but I will stand still for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u85	Perhaps I do not do justice to the division of roles between the two rulers, but I believe that I still have a question that was addressed to the Minister of the Interior, namely the question about the responsible data limitation and the test of relevance. After a whole line of reasoning in line with the reply and the further reply, my question concerns in particular the two concerns, the two points of the CTIVD and what the Minister thinks of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u86	I said a few words about it, namely that I responded to it in the further reply. The president of the CTIVD then stated in the Lower House that he would find a satisfactory description and agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u87	The point was still contained in the letter of 22 March. from the CTIVD to this Chamber. That was after the treatment in the Lower House. The absence of a substantive assessment in research-oriented interception and the retention period of three years if there is no obvious irrelevantness emerge, are two problems according to the CTIVD. There is a difference in the system when you have to destroy the targeted powers, for which a period of one year applies. The CTIVD also says that it will not be able to supervise. I interpret it like this. If the CTIVD reports for supervision, the services can always say: we have not assessed that, so we can keep it. The CTIVD cannot say: you store too much, you have too much. The services then immediately call out: we do not have to assess it in substance either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u88	I have answered it in substance, but the question is whether the CTIVD also believes that it is capable of doing so. My final information is that she has confirmed this towards the House of Representatives. I'll verify it just in case. Otherwise, I will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about something, and I'm glad I'm taking part anyway. It's about our national security. The intervention of the armed forces has also been discussed here and there in the first term. I would like to emphasise that. It will be clear to everyone that the rapid emergence and the global spread of digital technology have far-reaching consequences for the entire Dutch society, including the Dutch government, and thus for the action of our armed forces and, as a result, the action of the Dutch intelligence and security services. I believe it is crucial that our services can continue to carry out their tasks effectively and effectively even in the digital age, naturally within the limits of the law and with respect for privacy. Those who know me a little longer and a little better know that I am not exactly about one night of ice when it comes to privacy and the right safeguards. As far as I am concerned, this subject is at the heart of our democratic rule of law. We will always be aware of this from this cabinet. Of course, I am not going to repeat my BZK colleague's speech. He has already spoken extensively about a number of safeguards. Of course, I agree with him, but I would like to emphasise that the cabinet did not exactly go ice over one night. Now, let's see if we can get a little sense and a little need for the Defense Department. In 2002, the restriction in the Wiv still had relatively little significance. Today, this restriction means that the majority of all telecommunications are by definition excluded from the sight of the Dutch services, because a very large proportion of these telecommunications have moved from the air to cable and thus to cyberspace since the introduction of the Wiv in 2002. Those threats are all over the newspapers: they are now full of them, every day they are real in cyberspace. They affect citizens, businesses, governments and institutions. They're gonna hit the D.O.D., too. I think it is clear to everyone that it is really very important that we recognise cyber threats in good time, that this is essential for our national security, for the actions of our troops and for our cybersecurity. In the digital age, with all those mobile means of communication and complex networks, it is a fact that we see that our services are rapidly becoming blind and deaf. I really don't want to be naive about that. If you look at experiences in other European countries that have already regulated access to cable services, think of Germany and Sweden, of course not certain countries governed by reprehensible regimes, you will see the importance of that access to cable. This shows the importance of this in identifying unprecedented threats and also the timely identification of known threats. I would like to mention just a few moments later that I will go to answer the specific questions: two examples relating to STUDY in particular. That's first of all supporting our military on mission. In Asia, Africa and the Middle East, too, these are all areas in which our Dutch soldiers are fully active. The use of the internet and mobile devices.......................................................................................................................................... Modern and broadband networks are also being set up in and near conflict zones. I say, from my responsibility as Secretary of Defense, that we really cannot afford to provide our military with an incomplete information position and to send them half blind or completely blind into a conflict area, with all the consequences. I have another example, namely the fight against digital espionage and, for example, sabotage. Almost all cyber-threats, I've already said it's already gone over the cable. This concerns, for example, malware by state actors and sometimes even by non-state actors, who seek, for example, Dutch state secrets or secret information from defence order companies. I think the Chamber knows very well, as I do, that the attribution of detected attacks is an extremely complex matter, for which access to the cable is really important. When we talk about sabotage of, for example, the vital infrastructure, even that threat is real, that's not exactly my fantasy, we really can't afford it. If such an attack is successful, its disruptive and far-reaching consequences are evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u90	I assume that the Minister speaks all these words in defence of this bill that we are now debating. If she says that we cannot afford to send our soldiers blindly into the field, she is actually saying that we should therefore adopt this law. Then she also says that she apparently under the current law has sent all those soldiers blindly into the field. Does she really want to say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u91	I said "half-blind or completely blind." I have also indicated that communication is increasingly moving from the air to the cable. I say, however, that if we do nothing now, we will send the military out with incomplete information. I am not going to take responsibility for this, so at some point we will be able to use our military more and more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u92	Yes. I do not think this is a very clear response to my interruption, but there is nothing I can do about it. However, I would like to point out to the Minister that the cable can be tapped under the current law as well. It is not the case that the services are not now able to tap communication via cable at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u93	Interesting. I'm finishing my introduction. Good intelligence support by the STUDY is therefore crucial for Defence and for the military in a broad sense in order to carry out the tasks properly. It is not for nothing that the Dessens Committee concluded that the 2002 Wiv was obsolete. A number of questions have been asked about the retention period, in particular during research assignment-oriented interception. I've heard a lot about the three-year retention period. I understand that, too. However, this applies only to the data obtained by that research assignment-oriented interception. Because for data collected in other ways, a retention period of one year applies. With a retention period of three years, effective, and with an acceptable residual risk, the performance of the legal tasks of our services can be ensured. Characteristic of the work of our services is that it is often unclear for a long time what precise meaning data actually have: the so-called "unknown threat." The attacks in Paris and Brussels have once again confirmed and proved this. Take Bataclan. It became clear that ISIS had been sending bombers to Europe for years. Immediately after the attacks, European intelligence and security services re-examined data collected in previous years in search of links between the attackers and still unknown third parties. Those data were in fact meaningless until then, but they were given a different meaning in the light of the attacks and of what became known about them. So we could look back, but we could also look forward. Just because these data were still there, we were able to discover and prevent new ones. That doesn't mean you can always stop all of a sudden with this, but it does mean you're expanding your look. So that "unknown threat" matters. The retention period refers to dates that have already been subject to reduction. That's what my colleague Plasterk just said. So it's not like you're saving everything you've got. The capacity is inadequate for that. So there is filtering, in a negative sense and in a positive sense. I think that might reassure Mr Köhler a little bit. I can see him walking to the interrupting microphone right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u94	No, that doesn't reassure me at all. In the answers given by the ministers to the written questions from the Chamber, I read that these bulk data are initially provided with only so-called 'negative filtering'. So the things that really don't help you, like Netflix's videos that people watched, they get kicked out. Whether that's always wise, I don't know. Maybe you should just figure out who looks at Homeland too often to track down jihadists. But that's already getting thrown out. During these three years, however, we may work on this positive filtering process, on further research into really relevant data. So only that negative filtering took place. Subsequently, these bulk data, which have not been further evaluated, have been among the services for three years. That is what the Minister is defending, among other things, with the argument: yes, in another case it may be useful that we have so much bulk data at our disposal. Yes, of course, under that argument you can collect an endless amount of data and keep them forever, because it may always be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u95	What is your question, Mr Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u96	This interruption was more of an intervention. The minister said she hoped we'd be reassured by this. I explain to her why I am not at all reassured by her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u97	I'm still going into what our neighbouring countries are doing. Perhaps I can reassure Mr Köhler a little more. I do not think it is necessary to explain why a three-year retention period is crucial in the case of military operations. Military deployment requires prior information and building an information position abroad is a long-term process. You don't just do that. Historical data are indispensable in order to gain insight into security situations, rulers, inter-relationships and geographical conditions. More generally, I have just given the example of Bataclan, but also with regard to military operations, and I would say that historical data are essential in order to establish retrospective links and to gain new knowledge, but also in order to be able to identify better data in the present and in the future. That is the general line that is important here. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union asked about the retention periods of the neighbouring countries. I understand her confusion, because I thought: what exactly is her question? But I also realize that Annex 5 of the explanatory memorandum does not make it sufficiently clear that this is a schematic overview of the research mission-oriented data collected. In fact, you can see that we have good deadlines compared to other countries. There are sometimes no deadlines at all. France has longer deadlines. I first noted that a number of Members referred to the UK, but it should be clear that in the United Kingdom a bill is being prepared which does not include retention periods for bulk interceptions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In other words, in many countries data are kept for as long as one considers it necessary and proportionate. We have set a limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u98	Thanks to the Minister for the clarification that the schedule is about research-oriented data. But Article 48 (6), which is the subject of this report, allows not only the retention of data for three years, but, at the request of the Head of Service, three years again and again. I can't wait to see how the Minister weighs it. This is also what the Council of State has said: this is how you could keep it for eternity. That's a little silly, but that's not gonna happen. That's what I'm missing in this review. Here the three years, the standard, are mentioned, but the exception that you can keep longer, as stated in paragraph 6, is missing. I'm also curious how that relates to overseas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u99	Renewal is never an automatism. Each application for renewal shall be subject to a review of the necessity and proportionality. If I am correct, it is a period of up to six months when we are talking about the extension. Unless, of course, I'm gonna have to make a big mistake right now. I'm gonna take a look at my colleague. No, it's in six months. Again, it's definitely not automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u100	Then perhaps that's something the Minister can take to the second term. The second last sentence of paragraph 6 makes it very clear that each one can be extended for a maximum of three years. Then I can ask my other question right away. The Minister said that a negative or positive filtering is always applied, I'm sorry, I'm not sharp anymore, but this is precisely about the encrypted data, which hasn't been decrypted by the services yet. So it's even more bulky. If I understand correctly, but I'd like to hear if it's different, the services also don't have quite what we're saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u101	You are right: these are two separate retention periods, given the type of investigation. On the encrypted data I will return in second term. Mr Van Kappen said: I like it all and I like it when it comes to the evaluation carried out in accordance with the Record motion, with the CTIVD which has a role in this, but are we just going to see whether the proposed retention period is not exceeded and whether the commitment is as focused as possible, or can we also argue the other way round? The answer to that is: yes, of course. The CTIVD is of course about its own research, but as in response to Mr Recourt, we can also ask the CTIVD to take into account Mr Van Kappen's request. Then it goes both ways: are the retention periods long enough or does it require adjustments? Ms Bikker asked about the case law of the ECHR. There are no statements on concrete retention periods. According to the ECHR, it is important that effective and adequate safeguards are always provided and adequately monitored. In the opinion of the Cabinet, the Court will not be surprised if the established system complies with the ECHR. In addition, Mr Lintmeijer spoke about the EU data retention directive. I am well aware of this directive, which has come about with a great deal of hassle and bombaby, but I fear that there will be some confusion here. In view of Article 4 (2) of the Treaty, the EU Court of Justice has no power to comment on the powers of the intelligence and security services as laid down in the Wiv 2002 and in the new law. In other words, this ruling has no direct meaning for the retention periods laid down in the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u102	I understand that it's a bit of an apple comparison with pears, but it's still about a fruit bowl, and that helps. It is a bit in the absence of any other case law that we have also looked at this statement. In that you see the struggle that continues to this day, also in the Council. It is then a question of what reasonable deadlines are if you keep bulk data. In any case, we are talking, filtered or unfiltered, about bulk data, where you can see the Court's struggle over what is worthy of targeted or unfocused protection when it comes to the privacy of the individual. In this sense, this debate has not yet been resolved at European level. That was one of the reasons why we asked whether the Minister had now been given a closer look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u103	That responsibility lies with the Minister of Security and Justice and really sees something different than what we are talking about. I understand the question in itself, because data is stored there for a longer period of time. But that is mainly related to the detection, which is something other than mapping known and unprecedented threats. Mr De Graaf of D66 asked another question about the possibility of differentiation. When it comes to retention periods, such as destruction within one and a half years or two years, first of all, what I have just said is that it is not an end in itself to keep and extend everything you bring in, so we do not even have the capacity to do so because you will also review it in the interim, especially when that extension is on the table. In fact, there is already differentiation, if you're talking about the research assignment-oriented interception. I have just tried to make it clear that the services need sufficiently long deadlines to be able to assess data on relevance to their investigations. Reduction is done fairly quickly, in a negative but also in a positive sense. Using a shorter time limit set in advance would mean that we could destroy data whose relevance to the investigation of services still needs to be assessed. I have just indicated that we are having an evaluation carried out by the CTIVD. I'll take this with me. I would also very much like to say to Mr De Graaf that if it appears that such an evaluation, whether it is about the functioning of the TIB or dealing with retention periods and whether it is too long or too short, will, of course, require an amendment to the law, a cabinet will not hesitate to do so. Why would you ignore the results of an evaluation? This law has come about with the utmost care. Many people have been consulted and the countries around us have been carefully looked at. We have made this weighting and we have accepted a certain residual risk by setting limits to the retention periods. Give it a chance, evaluate and let a next cabinet propose a repair law if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u104	This was my first question in response to the Minister's commitment. It would be nice if the Minister would remain in this place in the future, so that she could keep her promise. But apart from that, what I do not understand in the Minister's entire reasoning, which I can follow in itself, is the relevance of the three-year period. I hear the minister say it's a bit of a random term. We'd like a lot of information, especially when it comes to military operations. We need to be able to look back and forward. In that case it could also apply for five or ten years, because you never know what kind of relevant information you can get out of it. In the case of information to be decrypted, encrypted information, the Minister may use a three-year period after the three-year retention period and decryption, which is a total of six years. In other words, where does the Minister come up with the three-year deadline? Why couldn't it be two or four years? Or, as I suggested, one and a half or two years and where, if it is to be longer, there must be a specific consent with a specific criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u105	I understand very well what Mr De Graaf is saying, but I wish it were as simple as a mathematical exercise. It's not that. You must weigh what is happening around you on the basis of experience gained and you must come to a certain limit because we attach importance to it. That is why we have chosen to do so. Other countries do not have a deadline, including Germany, while that country, with its history, is very careful about storing data, for example. We have deliberately chosen to do so. We also accepted a certain residual risk. It is absolutely true that in the end you can destroy something that you later think: I wish I had it. But then you can go on forever. We have clearly chosen this limit in view of the way in which we have set up our democratic legal order. We are prepared to look again at whether this will be enough to meet both Mr De Graaf's critical remarks and Mr Van Kappen's critical remarks, who said: I think you might even need a little more time when it comes to the dates we have. That's actually what I'm saying. I understand very well what Mr De Graaf is saying, but we have carefully made this weighting, on the basis of experience and after looking around, and then we have come to this conclusion. We know that we accept a certain residual risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u106	I thank the Minister for the answer. I can also follow that, but my question remains: why three years? Why isn't it four or two years? Why has the weighting gone down to three years, especially since the Minister cites examples from abroad that do not include a time limit at all? What is the reason, the core, why the minister says: not one, two, four or five years, but three years? If that choice has been arbitrary, then I'm at peace with it, too, but I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u107	It's just like I just sketched it. Based on the experience of the services we have gained in the past, we have now estimated that three years is enough to look back and use the historical data to look ahead. In response to the additional question.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I was right, but I just wanted to make sure. For this purpose, the three-year period shall apply. Finally, Mr Van Kappen asked two questions of a different order, namely the operations of the DCC, the Defence Cyber Command. He was right to say that this is not part of the Wiv's operation. That's right. But he said more, and in essence I agree with Mr Van Kappen. The synergy between STIVD and Defense Cyber Command in the field of intelligence and offensive cyber can be strengthened. We have also mentioned this before, for example in the Defence Cyber Strategy, namely that the DCC cooperates as much as possible in the development of offensive cyber capabilities and uses knowledge at the STUDY. The placement of DCC staff with STUDY, of course within the legal frameworks that apply to it, is already the case, and is also widely discussed. Once again, all this must fit within the legal framework. It is important to stress that if the DCC's human capacity is indeed active, or is seconded to the STIB, this cannot simply mean that it can be deployed under the flag of the Wiv offensive cyber means. The offensive use of cyber resources..... that is really a different character than what the STUDY does.. is actually only possible within the mandate of the military operation. Then the normal parliamentary procedure, the infamous Article 100 procedure, is also applicable and humanitarian war law applies. Just as I explained in the debates on the fight against ISIS, for example, why we can't simply bomb an oil plant, we can't do everything when we use cyber capacity. Mr Van Kappen asked a question about the problem of double hats in police investigation services. He referred to the KMar and the I.D. Tax Administration. The officials of the KMar and the Tax Administration do not exercise, under Article 13 of the bill, powers to detect criminal offences in their activities for the services. Moreover, pursuant to Article 22, the draft law requires that the processing of data by these officials in this case remains strictly separate from the processing of data for other purposes. The activities they are required to carry out under the Wiv are therefore clearly distinct from their regular tasks. The tasks carried out by the KMar in the context of the Wiv are also carried out by another unit, the so-called Special Service. This means that at the KMar there is no mixing of tasks and therefore no double-hat problem. That is also the case with the Tax Administration, because there is a separate unit that has no investigative powers. I hope that Mr Van Kappen will have responded sufficiently. That brings me to the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u108	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the ministers for their comprehensive reply. Beware of the speaker who says he will be brief. When I say "the ministers," I mean the Minister of the Interior in particular. Let me come back to the position of the CDA group. In the first term, I indicated that our group already felt that in the legislative proposal the ministers, the government, had found a reasonable balance between those diverse interests of privacy and security, between the importance of protecting citizens in their privacy on the one hand and the importance of protecting citizens in their security on the other. They have also managed to strike a reasonable balance between the additional powers that our highly professional security services have and the associated comprehensive supervision of their actions. Many of our initial concerns have already been removed during the written procedure. That is what I said in the first term. So there was still the issue of ministerial responsibility. The answer given by the Minister of the Interior tonight on this point may not have been entirely convincing, but the commitment to discuss it again in two years' time following the evaluation is sufficient for my group at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for their comprehensive answers to our questions at this late hour. I can be brief. I am particularly pleased with the commitment that an evaluation of the TIB will take place in two years' time. I am also very pleased that it has been added that we are working on the support of the TIB. I am particularly pleased with that because this was the real sanding point in our group. I would like to come back very briefly to the retention period. Here's what I said. It's always hard. The three-year deadline is undoubtedly a compromise that has been found. It was also well explained by the Secretary of Defense. I don't care if you can extend indefinitely. I am referring to the fact that there are certain operations carried out by the intelligence services which are structurally extending over a longer period than three years. I am thinking of research into underground terrorist networks and dormant cells and military operations, as the Minister of Defence has rightly pointed out. They are almost all longer than three years, especially if you observe the preparation time. I am concerned about those specific cases. The Minister of Defence has promised that, in line with the Recourt motion, it will be checked whether it works in those cases or whether we should make a separate exception for those specific cases. I think this can be done, because, as Mrs Bikker rightly pointed out, there is an article that you can extend. Perhaps a possibility could be found in these specific cases to extend to a longer period than three years. Of course, this can only be done after the Minister and the TIB have given their consent. I still need to make one comment. A great deal has been said about the violation of citizens' privacy. I understand that too, because the balance between state security on the one hand and the protection of privacy on the other is also difficult. I do need to point out that our services also protect our privacy. We as citizens are also the subject of many operations by foreign services, which violate our privacy. Our intelligence services are not only busy looking at our private data occasionally in certain cases, if it is really necessary, but they are also trying to protect us from violations of our privacy by services from other countries that are not so good with us, or by criminal organisations or non-state actors. It is also important that we realise that. The intelligence services also protect our privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u111	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior for his clear and careful answers to our questions. We welcome the two commitments he has made in response to our questions. First of all, I would like to mention the commitment that the TIB 3 fte will be added to the substantive support. I am not sure whether the Minister himself used the word "fe" or the word "persons," but I think I can interpret that as 3 fte" in addition to 2 fte secretarial or similar. facility support. In practice, after the TIB has actually started to function, my group considers it understandable and even desirable to keep its finger on the pulse to see whether the scope of the support is adequate. Secondly, the Minister has made an important commitment to us in the context of the proposed Article 39 on the safeguards for access to third-party databases, such as the one I mentioned in my interruption. I would also like to mention the Minister's commitment to the VVD Group to carry out a thorough evaluation of the TIB after two years, because we attach great importance to this. I conclude by saying that, in view of all the above, I expect to be able to advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal. Of course, the reservation is that I still have an adequate answer from the Minister on the issue of the problems the CTIVD has or may have had with the lack of a substantive assessment of actual relevance in research assignment-oriented interception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations began his brief introduction with the example of the lonely wolf driving into his truck on something that is very difficult to stop. I'm a little afraid that's exactly the kind of attack that this law isn't going to prevent either. We fear that this law, too, will not bring that self-employed terrorist, which is almost impossible to understand, closer to. We have had long debates on the proposal before us, also in writing. The point remains that my group would have liked to make a number of other choices in this legislation. This concerns the way in which supervision is organised and the way in which privacy is or is not guaranteed. We could still live with a number of principles, but as far as our group is concerned, it is particularly true that where it gets exciting when it comes to: when are we going to act, when is proportional no longer proportional and when is it? The criteria in this legislation remain extremely misty. That remains a bit shady: where do we come from? We would prefer legislation which at least defines a number of criteria more clearly. In that sense, however special it may sound, I was actually happy with Mr Van Kappen's comment on whether or not to extend those three years. In any case, that was an attempt to link very specific targeted criteria on the basis of which you can say with each other what you agree or disagree with. As far as we are concerned, there is too much to do with the concrete designation of these criteria, so that we also have tools to assess whether this legislation is doing what it should do and whether the balance between privacy and security is optimal. We have also talked extensively about the European tests on privacy. My example of the European Charter was essentially intended to indicate that these tests are rather difficult and lead to discussion. I am well aware that the Secretary of Defense said that this is not one-on-one translatable from the search for security, but at the same time this is an illustration of the way in which we are struggling with this issue of security and privacy in these matters. My group would have liked it better if we could have explored the criteria more closely in the debate on this issue, both in written preparation and here, but also in the legislation itself. This remains a piece of legislation that we are extremely critical of for my group, but we will finally get the answer in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u113	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking both ministers for their detailed reply. It has provided a little more clarity, but that does not mean that it has responded to my initial critical remarks in such a way that I am no longer critical. We have first emphasised that we understand and legitimise the need for the renewal of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. It is also necessary. But our thesis is that robust powers, for which there is reason, must be accompanied by robust criteria, robust safeguards and a robust monitoring system. I am afraid I have to say that the ministers have not been able to respond to the points I made in the first period of time as vulnerabilities in such a way that our concerns have been removed. This applies to the criteria for the research mission-oriented interception of internet cables. In popular terms, this is also called the "dragnet." The large-scale and systematic collection, processing, analysis and possibly transmission of data to foreign countries is simply not specific enough. It is a pity that ministers are not able to specify that just a little more within the law. The Secretary of Defense has discussed in detail the retention periods. I understand that. I also understand that people in the services say that three years are still short. You can never rule out risks: the more you save, the more you can search. But I take the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State extremely seriously. The Advisory Section really comes to the conclusion that this is not sustainable on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It would have been very nice if we could have made a better agreement on this, for example a shorter period with the possibility of extension with a specific tool criterion. Then I come to the review by the TIB in relation to the CTIVD. As far as I am concerned, the debate has made one thing very clear, namely that the task and competence of the CTIVD is not limited by the existence of the TIB. Comments in the written documents, namely that the CTIVD is in principle bound by the legality judgment of the TIB, cannot be made on the basis of the law. Nor can it be said that the CTIVD could not have its own legality judgment. Of course there will have to be a good division of roles, but one does not exclude the other. The Minister used the expression of the butcher who approves his own meat. You might think that if the CTIVD ex ante also took the legality test, but you can say the same about the fact that the CTIVD does not just exercise supervision in this bill, but is also going to exercise a binding right of complaint. What kind of image will that give to the citizens? That will be exactly what the Minister fears, namely the butcher who approves his own meat. Thank you for explaining the cooperation with the foreign services. It's become a little clearer for me. However, I believe that the two-year transitional period is simply a very long one. I would have preferred this to be reduced by at least a year. I come to the conclusion that it is a pity that my group, which considers it necessary to modernise the Intelligence and Security Services Act, cannot agree to this proposal. It is also a pity that the government in the Lower House has not sought a broader basis for a law that should really be able to count on broad support in society and in the two Chambers of the States-General. Unfortunately, as far as I am concerned, the Wiv is just not good enough, not specific enough and unfortunately not conclusive enough in terms of supervision. So we come to the conclusion that we will have to vote against this law, unless there is a miracle in the second term, in the response of the two ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u114	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for their proper response. This law began with the Dessens Committee. The Christian Union Group is convinced that the important element of technology independence is good. At the same time, I have stressed that the principle of legality is unabated and that this is not a blank cheque for all kinds of techniques that could suddenly happen. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to pay explicit attention in the evaluation to the possibility of a new technical interpretation of competences, which is closer to citizens or otherwise explores the borders. I would also like to thank him for explicitly naming that when physical integrity is violated, it is "no go' and that this will always be discussed first in Parliament, through the appropriate channels, as we used to call it. Then there's the surveillance system. My group continues to find the state-law position of the TIB complicated, particularly with regard to ministerial responsibility. However, the Minister has made a number of commitments that I have noted. The first concerns the two-year accelerated evaluation, including components to address the considerations of proportionality and subsidiarity. These are not the legal components or the legality test, which the TIB sees in particular, but also the political, international considerations and how they are worked out as a whole, because that is a matter of concern to my group. I welcome the Minister's commitment to evaluate this. The Minister also undertook to strive for legal unit and to report in case of problems, if necessary confidentially. Later, he withdrew that commitment a little while replying to a question from Mr Lintmeijer. He said then that he had said that the TIB is being evaluated and that he hadn't filled it out. The scare struck me, as one understands. I hope that the Minister can confirm once again that what he first promised to the Christian Union Group is indeed so. The Minister also promised an extension of the formation, making the office of the TIB more similar to that of the CTIVD, in terms of knowledge and know-how. I appreciate that. All in all, it remains a complex matter of state law, but I can see that the Minister is doing his best to meet as much effort as possible, within the limits that exist in this Chamber. I have also expressed my concerns about the retention periods for data obtained by research assignment-oriented interception, and I thank the ministers for clarifying, in particular, the retention period abroad. It also shows that with the retention periods of three years, the Netherlands does not make a crazy move. In the explanatory memorandum you can see that all retention periods are up to two years, in which has been dug back in history. For this very reason, I asked a question about Article 48 (6), which deals with the encrypted data that can be kept for three years. If you spell that article, you can see that each time the head of the department can be asked to hold it again for at least three years. Which makes me say, that's an open door to eternity. You could say: decrypt not too fast, because then you can keep it nice and long, if you would reason very suspiciously. I'm not saying the services would, but it's in the law right now. I would like to hear a somewhat more normative statement from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u115	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u116	Yeah, I'm sorry, but I've got 37 seconds and two leaves left, so that's almost gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u117	I think you've already gotten over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u118	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I have a little left, but I will go very quickly. With regard to the Ombudsman and the CTIVD, we continue to worry, because the citizen does not see the Chinese wall. The Minister has made a commitment on this subject, for which I thank him. I started my first contribution with the extensive and persistent digital espionage attacks that the Netherlands has to endure, including the Dutch government. This bill gives the services more opportunities to arm our country against it. My group feels it is a heavy responsibility to tighten up these possibilities, but at the same time we have our hesitations. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments, but I would like to await the second-term answer on the retention periods before being able to make a final assessment. With this mandate, I will return to my group and apologise for my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u119	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their first reply. We still have a few points on feasibility. In the first period, I stated that the measures proposed are effective and therefore proportionate only if the competent authorities in the implementation act adequately on the basis of the information collected. In addition to making effective use of this information, the services and the competent authorities must also have sufficient capacity. Minister Plasterk said earlier that if the services lack resources, they can report this to the cabinet and then work on it. The question is to what extent this also applies in implementation with other relevant bodies than the AIVD and the STUDY, such as the LIRC, the National International Legal Aid Centre. This indicated today in a letter of fire that, among other things, it is no longer able to handle the work due to terrorism and needs more capacity. This is also important for the information position of the security services, as the LIRC processes the messages from Europol and Interpol and checks those that are being alerted in the world. 5,800 people haven't been checked yet. One of these persons was Ibrahim El Bakraoui, who was reported by Turkey last year, who could travel to Amsterdam undisturbed and then blow himself up at Zaventem airport on 22 March 2016. So once again, how can this law be implemented with more adequate information, including from other bodies? Is sufficient capacity available within the government? Finally, I have another question. In the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands 45, to which I referred earlier, the following can be read: "In addition to public social media platforms, Dutch jihadists are also active in closed collusive groups where the tone is louder. Applications that are difficult or difficult to interpret are used." Can the Minister indicate whether the present legislative proposal in principle provides enough legal framework to allow such interception? Is this possible, for example, via the bulk interception system? Our PVV Group is in favour of this bill. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u121	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Ministers for the answers, but certainly not for the content of the answers. I would like to come back to a few points, first of all on the towing network and the collection of bulk data, with all the dangers it poses to privacy. In their reply, the ministers did not pay much attention to this. I would also like to return to the retention of those data, even if they have not been evaluated, for a maximum period of three years. The ministers did agree to that. The Minister of Defence says that the European Court of Human Rights has not ruled on the time limit. She's right about that. The European Court of Justice has not made an exact ruling on a maximum period, but has made many qualitative judgments on the retention periods. On this basis, the Advisory Section of the Council of State comes to the following conclusion. It considers it unlikely that the European Court of Human Rights under Article 8 ECHR will consider a three-year period for the retention of unexplored bulk data acceptable. That's her conclusion. In fact, in the arguments put forward by the ministers, I have not heard at all why, on the basis of case law, they think that a different conclusion can be justified. The only argument I have heard from the Minister of Defence is that it may be useful and has proved useful in practice elsewhere if you have so much bulk data on hand, because you never know if that can be useful. Yes, on this point, the Council's opinion on the case law states that such a retention period cannot be based solely on the criterion "possibly useful." So on that point, too, I am not at all convinced of the arguments of the ministers. Then I come to the TIB's review options. I insist they're inadequate. I'm not alone in that criticism. The TIB must then assess the necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality of those contract-oriented research proposals, but it can only do so on the basis of the application in which the services then argue that it is necessary, subsidiary and proportionate for them. She should not go to the department to test and examine whether she is. So she almost has no choice but to say yes. The national interest is at stake. It meets the three criteria according to the argument submitted by it. What else could she say yes to? That is not only my conclusion, but also the Opinion section of the Council of State states that: under these circumstances, the TIB can almost only say yes. In addition, the scope of the research assignment is also not included in the law at all. There are no criteria and there will be no criteria on the scope of the so-called contract-oriented investigations. So that also makes it almost impossible for the TIB to say: no, this goes too far, this is no longer proportional, don't do this. As far as I am concerned, other questions have also been answered in an unsatisfactory way. This concerns, for example, the two-year period during which information and bulk data are exchanged with foreign services, without weighing notes. This also applies, in particular, to the answers given by the Minister of the Interior to my questions on the legal protection of representatives of the people. If, for example, the Russian Government decided that its secret services would have to spy on the elected representatives of the people on behalf of that government, everyone would be ashamed of it. In the Netherlands, fortunately, we have not only the government that decides on such controversial measures, but also a judicial intervention that is, in some cases, mandatory. Why should this espionage exclude judicial intervention? Does the Minister really not see that it is extremely unwise for any minister or government to be able to decide on which representatives of the people will be subject to espionage? I don't understand. I have the impression that the Minister of the Interior really does not understand how serious it is what he is proposing here. I would like to confirm the only point on which I have received some clarification from the Minister. This is about real-time access in databases of, for example, hospitals or other informants. Do I understand correctly that if the services request real-time access to such databases, then there is the acting as an agent, so that this can only happen with a burden, or do they only act as an informant, so that it can happen without that burden? I would be extremely sorry to hear the second. On that first point, I was the only one to have a satisfactory answer. However, my conclusion is that the ministers do not reconsider the criticised points at all, and that is why the SP Group will vote against this law in bulk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank both ministers for their reply. If the intelligence services have listened to this debate, and there is every reason to accept it, they may be satisfied. Although there have been countless citizens who have called on the Members of this House not to agree to this bill and have raised some of their objections in the various contributions, it seems that if we take up the dragnet of this debate, a majority in this House will be inclined to approve this bill. My group deeply regrets this, because many groups have raised critical questions about the breach of privacy caused by the towing network method and the effectiveness of the review framework. What has not become clear, especially for data collection and retention periods, is exactly what are the clear criteria for assessing what is now relevant and what is not. My group still lacks tightening up on this important point. In this context, I would like to join the PvdA Group's question on the letter from the CTIVD of 22 March 2017: are the CTIVD's objections still valid? The Minister has already said that he will come back to that, but I am really looking forward to it, because in my opinion, this is not properly regulated in the legislative proposal, judging by relevance. Other colleagues have also raised many concerns about the effectiveness of the review framework. All things considered, I think I have tried to gauge the fact that the vain hope is that the bill will be rejected. My group would like to do that, but we see people's representatives in this House tend to support this dangerous bill. We very much regret that. Protecting freedom by restricting and affecting civil liberties can never be the way to a more freer society. Listening to the citizens: never before did politics give such a wrong explanation of social wishes as if this bill were to be adopted. If this bill is adopted, it will only increase the gap between eavesdropping and eavesdropping and make the feeling of insecurity more intense. My group cannot therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u123	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I look at the ministers to see if they have the opportunity to respond directly. That's the case. I call the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. Given the late hour, I'd like to try to keep it short. I was still due a reply to Mrs Beuving's question, which raised the question of whether the president of the CTIVD felt that the further reply provided clarity on the point she was addressing. I've checked that out. That was at a briefing in the Lower House on May 31, 2017. It is true, therefore, that in the March letter there was still an objection to clarity, but after the reply had been received, this was the message from the president of the CTIVD. I very much appreciate the fact that a number of groups are considering supporting the proposal, including the Christian Union Group. The commitment to Mrs Bikker stands. She asked for it just to be sure, but it stands; that goes without saying. So I await the final balance, including the Christian Union. We did our best tonight to convince groups. In part, there have also been points raised for which the new law is not an amendment to the existing law. This applies, for example, to taping a councilman. If it is necessary for national security, if it cannot be resolved in any other way and if it is proportionate, someone who is a city council member or otherwise politically active can also be tapped. However, that is also the case in the current system. The new law adds that this will be reviewed again for proportionality, not only by the Minister but also by the TIB. This is clearly better invested in the new law. Finally, there is Mr Van Hattem's question about a commitment on capacity. I can only do it as far as my portfolio responsibility is concerned. For the rest, I have to refer, for example, to Mr van V and Mr J. We can't find another solution for that right now. He asked about intercepting, he asked if the new law offers opportunities for interception of potentially encrypted data that could not be traced in any other way. I'm not sure. This is, of course, about extending the powers of the service to collect data. That does not mean that every technical bump can always be taken. But the possibilities are being extended in each of them to perhaps find out by another way. Thanks, by the way, for the promised support. I believe that I have answered all the remaining questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I have noted two questions to my address. First of all, that is Mr Van Kappen's point about the forthcoming evaluation and the retention period. His point is perfectly clear to me and will therefore be taken up in accordance with it. I have to say it's true. That is not a coincidence because we have the same political background. Our intelligence services also represent the protection of the privacy of everyone here in the Netherlands. Let us not forget that. It is sometimes easy to say, but let us not forget that, because we do not have access to the cable, this does not mean that other actors cannot be on the same cable. Then I have a response to Mrs Bikker on the encrypted data. The bill prescribes a maximum of three years. If that data is encrypted, it doesn't do you much good, because then you can't do anything with it. You don't know what's inside. Then you could possibly extend that for another period. You only do that if there is some relevance to it. Once they've been decrypted, the three-year deadline will apply. And then they'll be destroyed. It is possible that a military mission lasts longer than three years, which is true almost for every mission, and that, because you have a suspicion that there is relevance in those encrypted data, you do not yet open it to investigate its relevance at a later date in order to keep an eye on future threats but also to establish links with past data. In any case, I would like to emphasise here, as in the first period, more generally, that if decrypted data can be stored for up to three years, that does not mean that we are going to keep them for up to three years. It's never a free pass to always use that maximum time limit. We shouldn't want that at all. Those services do not want that either, because they want to free up capacity for other things and other priorities. The starting point of this law is that data will be examined as soon as possible for their relevance. That's not exactly a non-binding exercise. We have set limits and limits there, because you may want to look at that relevance at a later stage. Again, it is important here that the starting point as we define it in the law, really is that there is a s.a.m. must be acted on. I think I've answered all the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-8.u126	Thank you. I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill in a moment. Before voting, you will receive a list of votes in a moment. I shall therefore suspend the sitting for a few minutes. I hope it's been watched in five minutes. As soon as we get the voting list, I'll call for the follow-up to the sitting.
