ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the Year Note 2017. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the Navy Note. This is the state budget's progress report for 2017. The purpose of the autumn note is to determine whether the implementation of the national budget for the current year is on track. Let me begin by saying a few words about the budgetary picture and the surplus. Many speakers have already referred to it. The figures we see so far for 2017 look absolutely good. The budgetary surplus in 2017 is estimated at 0.4% of GDP, and this is the next year that we will perhaps conclude with a plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus-a-plus. Government debt is expected to reach 57.3%. The Netherlands is therefore one of the four countries with both a budget surplus and a debt below the 60% European standard. That combination is a very good one. We would wish them more European countries. Mr Van Dijck is not here, but I have an immediate answer to one of his questions. He pointed out that although the economy is doing well, purchasing power is lagging behind. That is a dilemma that many of us see. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Nijboer have also asked for this in the Financial Reviews. A few comments on that. The CPB also reported the median purchasing power in the December estimate and then you see that purchasing power is expected to improve by 0.6% in 2018. This has not changed either as a result of the latest estimate. There is therefore no reason to make a new extended purchasing power estimate. The cabinet has also indicated that this increase in purchasing power may depend not only on government policy, but also on rising wages. That, I believe, is the point we exchanged last time. I would like to stress once again, and I think we all agree on this, that employers and employees are primarily about wage formation. But the Prime Minister has said it before, and I have said it before, both here and in the First Chamber: it is our perception that that space is clearly there. We call on the social partners to sit down with each other to reach good new agreements. Mr Van Dijck's next question concerns GDP and public debt growth and how it can be explained. It is good to say that GDP growth of 150 billion between 2017 and 2021 is due to economic growth and partly inflation. Public debt is expected to decline by around 10 billion to slightly above 400 billion in that period, falling as a percentre to well below 60%, around 47%. I believe that the 118 billion repayments mentioned by Mr Van Dijck are repayments of public debt. Maybe those are the numbers the discussion was about. Then I have the question about... I wanted to say that I answered the question about wage developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr Van Dijck has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Sorry I was a little late. In reply to question 12, in response to our questions on the Autumn note, it says that the repayment of public debt amounts to 118 billion. Eventually, the government debt only goes down by 10 billion. How can you explain that? In this cabinet period, 118 billion is repaid. The government debt isn't getting any further because of a deficit or something. How then is it that, in the end, the public debt goes from EUR 420 billion to EUR 410 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u5	Maybe it's okay to repeat it. GDP is growing by 150 billion. I can also add the exact numbers: in 2017 the estimate is 733 and in 2021 we are expected to reach 872. This is due to economic growth and inflation. During this period, public debt, or the EMU balance, fell by about 10 billion to just over 400 billion. I think that is the number Mr Van Dijck recognizes. It is still important to say that, for this fall in debt, we expect that there will be continuous surpluses in the budget. The percentage of GDP is falling from around 60% of GDP this year to around 47% in 2021. I'm not sure where the confusion came from. I think that the 118 billion referred to by Mr Van Dijck is perhaps the repayment of the sovereign debt itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's right. That's the repayment of the government debt itself. At the start of this cabinet period, the government debt is 420 billion. Next, 118 billion will be repaid, but you're looking at a state debt of 410 billion. In other words, how can you repay 118 billion to something, while the resultant of that repayment is 10 billion? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u7	Because every year you also have to pay off part of the current government debt. I'm going to take another look at that calculation, because I'm not sure if we're talking past each other or if the calculation is wrong. I suspect the first. Otherwise, let me refer the exact calculation to Mr Van Dijck in the second term. Mr. Chairman. In this block, Mrs Hennis asked about the EMU deficit by level of government. She asked further when we could provide more insight into this. I agree with her and other speakers who have said that a division of the macro-EMU standard by level of administration and the publication of the individual reference value referred to have added value, because both simply give more insight. This is especially true now that we have to know the whole amount after all; it is just important to have that subdivision. We therefore remain committed to making arrangements for the period 2019-2021, including the division by levels of government, in line with the Court of Justice Act, which was adopted a few years ago. That is also part of the inter-administrative programme. I have to say that the inclusion of a subdivision in the EMU Decision 2018 is difficult. This has already been coordinated during the last months of the missionary phase of the previous cabinet. So it may not be as fast as Mrs Hennis would wish, but the movement is exactly the movement she imagines. Mr Snels has asked whether we have sufficient certainty in the light of the flattering economy. Mrs Leijten has asked me how I look at stewardship and Mr Nijboer has, of course, said a number of things about overheating. Let me tell you a few things about this. The first thing that is important and what I think we all distinguish, as I recall from the Financial Reviews, is that we are pursuing a trendary fiscal policy. That gives certain spaces, but also has certain consequences. The cyclical downturns are absorbed in the balance. I'm not gonna tell you anything new. The opposite is also true. We strive for a surplus throughout the cabinet period. Meanwhile, the government debt is falling. I have just exchanged this with Mr Van Dijck. Is that enough? I also remember the discussion I had with the SGP and the Christian Union in the Financial Reviews. Let me put it carefully: we're getting close to 42% in 2007. If you look at the last few decades, that is the best point we have achieved. We all know those states with 3% and 60%, and in an international context I find myself in a very good place. Predicting is always difficult, especially when it comes to the future. So we still have to see that this is going to happen, but if it goes about as we hope it will, I think we are leaving behind a very solid budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u8	We know that the cabinet sails pretty sharply to the wind. The Council of State had already noted this before. But the specific demand was very much focused on the Autumn note, in which we see that there is yet another setback in the budget surplus, despite the very high economic growth of the last year and the high economic growth that we will have in the coming year. That worries me a little when growth is flattened in 2018, 2019 or 2020. Are there enough certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u9	I think this is a very fair question. One of the things we exchanged in the previous debate is that the cabinet is actually trying to do two things. The cabinet is really trying to make a very substantial investment in many areas: education, care, defence. It also seeks to ensure sound public finances. Some spokesmen used the term'sharp to the wind'. I have shared with the Chamber that I understand that and also support it. We want and-and, which I think is a very well-balanced choice, but you don't have a lot of space. I would also like to say that the problem which has just been mentioned is a problem which comes back every year. If you look at the question raised by Members of Parliament, it is interesting that the figures per year differ considerably, both between budgets and year by year. So it's hard to find a pattern in that, except that when I say it very carefully in the Netherlands under-utilization seems to be more the norm than over-utilization. I think that is the good news in the direction of Mr Snels' question. I would have stayed with Mr Nijboer's question on pro-cyclical policy. Of course, I can imagine that question very well. If you look at history, you can see that the Netherlands is heavily involved in international waves with its open economy. In addition, it is very difficult to determine where we are in the economic situation. In my opinion, many, including in politics, were surprised at the previous crisis by how quickly it suddenly went down. Nevertheless, I think that the normal system is the best answer, namely the trendary fiscal policy and ensuring that you stay within the frameworks in both good and bad times, building a buffer in good times. That is what we want to do in the coming period, of course. My second comment is that the Autumn note is not really the time for new policies, however tempting that may be, and not least for myself and for the members of the cabinet. First of all, we have the regular decision-making moments in the spring and, of course, after that, the Millions note. The autumn is therefore not the time to accommodate policy wishes and, in practical terms, the money can in many cases no longer be spent effectively. At the same time, the poor policy character of the Navy note does not mean that the cabinet would not be able or willing to do the things that are really urgent and need immediate resolution. The main examples of this are, I think, emergency and reconstruction aid because of the hurricane on the islands of Saint Martin, Saba and, to a lesser extent, Saint Eustatius. Frankly, that's also the pattern you see when you look back at and reflect on the questions the Chamber has asked. Two years ago, for example, extra money was earmarked for the immigration problem which was acute at the end. Mr. Chairman. The third subject to which I should like to refer briefly is therefore on the Upper Wind Islands. That's where we do a few things. We have previously exchanged with the Chamber that we reserve 550 million for the reconstruction of Saint Martin and 67 million for the reconstruction of Saba and Saint Eustatius. That adds up to 617 million. Then there is also money available for the so-called 'emergency aid'. So it is really about emergency aid, about the acute situation. The funds for this reconstruction have been placed in the supplementary post of the Ministry of Finance, which I say not only to reassure myself, but also to reassure the Chamber, and these funds are only spent if there are effective spending plans. We haven't finished that conversation, if I may put it so carefully. In addition, it is known that Sint-Maarten has accepted the conditions of the Netherlands regarding the Integrity Chamber as a condition for receiving the money. That's not an easy file either. Sint-Maarten has also agreed to border control. My intention is to maintain in full the requirements and conditions for each tranche of money we make available. That is the only way to ensure that the money is spent properly, I think. Mr. Chairman. Finally, at least on this subject. This acute aid is also in the event that St Maarten is facing liquidity problems and, for example, could no longer pay public salaries. For this reason, the second supplementary budget has already transferred 41 million from the supplementary item to the Kingdom's relations budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u10	Before you proceed, Mr Van Dijck has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u11	Yeah, about the Windward Islands. Of course, it is very good that the Netherlands is helping to rebuild, but I wonder why that money is being booked as expenditure, while it is actually a loan. So how did that money get back? I don't see it anywhere. I can only see that it seems as if they are gifts, while the Minister clearly states in the answer: no, it is for 10% gifts and 90% loans. Then how is it returned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u12	In order to avoid a misunderstanding: the 550 million is really reserved for reconstruction. The Netherlands has a clause to that effect, namely that we want to make sure that money is spent wisely. So it's really about a gift. The alternative, which is to repay that amount, would also be quite difficult for those islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u13	Summarizing: the 550 million that goes to the Windward Islands is a gift. So they never have to pay that back. Then my next question is: why is that not from the field of development cooperation? After all, it's a hurricane. Had it been Haiti, it would have come out of the pot of development cooperation. Now it is the Windward Islands and suddenly it comes out of the budget and it is a gift, while development cooperation has an underutilization and money is left over every year. Billions of development aid are stuck there, whereas that money is intended for this kind of problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u14	I understand Mr Van Dijck's question very well. I think we're coming back to the point I've been trying to make. What do you do at the end of the year when there are calamities that cannot be borne by normal budgets? Then you use this moment of the year to reserve that money. This has happened in the case of the migration crisis of two years ago, and that is what is happening now with the money for the Windward Islands. I had already given the answer to Mr Van Dijck's first question: yes, it is a gift, but it is not a gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u15	"It's a gift, but not a gift." Well, if I find a gift under the Christmas tree, I'll consider it a gift. In any case, my question remains: why does it not come from the pot of development cooperation? That's what that pot's for. If it had been another country, it would have come out of that pot. Now it's not coming out of that pot. My question is why this is not simply paid out of the pot of development cooperation? Development cooperation is under-utilized! There's money on the shelf. So why is new money being generated and the EMU balance being hit even more when it could have been removed from development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u16	I am not sure whether this is just a technical discussion or whether it could also be an ideological discussion for Mr Van Dijck. In my view, this is exactly how it should work according to the methodology. That is independent of whether we agree ideologically on where and where money is going. The system is that these kinds of calamities ultimately come from the general funds and that this budget is not called upon to do so. It is also somewhat different, both in principle and in terms of amount, when the Netherlands would spend a much smaller amount on the misery elsewhere, earmarked as development cooperation. About the gift and the gift: I really attach great importance to emphasising, in the direction of the whole Chamber and in particular to Mr Van Dijck, that it is not for nothing that we are making tough demands on the Integrity Chamber and the administration of Saint Martin and that we will continue to make tough demands on the efficient use of the euros that go that way. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the expenditure framework, the under-exhaustment and the in-exhaustment. A number of members of the Chamber have already pointed out that the undermining of the expenditure framework is caused, among other things, by the under-exhaust of more than half a billion people in various budgets. Actually, 513 million. That breakdown can also be seen in the budget. I've already exchanged with Mr Snels that if you look back and you wonder why that's what's happening, that was exactly my question, too. You come to the conclusion that it's actually not unusual. Then you can also see that there are huge differences per year and per budget line. We make the best possible assessment, but if the members of the Chamber were to ask if that system was perfect, the honest answer would of course be no. I think it's just fair to acknowledge that. Under-exhaustment sounds like money remains on the shelf, but that's a little more nuanced. I would like to add that at the same time. Ideally, you could predict it very precisely and you would spend all that money. As Minister of Finance, I would, of course, prefer that colleagues should be left with money instead of spending too much money. We see in the states that the latter situation also occasionally occurs, recently. I think last year and the year before that I am still with the Justice Department. And what else have we added to the methodology? In my view, that is really sensible budgetary policy. We started experimenting with that 1% scheme a few years ago. By the way, it was initially lower. That is precisely what we want to avoid, whatever one of the Members mentioned in the debate: we wanted to avoid that Christmas fever, that December fever or whatever you want to call it. After all, what do you not want? That, at the very last minute, citizens' money is not actually being spent wisely. The 1% is therefore acceptable to the various ministers. In my view, we have exchanged the fact that the annual margin increases the budget for the coming year and that this deadline is also an identical counterpart of the end-of-year margin. Of course, a very good question is: what do you do when there is more multiannual budget than is spent and there is structural underexhaustment? The complex thing is that, on the basis of the Navy's note alone, that is very difficult to say or to see. There may also be a number of incidental factors on the basis of which it is based. At the same time, I realise that many have just asked: could we not ensure more transparency, just to understand the figures and ultimately improve control? I would like to say to Mrs Leijten, Mr Nijboer and a number of others: let's see what we can do to make that even clearer. Let's see if we can show even better how the distribution is around this moment in the year, and then again in spring. I believe that Mrs Leijten's question was also what the money is then spent on. So what I would like to say to the Chamber is that we are trying to make it even clearer, not least for myself, what is happening and what is the decision-making that is attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you for this commitment. Can I ask the Minister a specific question? One of the observations that we made was that we have suffered a significant underdevelopment in the budgetary framework for five years. I therefore ask for an analysis of whether there is any structure in it, or whether it is in fact different occasional windfalls every time, or whether there is a pattern in it. Of course, this includes the question of what this actually does with the nominal premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u18	I do not want to immediately organise the disappointment with Mr Snels, so I would very much like to give him the document on transparency. My first impression, because I also asked that question, is that it is still quite difficult to discover a trendline in healthcare. But let's explore that further. The more fundamental discussion is, of course, about the system, because it is possible that Mr Snels and I may continue to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u19	In my view, it is very good if we get clearer and insightful what is going to be spent from ministries to general funds and whatever happens in the end. That is actually the promise the Minister is making right now. I think that's good. Because about how we spend it further we can be endlessly politically different, but we just need the same information. However, the Court of Auditors has said that too much has actually been estimated in structural terms in recent years. Of course, this has led to too high a premium and too high an own risk, because that is linked to that premium. Doesn't the Minister of Finance also see that it would be fair for us to look at how we are going to give something back to the people who have paid too much premium in, but also too much of their own risk, year after year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u20	I am glad that Mrs Leijten at least reacted enthusiastically to the first part of my reply. This also applies, let us guard against disappointment in the future. I suspect that would really be a bridge too far for the cabinet. I would also like to add one more thing. The information quoted by Mrs Leijten from the Court of Auditors is, of course, entirely correct. I would like to add that, as much as I would like to improve this transparency myself, it is not easy for me, but also for the Chamber. Apparently, it's hard to predict. Apparently, it's hard to see what the position is at what point. One of the things that makes this so complicated is that, of course, much of that information is also collected on a decentralised basis. Take care costs. I also asked when this information is complete. That's two or three years from today. Of course, that seems endlessly long, but that has to do with the fact that there are still endless amounts of bills to be filed at a later date, hospitals to be paid, general practitioners to be paid, etcetera, etcetera. So I think I'm trying to say three things. 1. I would like to pledge to the Chamber that I will ensure more or more transparency. 2. There may be differences on fundamental questions. 3. This transparency is not yet easy, but I am going to do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u21	It's very nice to get a commitment. Of course, you'll say: Hopefully we'll get a lot of benefit from that together. If the Minister immediately gives the profit warning "yes, the rest we will not..." then that is a pity, because perhaps we can convince each other. Especially at the cost of care. Because it takes years for you to have the overall picture, but we say this financial year that there is 2.4 billion left that actually flows into the general budget, you see here the problem of health costs in the national budget. It would be very wise, for example, to create a separate fund, which you can also reserve for future accounts, but of which you can also say: there is so much in it, now the premium can go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u22	The downside is that we have made a different choice. I know the plans of the SP on this point, but of course we have made a different choice when it comes to the system. I should perhaps also like to point out that the choice we have made also means that the Chamber has the maximum opportunity to deal with the decisions on money. I hope I will not disappoint Mrs Leijten with the answer, but I think we agree that transparency is working well. The debate is then in favour of convincing each other how it should be politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u23	I do not need to have a debate with this minister about the healthcare system and bureaucratic market forces, where you pretend there is transparency but you actually don't have it, where you give people the bill, where you leave money but you don't give it back. Let me not have that debate. But it's a problem. However, it is a problem that people are told 'you pay so much to Wlz premium, you pay so much for the Health Insurance Act', whereas in the end, year after year, there is less going to it than is said to be paid. Does the Minister of Finance see a task for him to give more honest information to the citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u24	The suggestion is a bit that the information to the citizens would not be fair. I think we differ on that. Mr. Chairman. I had come to a question from Mr Sneller. It was about the in=terminal. He asked if the space under the overall framework has been used. He referred to Table 2.2.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u25	Before you proceed, Mr Van Dijck has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u26	What also strikes me in relation to Mrs Leijten's question is that in the last four years there has been a billion in surplus each time in the care framework and that this money is being used to close the gap in the state budget. That's a structural pattern. If you budget the year 2.4 billion, in 2014 4 billion and in 2013 1.1 billion too much in the care framework and use it every time to close the gap to the rich budget, then something goes structurally wrong. Then people will also be fooled, because on the basis of that budget the own risk will be determined each time. In other words, structuralally, people pay a far too high risk of their own on the basis of the realization figures around the care framework. How's the minister gonna fix that? How is he going to ensure that more realistic budgeting is made and that citizens pay a more realistic own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u27	There is, I think, an important assumption of whether Mr Van Dijck's comment is the basis. I don't share that assumption. We agree on transparency, but his conclusion is also that it is structural. My observation after studying all these figures is that there are great differences year after year and that there are also differences in a budget when it comes to the question of which number goes up or down. I also think it is too early to say that, for example, there is structural under-utilisation of medicinal products. In my view, we agree that we need to look at whether things are structural and that we need to change the policy accordingly. That could then be done in two directions, but that is a political question. But I am not ready to conclude that this is a structural matter, I say to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u28	I checked the budget. In 2013, it is 1.8 billion. In 2014 it is 2 billion. Last year, in 2016, it was 1.8 billion. This year, it's 2.4 billion. Almost all of this is due to the medicines. That pharmaceutical budget is leading the way in determining its own risk. In other words, all these years people have paid far too high a risk of their own. So they should get that money back. But no, what is this minister doing? He uses that to close the holes in another frame. I call it the state budget. Too much money is spent. We're taking it away from care. That's not right. I ask the Minister whether he wants to look at this structural trend, because it is actually a matter of deceiving citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u29	Again, this is the normal system. I am doing exactly what my predecessor, the predecessor of my predecessor and also the predecessor of my predecessor have done. Where we find each other is that we have to look for what is structural and what then is the policy that you possibly adapt to. I would like to point out, however, that I have also said to Mrs Leijten that this year's assessment is a very preliminary assessment, and I think it is on the basis of 2% of the implementation. That's a real judgment. In addition, we come from a situation with a different economic situation. It might just look different next year. We do share the need to look at what is occasional and what is structural. What is incidental is that the methodology we have in the Netherlands is really a very good one. What is structural is the political question on the table as to what you would like to do with it. I was somewhat confused, because my text constantly talks about the questioner, but then I have to think about whether the author is Mr Snels or Mr Sneler. I'm glad the Secretary of State isn't here in that regard. In any case, the question was about Table 2.2 and what is common to do with the in=terminal. I did not look at Mr Sneller for nothing, because it was partly his question. The set-up shall in principle be completed as soon as possible. This year it was also possible to complete it fully in the context of the Autumn Note. It may also be the case that the Annual Financial Report shows that there are more failures, and in that case they are normally in favour of the EMU balance. I would then like to answer a question from the CDA about the defence budget and the letter. During the General Financial Reviews I received that question from Mr Omtzigt. I believe that at that time I promised him that he would pass on the request to the Minister of Defense and set a deadline for Christmas. I also understand that this letter is not yet available, so let me take on the expensive duty of reappearing to the Secretary of Defense and making it clear. The next question about Defence also came from the CDA, which was about contributing to increasing predictability and the resilience to shocks of that budget. The first part of the answer is this. The Secretary of Defense is currently working on the Defence Note. It is also good to highlight that we allow ourselves in the defence sector and in infrastructure a different methodology than that 1%, precisely because it concerns long-term projects where sometimes things just don't fit within a calendar year. I think that's something we all understand. I think it's just that I'm getting it out of my head for a while. It's just that a big project has been completed in the Defense Department, but the bill still has to be paid. That makes the hole look even bigger. At least I see one of the people, someone who knows much more about Defense than I do, nodding hard. I think the answer is in the right direction. So that has to do with the relatively big hole you see in the DOD. Those who say 'that money must not be lost to the armed forces' can be reassured, because that is not what is happening. I also mentioned the unlimited end-of-year margin in the Defense Department. I would like to say a few things about the social security and employment and national debt chapters, where there is a relatively large under-exhaustment. In the case of SZW, this is mainly caused by the phasing out of lower back payments in the sector plans. In the case of national debt, the execution costs are lower due to the failure of the planned bond auction. That's about relatively little money. The percentage is high, but the net amount is quite small. There was also a question about the Bbz group. One more question was asked as to whether we can provide a workable solution. I have now entered the SZW domain and again with a question from D66 and the CDA. The question was whether I can motivate what happens to the expenditure and whether I want to see it done in any case I have interpreted it as meaning that action is actually being taken before 1 April. Before the end of the first quarter of 2018, we will respond to Mr Omtzigt's motion on debt relief entrepreneurs. Before 1 April, we are going to complete that. I sympathise with the urgency expressed by the Chamber. Let me check with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment myself whether this is substantive and time-consuming in the way we hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u30	In my view, the problem is, among other things, that it concerns different budgets. That is why I think it is a better idea to do it in proportion. That is why I am asking this Minister, who oversees the various budgets, to monitor and ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u31	I am well aware of that. At the same time, I try not to connect both on the plus side and on the minus side to the agreements that may be made in the spring. Let's be clear about that. At the moment, I do not want to anticipate the direction of resolution. However, I repeat here in the Chamber that I see the problem and that I believe that the resumption of dialogue with the SZW Minister is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u32	Part of the solution; I think so, but not the whole solution. Delaying until spring is precisely why we have to keep the people who it is waiting for. I do not think that is the intention, and I therefore ask this Minister to see to it together with the other colleagues. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u33	Let's do it this way. Maybe that should be the wording. I'm gonna start the conversation. I'll come back to the Chamber and see what that conversation got. Whether that is entirely to the satisfaction of the Chamber or whether the moment of funding will end in April, then we are going to see each other. But I think Mr Sneller also understands that I can no longer commit. I would then leave the tight path that I constantly suggest to the other ministers myself. I don't think it's his intention that I do that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question about the SDE scheme, which I believe is Mr Snels's. Actually, his question was, as I understand it, whether that money remains available. The answer is yes. The opposite would be crazy, too. Then I'm back to a completely different point. Mr Nijboer asked about the problem of the determination. He says, at least that's my interpretation, two things. Firstly, he thinks that he would change the balance, let me put it this way. And secondly, he thinks he's being referred too much. At least that's how I interpreted it myself. I would like to solve that second point with him by making it clear how the various groups are getting rid of it. Let me also take into account the figures of the House Union. By the way, I would like to say that these are figures that, according to my observation, are about 2019 and not about 2018. I very much share his view that he, as well as the Chamber as a whole, must of course be well informed about this. The more fundamental point is not simply resolved, because that is simply what the government agreement is very clear about. Until the coalition has different views on this matter, that is really a different view from that of Mr Nijboer, but let me at least take action on that other point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u34	Before you proceed, Mr Nijboer has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u35	The Minister can almost put it "on his Senates": I would put the balance differently. Yeah, we're just against that measure, but that's what he means. I have still not heard any substantive arguments from the cabinet. I asked the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Finance and this Minister earlier, why this is necessary. Why is it necessary to cut down on tenants? I think that's the least you can expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u36	In any case, I have tried to do so in the previous debate that Mr Nijboer and I have had on this. What we, as a cabinet, have tried to do is to ensure that all groups progress, even a little. If you look at the full width, I think we have succeeded more than reasonably. It is also fair to say that Mr Nijboer will also acknowledge that, I think, because it also came along in the debate on the interruption, which also applies to this group, which he is concerned about. There too, you should not look at the possibility of isolation. You need to look at the wider package. If you do, this group will also improve on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u37	When I look at the wider package, I see that people with a house of sale progress on average 1.4% over the next cabinet period, if you take everything, and people with a house of rent 0.8%. So people with a house of sale actually get twice as much ahead of it, the outcome is, like people in a house of rent. Is it really weird that I think that this is unfair and that I don't understand why the government is making a net cut on tenants through the rent allowance? That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u38	It's going to be a bit of a repeat of moves now. It is not the case that the cabinet is cutting back on these groups. This group, too, is improving. Mr Nijboer says: yes, but that should have been more as far as I am concerned. Or perhaps it should have been the other way around as far as Mr Nijboer is concerned. This is, in my view, the total weighing down that the cabinet has made. If you look at the balance, if you look at old and young, city and country, poor and rich, tenant and buyer, I honestly think it's a balanced package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's a bit of a package again. But I still want to be specific. After all, I am standing here with the Minister of Finance. There are two measures to the rent allowance. The can-determination and the end of the rent payment dismantling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u41	But on balance, isn't that just a cut on the rent bonus? That's not a discussion, is it? It's 138 million minus 70 million is 68 million. That's a cut. Then the Minister can't say "we're not cutting back on the tenants"? Isn't that just the way it is on balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yes, but, Mr President, then we have the same discussion that we also have on VAT. If you look at measures in isolation, you will of course see a different picture than when you look at the total package. So I am glad that Mr Nijboer also embraces the phasing-out. In any case, I think we agree on that part of the answer. But I really think it's wise to look at what the different groups are the pluses and the minuses. This applies not only to this area, but also to the overall mix. And how do those pluses and minuses work out? Let me go into this in more detail. What if it was the other way around? Suppose we hadn't done that assessment, but the overall picture would have looked worse in the end. Then I think Mr Nijboer would have had many more reasons to be angry with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u43	Finally, Mr Nijboer responds very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u44	The picture is unfair. Tenants get half of what buyers get. And the VVD, the coalition party, does it themselves. When a measure is taken that affects the buyers, they say there: one-on-one you get it back in your own home. Now I'm adding up the measures for the tenants. The height of the rental fee is the only thing tenants notice directly. It's aimed directly at tenants. That's just being cut back. That is really inexplicable and I do not find the Minister's explanation convincing either. He refers to total packages and he says: well, they're getting better anyway, so let them be happy. Well, they're not happy because the rents are going up. This measure cannot be defended in these times and you should refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u45	I suspect that we cannot find each other on this particular point, but I would still like to maintain that looking at the total is the most sensible thing to do. That is much more sensible than setting out one measure and seeing whether you think it is good or bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u46	Before you go any further, Mr Bruins has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u47	A few minutes ago, the Minister was talking about the in=terminal. He has devoted one sentence to that. Is he going to say more about this or should I ask a further question about it at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'm gonna say more about that. In view of the clock, the question is when exactly that will be, but I'm going to say more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u49	Of course, the debate is getting as flat as a dime if you cannot talk about specific regulations, but you just have to look at 'the overall picture' for a moment. This overall picture has been outlined by all Cabinets. Everyone's purchasing power would improve and yet we read in the Millions Note that since 2001 incomes have not risen because where they rose, the burden also increased directly. There is therefore no income growth for people and they have not been able to spend any more income since 2001. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u50	This also applies to what I gave in response to Mr Van Dijck at the very beginning, who was not in the Chamber at the time. What happened? Public expenditure has certainly grown in recent years and will grow much more significantly under this cabinet. At the same time, we note with each other that we would like to make a catch-up with employees' salaries. We agree on that. In my view, however, that is quite different from what Mrs Leijten is arguing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u51	He has no choice but to acknowledge this, because it's in his millions notebook. At least, it's his predecessor's Millions Note, but he's responsible for that. To refer to the total picture sounds nice but doesn't really say that much. Why did I bring that up? Because I do want to talk about one specific arrangement, namely the discount for the Wajangers. That's a 5% plague discount. They are now getting 75% of the minimum wage, which is going to be 70%. It's about people who don't have a job on their own. That job isn't offered by anyone else. Outside their own fault, they don't have the capacity to work, what you and I can do. What's with the bully discount?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u52	I am going to give up that word and I would like to come back to it in a moment. If I did that now, I'd make it an even bigger mess with the book that's in front of me right now. Mr President, I need to look where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Minister was silent for so long that Mr Van Dijck still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u54	I wasn't supposed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u55	It's a rookie mistake. It's your fault: if you drop long silences, questions will brew up immediately. My question is this. In the Autumn note we see a windfall in the rent allowance of 170 million. 170 million. Couldn't we bet that money on that cut? The same goes for the Wajong: a windfall at the Wajong of 27 million. You can use that money to wipe out all the terrible measures, the cuts and the government's interventions for next year. Is the Minister prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Van Dijck uses the word "kan." I'd like to use the words "maybe." I believe that the methodology we agreed on is that we should look at it in the spring. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to a few things in a moment, but I would also like to say a few words about the revenue side. For a number of reasons, I believe that this subject has the particular interest of the Members of your house. The overall package shows an improvement of the estimate of 0.1 billion. There are, of course, a number of specific issues in this regard. The first is that the Court has already had an exchange of views with the Secretary of State on this subject, which is that the estimate of the gift and inheritance tax has been adjusted downwards by 450 million, and this has been done on the basis of the cash revenue achieved until October. Several groups asked me what I think of the ICT problems and whether that money actually comes in. I think those are very legitimate questions. You will understand that, like the Secretary of State, I am uncomfortablely surprised by that announcement, which fell just before I sent the Navy note to the Chamber. I think it's 24 or 48 hours earlier, but I just want to be clear of the exact moment. But anyway, when I first saw those numbers, I asked what that is and what's going on here. Apart from that, it is important to stress that it is annoying for the next of kin that they later have certainty about the declaration submitted. For this reason, the Secretary of State has already promised that no tax interest will be charged in the event of those attacks. The good news, or at least the news you're hoping for, apart from this little picture, is that that money will come in next year. That's one. Two is that, of course, my question was whether we will have these problems again next year. In any case, this opportunity is extremely small, because the ICT system to which the Secretary of State referred last week is ready. But what we are seeing again is that the problems at the Tax Administration, however hard they are being worked on, are large, complex and persistent. Let's just be honest about that. So there is a delay in payment, but that income will come in. Mr Van Dijck asked whether the cabinet would pay interest on the inheritance, because it would be paid a year later. The answer to that is no. We'll do the first thing I just said, but not the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's the least of it. I mean, it's not the fault of whoever gets an inheritance that he has to wait a year for. At the time when the taxpayer is late in paying, he gets 4% for his choice, which you can also ask how realistic that is at this time, when interest is so low...... but if it is the debt of the Tax Administration that people have to wait too long, they will not get interest. That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u58	It's important to be very precise here. Because I think Mr Van Dijck is running a little short here. Look, if an inheritance is being treated by a notary, it's just possible to divide that inheritance between the heirs for the time being. That's the usual methodology. However, account must be taken of the fact that inheritance tax still has to be paid later. But it's not like the government has that money and has to wait for it. That's really different. There is already the possibility for next of kin to contact the Tax Administration. I do see an opportunity to pay even more attention to this on the website of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u59	So the minister says that notaries will pay out that money. Well, there are a lot of notaries, I think, who just leave that on the third-party account, who get interest on it themselves and just hold it until the Tax Administration gets done with its ICT system. So these people are waiting for their money and they're missing all that interest on that money. Is the Minister prepared to repay that interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u60	The answer is no. In my view, the reality is more complex than Mr Van Dijck suggests. That inheritance will be dealt with by the notary. Of course, money sometimes remains in a third-party account, but in principle it is possible to divide it between the heirs for the time being, under the note that there is of course to be settled later. I would guard against suggesting that there is a kind of mirror image with what the Secretary of State quite rightly promised to the Chamber, and that is about the other variant, in which citizens do have to pay. That's really different. I've already talked about the IRS and the 450 million. A few parties asked about the implementation of the recommendations of the Tax Administration Committee. On 8 December, your Chamber was extensively informed through a final progress report, which is so beautifully called. In the past year there have also been leading decisions on how to improve the direction of the Tax Administration. I would like to make it clear that this applies to the Tax Administration and also to the core ministry, which also has a very important role to play in this. The change that is needed has not yet been achieved. That's what I just said. These problems are really big, complex and persistent. At the same time, I think we are doing everything we can to solve these problems. Mr. Chairman. Quite rightly, it has been asked whether we are at risk of setbacks with the rest of the service. The strategy of the Tax Administration is, of course, always aimed at making the compliance deficit as small as possible. The question that I have been asked here is the question that I have also asked internally: are we at similar risk elsewhere? That is not the case, I say with the knowledge we have about it at the moment. Because let's face it, we didn't see this coming a year ago. Mr. Chairman. Then I am always an important subject in the monetary policy of the ECB and also a subject in which the Members of this House will realise that they can say more about it than I can. The ECB's mandate is to maintain price stability across the euro area as a whole. That is also the primary objective of monetary policy. This objective has then been translated into an annual inflation rate close to 2% in the medium term. This is also important in itself, given the harmful effects, especially for the Dutch economy, of significantly higher inflation. The ECB shall carry out that task independently. I have just mentioned it: we are very much in favour of this independence and that makes it difficult, if not impossible, to say something about it. However, I have already promised, in my view, during the AFB, that there will be a letter on the risks of the ECB's buy-back programme. I'll keep that promise, too. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a request for the joint report of a number of audit chambers. That is the next piece on the ECB. I agree with those chambers of account that well-organised and final public control of banking supervision, both at national and European level, is important and that if there were such a gap, we should simply close that gap. We, the Chamber in the first place, and the Cabinet in the second place, also have a right to that. I would also point out that if that gap does exist, we must find a solution at European level, because that is also where the problem lies. That's not something I can solve nationally. I believe that this also fits in with the agreements we made earlier within the euro group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u61	Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u62	In De Financieele Dagblad this week it was said that our own General Court of Auditors is experiencing problems in the supervision of DNB because a number of data can no longer be shared. So that makes it not only a European problem of European control, but also a problem of our own bank. We would like to see this resolved as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u63	I understand. This research is carried out by a number of the other audit chambers. I believe that this issue should also be taken into account explicitly, because I see exactly the point raised. I just don't have an acute solution right now. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the windfall formula. Some might say "the fine grinding of trendary fiscal policies." Others might say that they are also cutting down the trend in fiscal policy. That's a little dependent on who you talk about that. The core of the trendary fiscal policy, as laid down in the government agreement, is to steer on fixed expenditure ceilings and automatic stabilisation on the revenue side. As a result, net losses and losses do not result in adjustments. I have just briefly touched on Mr Nijboer's point of overheating, which I very much recognize, and whether or not you should do something about it. I believe that sticking to the trendary fiscal policy as closely as possible is the best recipe against overheating. That is also the best recipe to get credit for the point made by Mrs Hennis. There is also one thing that I can do myself and that the Chamber can do. That framework is a maximum framework and not a minimum framework. Should it prove that there is room for manoeuvre again in spring, it is up to the Cabinet and, of course, to the Chamber to decide what is to be done with it. That may not be entirely an answer in the sense that a formula is going to roll out, but also looking at the large package of expenditure we are already doing, I think that with discipline of ourselves it is going a long way in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u64	Indeed, I would like to focus on fine-tuning the moderate budget policy. I understand that the Minister is making a nice effort here to give an answer, but I am not quite satisfied yet. I'd like to fill in that fine grinding. I would therefore urge the Minister to think about such a formula, because the Minister and I both know that disciplinary work in politics is an extremely important challenge. Such a windfall formula is going to help us when it comes to a surplus on a surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u65	I think I should interpret that as an encouragement. As I said earlier, the paradox of the existence of the Minister of Finance is that in some respects it is easier in times when you have to cut back than in times of surplus, because we all want to get along with that. I would certainly like to think about this, but I would like to point out once again that the supporting parties did not choose to include it in the coalition agreement, as it is so fine. However, they have chosen to adhere fully to a trend-based policy. That's, I think, one. Secondly, I hope to find Mr Nijboer on my side, too, that it will then depend on what you are going to do with that money. In view of the economic situation and also in view of the burden relief that the cabinet still has in store, you should then ask yourself the complicated question whether, if you think you should not spend that extra money, you should then give it back by reducing the burden, or whether you should have that extra charged to the balance. Well, then, I guess, that's verse two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u66	I am glad that we are in any case in agreement on the fact that this is absolutely about maintaining the trend of fiscal policy, but also about fine grinding it. I am also pleased that the Minister has promised that he will think about this further. I would actually ask the Minister to send the Chamber a letter on this at the end of February, for example, and to explain further how he intends to complete that formula. I have already said that it is mainly about further reducing public debt. I am very curious how the Minister reflects on, for example, the return of these tax dollars to all those hardworking Dutch. In the end, it is also a matter of reducing the burden. I suggest that at the end of February the Minister brings forward a letter in which he will respond further to my request for such a windfall formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u67	Such requests are difficult to refuse, especially if they are formulated in this way. But for the sake of precision, let me mark two more things. The first question is: is this to further improve the trend of fiscal policy, or is this contrary to that? Let's agree I'll answer that in my letter. That's one. Two. Mrs Hennis said in the first part of her speech that I would take this measure with me. According to this, the question or question hasn't been answered yet. Do we understand each other correctly that I'm going to write that letter and take these questions with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mrs. Hennis, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u69	Yes. I would suggest that the Minister responds in the letter in question to what we mean by'sharpening the trend of budgetary policy' and that he can also use a formula that deals with the windfalls. Should the Minister come to the conclusion that such a formula is not possible, which would surprise me very much, I will of course receive a detailed explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u70	I am pleased that we are talking about this. The CDA already mentioned the landlord tax in the housing debate. The value of houses is increasing, so the proceeds of the landlord's tax are likely to increase enormously. The CDA said it's for the rental sector and the tenants. I very much agreed with that. That's how it plays on different sub-topics. I am strongly in favour of looking at the substance of what the economy needs in a booming economy. Is that flat load relief? Or are companies warmed up and the purchasing power is under pressure and should you look more at people? In this case, the hits are with the tenants. That's something I'm worried about. Is the Minister prepared to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u71	The question is whether Mr Nijboer embraces my caution, which I have just spoken towards Mrs Hennis, heartwarmingly or whether he is asking me for something else. I'm not quite sure yet. I did say at the beginning that I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that it is a very complicated puzzle with regard to our economy. Our economy is very open and just as separate from all the things that we decide in The Hague, we are very much inclined towards the international waves. It is always difficult to assess where you are in the business cycle; see also the recent past. You never know exactly if you're already about to overheat or just before or over it. It's all these complicated questions. Ask three economists and they'll give four other sensible answers. So that's a very complicated puzzle. That is where my caution comes from towards Mrs Hennis. What I wanted to underline from what Mr Nijboer said earlier is that if you were to find that you have reached or almost reached an overheating point in that cycle, you should ask yourself whether you need to spend more or reduce even more burdens. It is precisely these two things that could further promote overheating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u72	The Minister and I are in complete agreement. That's also my point: don't throw oil on the fire. At the same time, you can already see that the CDA is already working on the Housing Budget, the VVD is already starting to talk about reducing burdens, which will increase political pressure. That is why I am in favour of looking at the substance of the economy as well. Is it the companies that stand very well? What's under pressure? Do you have to deal with the worst need there? I think that's wise. Otherwise, we will have a formula and a boom-bust economy that will be further enlarged. That is really something that is unwise for both public finances and the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mr Nijboer is very pleased that he is still trying to take me on a more slippery path than I was actually prepared to go on. I indicated that I wanted to ask the question. Mr Nijboer replied and added a number of things politically, which I can very much imagine in view of his political orientation. But let me complicate the puzzle that we are trying to put together on two points; even more complicated, I must say. The first is: asking the question is not yet answer it, because that might be a very complicated answer to give. That's one. The second is that complicated that when you try to do something anticyclical in the economy, you always have the discussion about what is so beautifully referred to in the economy as a "decision lay," an "implementation lay" and so on and so on. Everyone in this house will recognize that, whether they love Keynes more or less. So it is also a question of whether, if we recognize the right moment, we are able to do the right thing afterwards. Then I think the chaos is almost complete, but I keep the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u74	I welcome the Minister's commitment to write a letter on fine-cutting budgetary policy. I would like to suggest that he also responds to my questions on the Budgetary Framework for Care, on outstanding nominal premiums and on the tax increase. Let me explain. I understand very well that we are assuming a very sharp separation between burdens and expenditure. I don't necessarily want to get rid of that either. However, the Study Group on Budgets has made some comments on this. One of the reasons why they want to stick to this is that we do have a sharp separation between expenditure and costs, but not really a sharp separation between the different expenditure frameworks. Suppose we have a sharp separation between the Budgetary Framework Care and the other two frameworks. Then it would be easier, for example, to have a windfall formula in the Budget Framework Care. We discipline each other. We believe that this expenditure should be moderated, especially in the case of the cure. If that succeeds and if there are windfalls, it is right that this should also be reflected in lower nominal premiums and in the citizens' wallets. My brief question, therefore, and I refer to the Study Group on Budgets, is: could you also address this issue in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Snels is very aware that he does not make life easy for me. I have just indicated to Mrs Leijten of the SP that I am in favour of transparency, but that we are probably not going to find each other in the substantive part of the healthcare response. Secondly, I have indicated, in my view, to Mrs Hennis, that looking at the most optimal policy is sensible, that we take the essence of the policy, that is to say, the trend budgeting, and that the first question you have to answer is: is it grinding or grinding off? I would love to puzzle again on that question, but I think Mr Snels will have to do about it. I am not optimistic about the possibility that we will get closer to each other in terms of content in the short term as in the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u76	I understand very well that you cannot anticipate a position or a change of position, or a change of fiscal policy. However, I would ask you to look again at the Budget Space Study Group, because, of course, they themselves can see that, as it has now been formulated, it could not be entirely optimal, also from the point of view of budgetary policy and the moderation of healthcare expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u77	I think we talked about that report last time. It is excellent that Mr Snels has taken this into account in more detail. I am also saying this in anticipation of his next questions, which are the same questions as last time about gas. I heard him and he heard me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr Van Dijck has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u79	About that letter: I think it's rather hypocritical that the VVD is bringing it up now. In the previous cabinet we had a windfall formula. When it applied, it wasn't used. In that letter, if he thinks about a windfall formula, can the Minister also indicate how we can force the coalition parties, in particular the VVD, to apply that formula? Because of course we have nothing to do with a formula in the budgetary rules that is not applied when it applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u80	Don't let me meddle in the budding friendships in this house. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the next subject, which I believe is of particular interest to some people. That's: what brings you under the box? There are actually two issues at stake here. That is not exactly what we are talking about for the first time. It is about that report from the summer of 2016, which Mr Snels also referred to. What did that study group try to do? That, I believe, is the real link to the debate we just had. That study group has in the knowledge that quite a lot of things in the Netherlands already work quite procyclically, thought: how can we ensure a little more stabilisation? The study group considered bringing gas and interest rates under the framework. I believe that, last time, I indicated that this debate on interest rates has come back a number of times. The interest rate has been under it before, and then it's been taken out. So I think it is fair to say that the exact or perfect answer may not exist, but I think that this leads to a clear logic. I would also like to add that, for example, we have taken out a large proportion of the benefits, precisely to ensure that they do not become part of the discussion. I have just heard the speakers a little less about that. To be honest, I think that this is a sensible consideration for the things that can be influenced. Then perhaps you'll come back to a difficult dilemma at the point of gas? Of course, that's a bit of a classic as-dan question. Yeah, maybe. At the same time, it is up to the Court to consider this in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u81	That raises a question for Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yes. I simply agree with the point of interest and benefits. I support that, because I think that is quite right, but the misery is that a disaster is taking place in Groningen. That was not in the budgetary framework. If it could be practical, if the light didn't go out and if the companies could walk, the gas extraction could just go down as far as possible. Now, as the Minister calls it, it is a matter of balancing the Chamber and we must say: cut back on the police and then we will save the Groningen. That's a really lousy starting position. That is why we have tabled a motion supported by the entire opposition. I don't want to say: close the hospital or fire the policemen, because the gas extraction in Groningen has to go down. I don't think that's necessary. It can just get out of the balance. The Minister has chosen not to do so. So I don't want him to lay this down with me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u83	No, I think we're running a little short, but I'm going to say something very specific first. We are all aware of this, and I do not think that we should take the same approach either: the province of Groningen is in a very complicated situation. That's one. Two: I also believe that we are in complete agreement that security is paramount, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly said, and that we all want to resolve this in a proper, decent and sound manner, regardless of any political group we are. This is about the budgetary system. Mr Nijboer asks a question like 'Dan': if that gas crane were to close further, what would we have to cut back on? We're not there yet. I do not think that, especially if something is said about this, it is right to take the very well-balanced decision that the Study Group on Budgets has tried to take to see how we can ensure more stability. Exactly the opposite has happened with the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u84	I totally agree with those benefits. The point is that the Minister for Economic Affairs himself says in Groningen: we need to bring that gas extraction further down. I am pleased about that; I support it, and I think it is right. That's what the Groningen deserve. The second point is that the political decision has been taken that we will have to cut back elsewhere. I was against that, but the Minister did. Then it is not surprising that I am asking in a debate on the budget how this is going to be resolved. Or were those words of Minister Wiebes worth nothing and the Minister renounced them? So the key question is whether the finances are leading. Or can gas extraction go down and then the Minister of Finance is looking for a solution to finance it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr Nijboer pretends that there would be free money. In both cases, you have to pay that bill, either in the short term or in the long term. It's that simple. On the contrary, I would like to exchange views with the financial spokesmen, the Finance Ministers, on the argument 'then it goes into the balance and we will not suffer from it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr. Nijboer, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u87	Then it runs into the balance and the debt is higher. That's just a political choice. I'm not running away from that. I believe that, if possible, gas extraction should be reduced as much as possible and I accept a slightly higher public debt for that. The cabinet has chosen to make cuts elsewhere. That's going to be huge problems with four coalition partners and it's going to take longer. Then the Groningen people are in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr Snels has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u89	I have a question in addition to Mr Nijboer's comment. We are talking here about trendary fiscal policies and about structuralally prudent and prudent management of public finances. But we know that the gas revenues from Groningen are no longer in the books in the longer term. That's a falling income. That is why, in the end, it is so strange that, in the face of the faster closing of the gas tap, structural austerity is required. That cannot be defended by budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u90	I don't think we're gonna find each other on this subject. It is extremely important, as I have just said, that we are solving major problems in Groningen in a sensible and decent way. That's one. Two: safety is paramount. Three: the other side of this story is really that the Chamber deserves to be able to make an integral assessment of this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u91	Before you continue, how far along are you? May I have a small indication? This is also what I am asking for in view of time. Mr. Snels, do you have another question on the same subject? I have the feeling that this has been dealt with quite extensively, but that you simply do not find each other at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u92	I'm asking for insight. Can the Minister give me an insight into the long-term benefits that we have from the gas from Groningen? Let's say until 2030. That can also be done in writing. I believe that we can then see along two different paths when the gas tap is turned off and what that means for public finances. I don't think it's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u93	That would make the problem that has just been outlined much smaller. What I can, of course, undertake is that I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy what he can and cannot do about it. The Chamber will forgive me if I do not know exactly what moment in the future he can make those calculations. But I suspect he will be able to do so at least for the next ten years, with all kinds of ifs and buts and pluses and minuses. Mr President, the really complicated question was, of course, how much longer I need. How much longer can you give me? I have to say something about a very small subject called Brexit and about interest rate derivatives. In any case, for the second term of the Christian Union, I have to return to the in=terminal. But then I'm a long way off. And I don't want to forget IKEA, because some of us are particularly interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u94	That sounds good. I just wanted to point out that we're getting a little stuck with time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on quickly. I'll go straight to the Brexit. In my view, this is also a very logical link to the discussion we have just had about the economic situation and the question of what wise budgetary policy is. The Brexit is, in the familiar terminology, a "known unknown." You know the Brexit's coming at you, but you don't know exactly how big it is and how big it is. It is important that we realize that the Brexit will be a formidable challenge for the Netherlands. I am thinking first of all of our trading position in the economic situation and secondly of the discussion on the European multiannual budget, which is coming towards us a little later. It will not have escaped anyone's notice that the Netherlands is really at the front of the queue to cope with the misery. The Netherlands will join shortly after Ireland. Some say 'like Denmark', 'just before Denmark' or 'just after Denmark', but at least we are in the top three. So that's not a good prospect. That also means something for the space that we still think we have for spending. That is the first point. The second point is the following. Of course we're working on scenarios. We're looking at what we can and can't influence. It is important to stress that many of the negotiations are still going on at this stage, I would add, at European level. The Netherlands can have indirect influence on this, but at least it is not sitting at the table with the British at the moment. The number of files in which this could eventually be done is relatively limited even with a hard Brexit variant. As soon as we have moved on, I would very much like to update the Chamber on this. This will be possible to a large extent in the public domain as far as the Dutch commitment is concerned. Should that ever become relevant, it may need to be done in private. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude this second term with the interest rate derivatives and IKEA. By looking at Mr Bruins of the Christian Union kindly, I am still trying to buy some time. I want answers to his questions in the second term, because then we'll keep the speed in. As far as interest rate derivatives are concerned, I think we are completely united. My predecessor has, in my view, made a great effort to "enthusiasm" banks in order to solve this problem. He succeeded in that. That is not a small achievement, because he did not have any formal means of printing. These banks then started working, assisted by three experts in the framework. My perception is that they then worked hard on this, but also failed to meet deadlines several times. I taste and share the frustration of many here who say: that is the next missed deadline. What can I do about it? I have already had a conversation with the AFM about this, I have already had a conversation with the Dutch Association of Banks and talk to banks about this. I think our stakes are the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u96	As a banker, I wouldn't really sit and listen to the minister with nodding knees. Actually, we want them to feel it. Look, those SMEs have been in trouble for two or three years; they've been getting derivatives lubricated, and they didn't look like anything. But those bankers put it off and they don't feel a thing. My key question was: is the Minister prepared to let the bankers do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u97	Here the terminology is important. I have already indicated that my predecessor, in my view, has managed to persuade the banks to do something about this problem, knowing that he did not have a legal instrument to force them to do so. The banks then agreed to this. My perception is that there is a lot of work going on, but at the same time the disappointment is great for everyone, including Mr Nijboer and myself, who expected that would be completed by the end of 2017. I would really like to propose to Mr Nijboer that, as is so well known, the banks should also 'enhanced dialogue'. I do not see so much in a discussion about making them feel, as Mr Nijboer calls it. Threatening that sounds like it, but I haven't gotten to that point yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u98	Surely I would appreciate it if the Minister could also put the following question on the table in this 'intensive dialogue': 'Do you think it can be explained that your employees who lend credit to SMEs receive bonuses while the people to whom that credit is granted are in misery?'. Will the Minister also put that question on the table in that discussion? Otherwise, I think they're just gonna listen to it. This has been going on for two or three years and so little is happening. Too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u99	I do not think that we should look for these types of instruments, even though I believe that they have the risk of a relatively empty threat. I do not think the important point is how these banks organised themselves. The important point, in my opinion, is the expectations raised and the failure to meet those expectations, which I think we are all frustrated about. I think that's the problem we want to solve. I got to the last block: IKEA. There are a few important things to say about this. The first concerns the ruling policy itself. As a Dutch cabinet, we believe that this ruling policy has great advantages in predictability. There is therefore no discount; it is an instrument to clarify the picture to companies in advance. With the second, the Chamber is very well-known: we are investigating the rule-making policy and how we implement it. The Secretary of State informed the Chamber in detail and had an extensive exchange of views with her on this matter. Thirdly, last Friday we heard that the Commission is going to investigate what is going on in the Netherlands in the specific case of IKEA. It has raised two specific points. I have said that we are going to cooperate fully on this, which I think is perfectly logical, but that until now I have not seen any information in the Ministry suggesting or suggesting that the Commission is right. I think that's a very important distinction to make. There's another piece to it, but that's more about the Secretary of State. He quite rightly says in his letter that he is unable to communicate, simply cannot communicate about individual rulings. That goes for me, of course. So I tried to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Snels, may I ask you to be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u101	Very briefly. There seems to be a difference between your words and the words of the Secretary of State in his letter. The Secretary of State says in his letter that it is very important for the European Commission to investigate the rulings. That's one. You seem to say that you do not really see any reason to do so. That seems to me to be a difference of opinion. Then there's my second question. In fact, you are premature, because I cannot imagine that you, as Minister of Finance, know exactly what those rulings with IKEA look like. That's your job now. So it is also wise that there should be research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u102	For the sake of precision, what I said yesterday, also on TV at RTL, is that we are going to participate fully in the research. These are different words, but I think this is the same as what the Secretary of State said. The second thing I said in answer to a question was that I did not find any information in the Ministry suggesting that there is something going on in this particular case. That's what I've been trying to say. It is clear that the Commission has indicated that it wishes to carry out research on two specific points. In my view, the Secretary of State and I are not only aware of this, but, although we are using different wordings, we are really speaking with one voice, as the Chamber requires us to do under state law. Mr. Chairman. I realize that I will come back to Mr Bruins' question in second place. Then I think I have answered the other questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u103	I have that impression, too. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We will proceed with speed with the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV. You all have a third of the speaking time you had in the first term. Then you can start math. Mr Van Dijck therefore has three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you, Mr President. There's two questions I've been asking you. I do not want to do it by interrupting, because perhaps I missed it at the very beginning of the debate. It's possible. My first question was about the payments to Brussels, in response to the answers to question 15. I'll help the minister. Our contribution to Brussels goes from 7 billion in 2017 to 9 billion in 2019. GDP is growing, of course, but the GNI rate is also adjusted proportionally by 0.15%. My other question, which would also be answered in the second term, is how can we repay 115 billion on public debt, which is actually falling down in the same public debt by 10 billion. Mr. Chairman. We just got the purchasing power cards from the Minister of Social Affairs for 2018. I do not know if the Minister of Finance has already seen this, but the adage is: everyone must feel that things are getting better. This year the economy is growing by more than 3%, next year by 3.1%. I have news for the breadwinner with a morale income. In particular, I would like to look at the Christian parties. It will fall by 0.2% next year. The breadwinner with a morale income is thus screwed with this cabinet. The single person with a benefit is also declining, as are those with a small pension. They're all going backwards next year. So at least those groups aren't gonna feel it. What also strikes me is that the promised median of 0.6% for 2018 is not reached by anyone. Everyone remains below 0.6% increase in purchasing power. I therefore find it scandalous that parties like the VVD say that people should feel it. Not words, but deeds, I'd say. While the money goes against the plinths of finance, citizens with a few crumbs, not even a tenner, are being shipped off. It's sweeteners. The increase in purchasing power is negligible. I told you, next year's 0.6% will not even be reached. This increase is therefore made dependent on an increase in wages which employers must achieve. And now, sanctimoniously arriving with a windfall formula. The previous cabinet had such a formula. I'd like to remind you of that. When this formula applied, Minister Dijsselbloem did not give home. Another false promise from the VVD. How often do people think they can fool voters? To help the VVD a little bit, I'll file the next motion. I wonder if they're going to vote against this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the economy is growing by more than 3% this year and next year;]] [[noting that the purchasing power of citizens in the Netherlands is barely increasing, making them hardly benefit from this growth;]] [[noting that public expenditure is growing substantially by 3.6% in 2018;]] [[calls on the government to step up its efforts to reduce the burden on citizens, so that they can also see in their wallets that things are improving economically,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34845-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. Then the debacle at the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u106	May I remind you that you've actually run out of time already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u107	Well, then I'll get to the motion soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u108	Very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u109	The debacle at the Tax Office deserves a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 17,000 people are waiting entirely out of blame for their inheritance or donation because the Tax Administration does not have its ICT system in order;]] [[noting that the Minister's proposal not to charge tax rates on attacks is only logical, but far too lean;]] [[calls on the government to pay tax interest on the donation and/or the inheritance to those who have had to wait outside their fault, in order to compensate for the negligence on the part of the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34845-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I call Mrs Hennis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, many thanks to the Minister for his comprehensive reply. The Van Dijck motion in part No. 3 on burden relief that has just been submitted, of course I find very charming, but I have not heard proper coverage. The VVD will certainly vote against. That does not alter the fact that I am pleased that the so-called 'failure formula' has the attention of this minister. I can explain to Mr Van Dijck why that formula was not used by the previous cabinet. That was simply because there was a coalition agreement at hand. They did not want to get in the way of the parties who were at the negotiating table. In short, there's a story behind that. I am still in favour of this formula, but I also indicated in the first term that I think it is important for the Minister to have a moment to think about it. Let me say again in the direction of the Minister: I am really talking here about fine grinding, as he himself said so beautifully, of the trend in budgetary policy. Redemption of sovereign debt is a priority, including for the VVD. I say right away: over the past few years, the crisis has been only just behind us, and it has been difficult for a lot of people in the Netherlands. It is not only thanks to the Dutch government that things are going well now. This is due to everyone in the Netherlands. I therefore believe that it is really important for people in the Netherlands to see and feel that we are at least taking a step forward in the context of any reduction of charges if there is a surplus on a surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mrs. Hennis, Mr. Van Dijck is waiting for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u113	I have a final sentence, Mr. Chairman. In short, I would like to see the Minister's letter somewhere at the end of February. I do so without prejudging things, so I say right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u114	The windfall formula calls for a reduction in the burden at least in the previous cabinet. Mrs Hennis is now arguing for a windfall formula and accusing me of not having indicated coverage in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u115	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dijck!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u116	But what's her cover for the windfall formula? There's just a shortage, you know!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u117	Sure, but if there is a surplus on a surplus. You are now going to anticipate a possible surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u118	No, I'm asking for a relief that runs in the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u119	Apologies. Then I didn't hear you correctly. Then I was just too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u120	Okay. Then I don't have to wear cover for that, just like you don't have coverage for your formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u121	Then Mr Van Dijck is still moving too fast. I've jumped to conclusions. Apologies to Mr Van Dijck for that. But then Mr Van Dijck still goes too fast. It would be a good thing for him to at least hold the motion and wait for the Minister's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u122	Thank you. Mr Snels has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I thought it was a pleasant debate, in which we also received many answers to questions. I thank the Minister for his observation that 891 million will remain available for the SDE+ scheme for next year. I can therefore assume, in budgetary terms, that this will also be visible in the first supplementary budget 2018. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to give greater clarity and understanding of the windfalls in the spring. As has also been changed in this Chamber today, our particular interest is in the Budgetary Framework Care, especially when you look at the significant undersufferings of the past five years. It is good if the Minister would analyse the difference between cure and care. I would also like to thank the Minister for the letter he promised Mrs Hennis. I am assuming that we have some differences of opinion as to how we should look at budgetary rules, but I do assume that some of the questions I have are answered in the same letter and in any case, also with a look at the report of the Study Group on Budgets, an explanation is provided. Finally, in the same context, I would like to thank him for the commitment to work with the Minister of EZK on the scenario of reducing gas benefits and what happens when we finally reach zero. I assume that the Ministry of Finance is involved. My point was, after all, that gas revenues are no longer structural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his answers. He has clearly addressed the questions that exist with my group and with me. I would like to go into two more details, precisely because I think that sometimes the arrival of a new finance minister can put a little more pressure on us. He certainly shouldn't fail to do so either. The very first point is the interest rate derivatives. I have given his answer that he does not really have any legal means, but I think that the Minister of Finance, with his position towards the banks, who really do have a useful function, can push a little bit more. I also hope that in his intensive dialogue he really wants to achieve that, as the banks have often pointed out in that sense, it is 'a man a man, a word a word' that you have to keep. I really hope that he is trying to stretch out a little further that, in addition to legal matters, there can also be something of authority and authority. On the issue of loan assistance, I am satisfied that the Minister is trying to find something before 1 April 2018. For myself, the follow-up question is why it would be more convenient for this to be taken into account in the Spring paper than it is now in the budget. I would like to make that clear. This kind of, yet somewhat dragging dossiers, I think you should try to complete it as quickly as possible, just at the very beginning, even now that the windfalls seem to be a little larger. In particular, you should have completed the uncertainties towards the future as soon as possible. I am thinking again of the Brexit, just like the uncertainties that we may still have when it comes to tax revenue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller, because Mrs Leijten of the SP has been excused.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. A number of things have been pushed through that I wanted to say a few words about. One is loan assistance. I share Mr Slootweg's comments on this, but I have interpreted the commitment in such a way that a solution will be reached before 1 April and that it will be proportionate to the budgets involved. I think the spring note will only come after that, so the solution is already before that. I also understand that we have the same picture in the analysis of the failures and non-tax revenue. So this is also about its nature, i.e. whether the occasional/structural or more efficient policy is implemented, which is simply very positive, or pushed forward, which is less positive. I also assume that we will have that analysis in the annual reports, so that we can have a good debate on this. I also made a comment on the consequences of the Brexit during the debate on the euro group. Now the Minister said: yes, I actually want to share that with the Chamber when we are further along the path. My analysis is the opposite. In my view, it is important to share with the Chamber the calculations made by the CPB last year and also the scenarios that the Minister himself is working on early. With this we also have a clear insight into what would be the consequences in such a chaotic no deal scenario, and we can also reason back what we can do now as Chamber, as the Netherlands, even if we are not directly at the table with the British but in preparation. At least during that debate, the Minister spoke a few reassuring words about thinking about it. So I would like to have a deadline for this, because a letter was announced in which these differences are worked out. Not pushed forward is the filling out of the target indices. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says that this is actually a standard policy, and that this is always fully included in the Navy's note if that is possible? That was not quite clear to me, especially in the light of the expected failures between the Autumn note and the annual financial report of the Empire. So I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, I agree with Mr Slootweg's moral appeal on interest rate derivatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. The windfall formula, you're blessed if you're allowed to think about it after a few months of ministry and break your mind about it, I'd say. It's gonna be quite a job, but it's gonna be an important one, because if those windfalls are there, it's often about a lot of money in the Netherlands. We have a very procyclic economy, so it could just be disappointing. The first year I've been here, there's been an 11 billion-dollar setback in taxes alone. So it can also quickly go the other way. It better be spent usefully. Mr. Chairman. You won't be surprised that I have a motion on the rent supplement. Of course, I'm always looking for a majority. How can I get a majority to get rid of the proposal on cuts in the rent allowance? I was already part of the debate on housing, which, in substance, is open at the CDA. I hear there's an opening with the Minister now. I'd like to try to cash it in. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tenants are only up 0.8% in the coming years and buyers 1.4%;]] [[whereas there are windfalls in the rent payment and the Minister of Finance indicated that this could be taken into account in the spring note;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to analyse whether the windfalls in the rent payment could be used in accordance with the budgetary rules to cover the abolition of the lease provision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34845-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u129	You will notice that I am always looking for a substantive basis for the austerity. I don't get it. So now I'm trying to find a cover that can count on a broad support. There are 74 seats against it, so I only need two colleagues to get it done. I hope this will help. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a motion on the derivatives miserable. By the way, the VVD and earlier the CDA have also drawn a lot of attention to this. As I said in the case of interruption, I do not yet see the nodding knees of the bankers when I hear the Minister's input. There is a need for that. That's why I'm filing the next motion with the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas banks are late over and over again in compensating SMEs with derivatives;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to encourage not only SMEs to suffer and that dialogue with bankers also have a real impact on banks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34845-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bruins has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u132	Madam President. The answers to my questions only come in second term. That's kind of hard for me. The first-term replies on under-utilisation in non-tax revenue and the low estimates were not satisfactory. I have only heard that the Minister will look at the reasons for under-utilisation, but that is precisely what the General Court has already done for us. They have done so for each ministry per budget article. Then you can see that under-utilisation is relatively large, consistent and structural. We have heard about the in=terminal: if we can, we do this and if we can't, we do that. I don't think it's so fancy in such a political debate, but I'm going to table two motions anyway. They are therefore apolitical motions. They're just about good budgetary rules. I can always rescind them if I still get good answers in second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the General Court's report on non-tax revenue, the majority of ministries estimate and budgetize non-tax revenue structurally too low;]] [[believes that careful estimates and budgeting are sensible, but that estimates and budgets should be realistic;]] [[Calls on the Government to evaluate and, if necessary, tighten up the instructions for the budgeting of non-tax revenue in order to reduce the differences between estimates and realisations, and to report on them to the Chamber in spring;]] [[calls on the Government to do so to ensure that any tightening-up can be taken into account in the budget cycle for 2019 and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in several years the government has been dealing differently with the level and extent of the assignment;]] [[calls on the Government to follow a permanent system for the assignment from the 2018 Autumn Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34845-7]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34845-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at the minister. He wants a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u135	I'm reopening the meeting. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you, Mr President, and I have heard your letter of formal notice. The first question that had remained outstanding was a question from the PVV about the GNI contribution to Europe. The answer to that question is that the increase in the EU's contribution is due to the delay in European spending. Quite frankly, there has been a considerable delay, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. As a result, European expenditure in '16, '17 and '18 is significantly lower than previously foreseen in the agreement on the current multiannual financial framework. Mr Van Dijck also asked about the 118 billion. That was the possible confusion we had about the question: what is it about? Let me try again. The 118 billion repayment referred to by Mr Van Dijck concerns the repayment of long-term loans which are part of the public debt. Every year, part of the current public debt needs to be resolved. I've also looked it up in the table. I would also like to give this to Mr Van Dijck, although I think he was already in the pieces. This sum shall be used for the purpose of the calculation of the own funds requirements set out in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and in Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on credit institutions, amending Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and So it's the repayments on the long-term... I see Mr Van Dijck nodding. Then I'll be at the Brexit again. I very much agree with what Mr Sneller has said. I just assumed that we both realized that I would come up with a letter in the first quarter anyway. What I mentioned was for the period after that. Perhaps I myself have caused confusion, which I do not think should be there. I thought I might have failed Mr Bruins a little less than I thought I might have to make out from his second term. Well, two things didn't work out. The first question was whether the space under the overall framework used for the in=terminal is common. It refers to Table 2.2. Is this typical of what a cabinet does in the last year in which the expenditure frameworks have been established? This in=terminal shall in principle be completed as soon as possible. That is what we consider prudent policy. The annual financial report may show that there are more shortcomings. In that case, they will be in favour of the balance. So it is customary to fill in the in=outline with space under the overall frame. I think that was the first question. Let me now turn to the second question. I will also come to the motions in a moment, but with this I prelude to the motions tabled by Mr Bruins. This is something Mr Bruins has hinted at and about which Mr Sneller of D66 has explicitly asked a question, namely: is the standard policy always to do it by autumn note? There is an existing system, but the moment varies in the year. You could say it's prudent to fill it in as soon as you have the opportunity. Then I'm on a number of motions. The first motion is the Tony van Dijck/De Jong motion in part No. 3 on purchasing power. I must advise against this motion, because it will take place in the future. It is also difficult to compare with trendy budgeting. The Van Dijck motion in part No. 4 is about the notaries. I have tried to explain that it is quite right what the Tax Administration is going to do in the area of refunding interest, but that we think that it really is true that the notary has the space and the freedom to move in it in the vast majority of cases. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion, too. Then I come to the Nijboer motion in part No. 5. It commends Mr Nijboer for being so consistent in his views and looking for the possibilities. In this form, however, I must discourage the motion, because there is no cover for it. It is not yet clear whether this windfall is structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u138	I always listen very carefully to the Minister. He said in reply to Mr Van Dijck, who rightly pointed out to him that there was a windfall in the rent payment, that this could be included in the Spring Note. I therefore chose exactly that wording in the motion. Now it may be that the Minister meant it differently. Then I'll adjust the motion. But how did he mean the answers to Mr Van Dijck just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u139	Any subject can be included in the Spring Note. That's obvious. But I have also indicated that I do not wish to make any comment in any way that either preaches that we are going to do so, or that we are not going to do so. I think that is sensible in my role as well; Mr Nijboer will acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u140	That is already a gain, because the coalition agreement says to do it, so if you don't want to prelude on both sides, I will take it. Or I'm actually being sent here, just like Mr Van Dijck, again with a brat in the reeds. It's possible, but actually, anything can happen. Of course, that wasn't the question. Mr Van Dijck just said: there is a windfall on the rent payment. You give that answer and we think: well, maybe we can do something with that, let's take a look at that. So what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr President, just here: I will never use the words 'puff in the reed' and Mr Nijboer in one sentence. Let us be absolutely clear about that. There are two things, and Mr Nijboer has much more experience in this, so he knows very well how the rules of the game work here. Firstly, there is a coalition agreement. Mr Nijboer knows as well as I do how extremely difficult it is to reach a coalition agreement in the Netherlands, especially with four parties, and that these agreements stand like a house. That's the first part. The second part is, as Mr Nijboer knows, that there is always the possibility of adapting matters in the spring paper. I pointed that out, and I said that I do not want to excite or disappoint anyone in the first place, either in a positive or in a negative way. I have heard very clearly that the Chamber has also said: should we not keep money that may be extra in the bag? That's actually going a whole other way. I think that was Mrs Hennis' idea, too. I shall now turn to the second motion tabled by Mr Nijboer, which was also signed by Mr Slootweg, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nijboer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 6. Perhaps I should say a few words about the discussion with the banks about derivatives. Mr Slootweg said that the Minister should not fail himself. That's how I heard him. That is a reproach that I have not received very often, but I have heard it well and I thought that the Chamber was also considering a hearing. I think that speaking softly, but carry a big stick applies here; don't try to make very macho statements here as a minister, which are legally very difficult to make. I am convinced that this debate will have been followed intensively, perhaps not throughout the Netherlands, but by those who are involved in this sector, and that it will also be seen what the Chamber expects of me. At least I'd like to ask you to hold that motion. I have understood the Chamber very well, but I would prefer to go for the Damocles idea, if I may put it that way, rather than carry something in my backpack that I don't know if I can do it at all. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 7, which concerns the non-tax revenue of Mr Bruins. I think that goes in the direction of the answer I have just given. That is why I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber, because I have no objection to it, if that is a wording I may still use, Mr President, because I know that the rules have changed. I think Chamber's judgment was still a possibility. I see you nodding. Then I come to Mr Bruins' second motion, the motion in part No. 8. I hope he will see that, given the answer I have just given in his direction and in the direction of D66, he is perhaps going a little too short, because then we are failing ourselves when it comes to flexibility. So I'd like to discourage that motion, because I don't think we need her either. We can see with each other what prudent policies are or are not. If I can do it that way, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u142	Maybe I can ask the Minister for the following. In the Spring note there is always a standard sentence: so and so we apply the in=terminal. Would he like to look at this sentence with some extra attention in the next Spring paper? Perhaps he would like to add another sentence to clarify how we deal with it in this country? If I can get that commitment from him, I'd prefer to withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u143	I think we're good at that. I have the impression that we have already tried to provide a lot of information by answering the many questions that have come from the Chamber. I propose that I refer to the answer to Mr Bruins' question in connection with Mrs Leijten's wider request for transparency, among others. Because I think these are things that are at least interrelated, not to say that they go hand in hand. So I think we can solve it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u144	That is very nice and then the motion has been withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u145	Since the Bruins motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u146	I'm gonna think about that for a while, Mr. Chairman. I didn't think it was right for the Minister to say, "We're going after them." So I'm gonna think about that for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u147	Then I'll look at the minister. If Mr Nijboer does not hold up this motion and put it to the vote, what is the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u148	However, may I say one more sentence against Mr Nijboer who precedes that judgment. I do not know if I have succeeded, because Mr Nijboer has to judge that. But I have tried to express both my frustration and my sense of urgency on this issue. I have also tried to outline that it is not so easy to operate in legal terms. So my question to the Chamber is to give me time to complete the intensive dialogue I think was that the words I used earlier were perfect. And I have no objection to it when one realizes throughout the country what motion is hanging over my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u149	Then I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u150	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (34845, No. 6) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u151	That brings us to the end... No, I see Mrs Leijten still has a burning question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u152	I apologise for missing part of the Minister's reply, but we have of course listened very carefully. And there is one thing that has not yet been answered, namely an amendment that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr President, I probably look as perplexed as I am at the moment. Perhaps Mrs Leijten can help me further on. What haven't I answered yet? I thought I'd been full.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u154	We have tabled an amendment to remove the plague discount. There is money left in Social Affairs and Employment and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u155	I can see that the Minister is already clear, Mrs Leijten. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u156	Yeah, but since the minister didn't know where I was going at all, I'd like to explain to him what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u157	No, no, Mrs. Leijten. I have just agreed that we would very much like to continue with the next debate here at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u158	This is also about Social Affairs, Chairman. I'd like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mrs Leijten, the Minister is going to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u160	I'll leave it in the middle whether it was freudian or not that I forgot. That's the first part of my answer. I have already given the second part of my answer in the first period, namely that this terminology is really the wrong one, because it does not do justice to the policy. And the conclusion of those two things together is that I can't agree to this. That will probably not surprise Mrs Leijten either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mrs Leijten, a second comment very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u162	How sad is it that we say to people we promised to have adapted work, which we did not then create, now you get a bully discount, but, yes, there is also money left in the budget? Suppose the minister said: it is necessary for people to be cut short because then they will go to work. Then you have to take care of that work in the first place and, if there isn't, you have to make sure that these people keep their income. Then you don't bully them by cutting them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mr President, if I am not mistaken, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is currently eager to enter this Chamber. Maybe it's even smoother than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-6.u165	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of this discussion. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
