ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue to deal with the budget for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	We had stayed with Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA. I'm giving her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. "Every child deserves the chance to get the best out of themselves." With those words, I decided my maiden speech earlier this year. Today, exactly eight months later, we are discussing in this Chamber the budget of the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, because equal opportunities begin in education. Over the past eight months, I have been on the road as a new Member of Parliament, to schools in primary education, secondary education, vocational education, practical education and universities and colleges. I spoke with students, students, parents, teachers and administrators and heard many stories full of passion, enthusiasm, dreams and ambitions. I will never forget the tour I received from two super proud students from Hofstede, a school of practical education, where in their words "every child may be himself even if you are a little different." Or the equally proud team leader of primary school De Watertoren, where all teachers, the children and their parents come in personally. Or the group of students from the Albeda College that I was allowed to teach guests and who were eager to get to work in healthcare. But, Mr. Chairman, fair is fair. I heard a lot of pain during all these conversations. Pain I also read back in the comments in the closed Facebook group of PO in action where we were invited as educators to come and listen with. The workload, as depicted by Master Peter as a colander with eleven holes that you try to close with ten fingers, the shortage of qualified personnel that sometimes require sending whole groups home and children do not get the attention they deserve. Above all, the lack of appreciation for teachers and the feeling of not being taken seriously, which is also reflected in the pay gap between primary and secondary education. Mr. Chairman. A lot has happened in recent years. In 2016, extra money came to fight inequality in education, teachers' salaries finally came off the line and, thanks to the actions of the p.o. front, a first important step of 270 million extra for teachers in primary education was taken for the summer. But, as all mentioned stories make painfully clear, it is far from enough. We can make this a political game, and we have already seen it, but let us agree that education is too important to turn into a political game. Isn't it really very simple? Everyone simply needs access to the very best education so that all children and adults can get the best out of themselves. That requires the very best and enough teachers. The PvdA therefore wants to invest heavily in teacher salaries and work pressure reduction so that every child gets sufficient and proper attention in the classroom, but also in equal opportunities and security to ensure that regardless of your origin, belief, sexual identity, gender, age, disability or income, you know for sure that you can be the best version of yourself anytime and anywhere. And that starts at school. That is why parents and children must be sure of the very best teacher for the class; certainty number one in my speech today. That security is under pressure, I regret to note. It's not for nothing that girls and masters in primary school are gonna lay down their jobs next week. Moreover, not only are there problems in primary education, but teachers in secondary education, higher education and vocational education are also concerned about working pressure, lack of teachers and the attractiveness of their profession. Or, as the petition of VO in action that we received last week as a committee put it succinctly: it is time for quality. That is why, together with GroenLinks and the SP, we are tabling amendments for 1.4 billion extra salary and work pressure reduction in the p.o. and vo. Because if we want there to be enough enthusiastic and good teachers not only today but also tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, then we need to invest more in teachers' salaries and in reducing the workload, rather than in companies and banks, in people rather than in multinationals. Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, the cabinet is releasing money to reduce workload and we are pleased with that, but this will only be available from 2021. That is, of course, far too late for many children and teachers. That is why I would like to join Mr Westerveld in putting peanut butter more evenly over the sandwich, so that teachers are already going to notice some of it instead of three years from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	I regard Mrs van den Hul's words as those of an ally in the fight for better education. I can only appreciate that. Nor can it help that she is a member of the Labour Party, which has been allowed to supply the Minister of Education in recent years. And of course it sounds very nice, that "thank you for investing now but it's all far too little." But I say to Mrs van den Hul: over the past five years, the PvdA has been in power and, contrary to what she says, no euro has been invested; even more, there has been a structural gap of almost half a billion euros left for this cabinet. I would almost say: how is it that she seems to ignore that and says that what this cabinet is doing now, so investing 1.9 billion, is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	This is the introduction you knew was coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	Indeed, I consider myself an ally. And indeed, I am a member of the PvdA. The PvdA who made a lot of money available for teacher salaries in the election program, as opposed to a number of other parties in this Chamber. The PvdA who was in a coalition with the VVD. The PvdA which did indeed provide a Minister for Education, who ensured that teachers' salaries have been removed from the baseline for the first time in a long time and that they have also invested in other fields of education. And indeed that was not enough; I will be the first to admit it. But now you-bake, that's exactly what I meant. It doesn't help the teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	Yeah, but the image has to be complete. And that image isn't complete without the fact that there's just a gaping hole... I call it "the hole of Asscher." Mr President, I see you looking... You want me to come up with another name for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	You don't want that? Then let's leave it at that. A structural gap of half a billion euros has therefore been left. The PvdA is acting a bit like a pyromaniac who's gonna be complaining after that that the fire department's gonna be late. That's kind of the image I have. I don't mean to be you-bake, but we have to be very specific for a while. This cabinet manages to invest 1.9 billion, despite that gaping gap. I do not like to hear from the PvdA, who left it for five years, that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	I was just surprised to hear something like that out of your mouth, Mr. Van Meenen, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr President, I take that as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	I am perhaps a little less surprised to hear that from Mr Van Meenen. I therefore very much like to leave those qualifications to him. What I can say is that, when the previous cabinet was in office, we were still on the smoking wrecks of a financial crisis. And unlike now, there was no extra money at the time. Now money can be spent on luxury gifts for business and banks, but then money was needed to get the economy back on its feet. In those tight times of crisis, the previous cabinet, with our former Minister of Education, managed to remove the teacher's salaries, which Mr Van Meenen knows for years on the zero line, from that zero line. Mr Van Meenen says we shouldn't go here you-baking. Well, that's getting pretty close to there right now. I'd really like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	You wanted to make another comment, Mr. Van Meenen? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	I don't like you-bake either. I like the truth. I will leave it at that, but we do need to close the period of PvdA administration on education. And we need to make it clear in history that this was the result and that this cabinet not only managed to invest 1.9 billion more, but also to close the gap of 0.5 billion. That's what I want to mark here. I will not hear Mrs van den Hul on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	As a representative of a nuanced middle party like the SP, I feel obliged to intercede here. We see this coming back all the time. The opposition says there's a gap in education. The coalition parties say that gaping hole comes from the Labour Party. I propose that we find each other and note that the largest party in the previous coalition and the largest party in this coalition, the VVD, can initially be addressed at the gap in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	That was a statement by Mr Futselaar. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	Which, of course, I fully agree with. Mr. Chairman. I told you, not only in primary and secondary education, water teachers are at their throats. Also in the MBO there is a shortage of teachers in many places and there is an enormous workload. Does the Minister see an opportunity to contribute to the reduction of workload there too? In higher education, too, there is a growing workload and a lot of work is being done with flex contracts, which means that young teachers in particular are not sure of their future. What is the Minister going to do to give them more certainty? This brings me to my second certainty today: to be sure of equal educational opportunities for all. It has to be and can be even better. For example, the MBOs I speak to on my work visits, or who come to visit me in the Chamber, agree on one thing: the MBO deserves more appreciation and attention. The MBO is not a second choice or intended only as a stepping stone to the HBO. It is a breeding pond of professionals that the Dutch labour market needs so badly. Because let's be honest: we are naked, hungry and have every day a bad hair day without the indispensable skills of mbo's, as my predecessor, Tanja Jadnansing, rightly remarked. So let's do everything we can to ensure that mbos get the equal opportunities they deserve, just like other students. Fortunately, there is now an OV-card for mbo's who follow a sphere-track. Employers should be responsible for travel costs in the case of bl'ers, but we see too often that this does not happen. Some students therefore prefer a bol-training rather than a bbl. We think that's a shame. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with us and, if so, what she can do to accommodate these students who are not reimbursed for travel expenses. Speaking of travel, what is the Minister going to do to ensure that children in shrinking areas have access to the best education without being on the road for hours? Not only in secondary education, but also in the MBO, basic facilities in shrinking regions are increasingly under pressure, as in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, which has already been mentioned by colleague Kwint. This calls for structural solutions. In higher education, students who suffer from special circumstances such as illness or disability may apply for support from a so-called profiling fund. That possibility doesn't exist before the MBO. Does the Minister agree with her predecessor, who wrote that a support fund per institution can offer underage bol students a targeted safety net? Not only profiling funds, but also other facilities are not yet accessible to students in vocational education. For example, look at the Rijkstrainee program, for which you only qualify as an academic master's student. Would it not be a good idea to open this programme to students in vocational education and to ensure that they too can learn to work and develop within the government? There too, MBOs are extremely important, for example in administrative functions, catering, security and ICT. It is precisely within the MBO that cooperation with business is crucial. I would like to hear more about the cabinet's ambitions on this point. Will this cabinet continue the successful Regional Investment Fund? Mr. Chairman. A man is never too old to learn. When I was a kid, I used to go with my mom who taught at an adult education school. The mother mavo was still called that back then. Indeed, I saw many mothers who had often not had the chance in their youth to get the best out of themselves and who took the chance to catch up at a later age, with both hands. Not only for themselves, but also for their families: to move forward, perhaps to pick up a study, find a job and eventually become financially independent. The mother mavo is no longer there, but people who want to invest in themselves at a later age are still there. Lifelong learning, we call it these days. And that's just as important. Not only for people with jobs who want to maintain their knowledge or learn a new profession, but also for people who are remote from the labour market. The study report of the CBS, Lifelong Learning in the Netherlands, shows that women and people with a migration background make less use of lifelong learning. I ask the Minister what opportunities she sees for involving these target groups in the forthcoming policy paper on lifelong learning, in order to ensure that they also have access to second chance education. What will the Minister do with the opinions of the Sap Commission and the ESC to arrive at a skill agreement and a personal development account? Is she going to hang out with her colleague from SZW? In what period can we look forward to the elaboration of these proposals? Lifelong learning is actually about a development path, which starts at second in child care and, if it's okay, never stops. This requires a learning culture, in education but also in business, in government and in health care institutions. More than ever, this means investing in the development opportunities of people for whom this is not self-evident. Does the Minister share the view of the ESC in the recent ESC opinion that the MBO is a hinged function and should therefore become much more accessible to adults? Even for the 2 million low-literate people in our country, the thresholds are sometimes still too high. Until 2018, the Ministry of OCW, as a coordinating department, had 18 million annually available to address low literacy. From 2019 onwards, it's only 7 million, plus the 5 million from the coalition agreement. In the light of this, I ask what the Minister will do to improve the service of low-skilled people in the field of lifelong learning. The PvdA is pleased to read that this cabinet invests in educational disadvantage policies. Every child deserves an honest start, no matter where his crib is. As far as we are concerned, the bar can be much higher. Already in 2015, with the Yücel motion, the Chamber asked for childcare and education from one organisation to be possible, from so-called integrated child centres. In 2016, the SER also recommended a universal system of child services with additional support for children who are lagging behind. However, fiscal barriers still hinder this. Can't the government remove the barriers? I would also like to ask the Minister's response to this. What is this cabinet going to do to promote equal opportunities in higher education? It is precisely with a view to lifelong learning that the accumulation from MBO to HBO, and from HBO to wo, should be easier. Does the Minister agree with me that not only beta and gamma sciences are important, but also alpha sciences? Mr. Chairman. Security number three today is the certainty that you can be one hundred percent yourself. Unfortunately, it is still under pressure in the Netherlands. Only recently, two women in Amsterdam were confronted with violence, purely and simply because they kissed each other in the street. Transhumans are also regularly victims of transphobic violence. If there is one thing that the recent hashtag MeToo has shown is that we are far from there where the safety of women and girls, boys and men is concerned. It is good that victims dare to make their voices heard and no longer have to be ashamed or apologized for their terrible experience. It is hopeful to see that more and more of the perpetrators worldwide have had, or have had to have, consequences for their sexually cross-border behaviour. Not for nothing are The Silence Breakers, the people who break the silence, just declared by Time Magazine to be the person of the year. Mr. Chairman. Sexual resilience starts at school. Fortunately, many schools and teachers pick up that glove and there are beautiful projects and methods that help them. However, there are also schools where sexual resilience and sexual diversity are hardly mentioned. This means that some of their core objectives are very inadequate. Does the Minister see opportunities for improvement here? Does it consider that sexual resilience, security and diversity are sufficiently anchored in the core objectives? Does she agree with us that these themes belong not only to primary schools and secondary schools, but also to MBOs? Mr. Chairman. A hundred years after women in the Netherlands obtained the right to stand as a candidate and almost a hundred years after Suze Groeneweg was the first woman to take part in the House of Representatives, we have to note that we still have a long way to go when it comes to the equal representation of men and women. Because the certainty that it doesn't matter whether you are a man or a woman is unfortunately still not always taken for granted in the Netherlands. Only half of all women in the Netherlands are financially independent. The number of women in this Chamber is even falling, as is the representation of people of colour. The Netherlands is falling in international gender equality lists, such as the Global Gender Gap Report. If we continue at the current pace, according to the World Economic Forum, it will take 217 years for men and women to reach equal positions, professionally, economically and politically. I look forward to the new Minister's letter of emancipation and I sincerely hope that she will also pay attention to women's economic independence. When can we look at this emancipation letter? Minister Bussemaker made money available to female professors earlier this year. Could the Minister indicate what she intends to do to ensure that women also flow into all levels of the organisation in the academic sector, including as a professor? "You can't be what you can't see," says an English phrase: "you can't be what you don't see." It's true. Google to the movie of Redraw The Balance, in which a school class is asked to sign a pilot, surgeon and fire chief. All children draw men. When the teacher then lets a female pilot, surgeon and fire chief into the classroom, one of the babies shouts: but they are dressed up! That is how persistent stereotypes are, at such a young age, and yet our textbooks are full of them. Does the Minister see an opportunity to discuss this with educational publishers? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that emancipation is far from complete. It requires constant attention and direction. As the adoptive mother of Sustainable Development Goal number five, men and women alike, I would like to ask the Minister to urge her colleagues to make gender equality an integral part of their policies. Mr. Chairman. The very best teacher for the class, access to the very best education for everyone and the certainty that you can be 100% yourself: these are the three sureties that people need to be able to build on. I look forward to discussing this with both ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I am now going to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. This year it is a hundred years since public and special schools were co-financed by the government. This year we celebrate the centenary of the fact that all education is treated in the same way, regardless of your vision of society, your vision of humanity, your faith or your educational vision. That is at the heart of Article 23. I trust that this freedom of education is in good hands with these ministers. Every child deserves a school that suits him or her. Common values are shared by teachers and parents, and thus transferred to the next generation. Teachers are the ones who work day in, day out for a future for our children. This makes the Ministry of Education the ministry of the future. I am therefore pleased to read that this cabinet wants to strengthen cooperation between schools and parents. Parental involvement is the most important success factor for children to go through school. What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to promote parental involvement? When can we expect this intention to be fulfilled? For example, parental involvement is needed so that children of all ages learn to handle the Internet and social media consciously and safely. How does the Minister see the role of schools in media wisdom and what is the role of parents in this? Mr. Chairman. I realize that while I'm standing here, it's easy to talk, because I'm not in front of the class. Education has really gotten heavier in recent years. Society has come into the classroom. We see that due to increased workload, increased expectations of government and parents and increased behavioural problems, there is increasing pressure on the teacher. I therefore find it commendable that masters and teachers are always the first to say that they have the most beautiful profession in the world. But increasingly louder is also the call from the field that it can no longer do so, thanks to the broad movement PO in action. Because, chairman, previous government financial donations to do something about teacher salaries, teacher training or more hands for the class didn't give teachers the feeling that they were helped. How is the Minister going to ensure that the new substantial investment in primary education that this cabinet is doing will be effective this time, as the teachers expect us to do? In the coalition agreement, Mr Van Meenen said, there is considerable investment in education, especially in primary education. It is now up to the employers and teachers, in consultation with the minister, to ensure that the money actually comes into the classroom. What tools does the Minister have in his hands to ensure that the difference between the average salary in the p.o. Is it really going to be reduced and the working pressure will really be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	I very much agree with Mr Bruins that we now have to ensure that teachers really find out that there is money. Earlier we saw that it looked very nice through all kinds of mutual agreements on paper, but that there was not much of it in practice. What resources could Mr Bruins think could be used to ensure that the money that is now being released really goes to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	The last time the Christian Union was in the government, an additional billion went to education. Then we saw that it was pretty hard to prove that it actually came into class and actually did something for the teachers. I see that the agreements concluded in later years, when extra money was also provided for education, have indeed produced a demonstrable result. We have heard before in this debate the report of the inspection, State of Education, come along. This shows that that money has indeed gone to personnel costs. It's better to trace, but not good enough, I guess. I would argue that we should now give the Minister the opportunity to talk to employers and employees about the conditions under which this extra money is now going to go to education and how we are going to demonstrate and show that it is actually coming into the classroom: hands for the classroom, less workload and a higher salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	That is a good aim, but if you look closely at, for example, the Financial State of Education, you can see that compared to the total burden, there is a small decrease in the percentage that is now going to the teachers. It is not enough, but there is a small drop, whereas more concrete agreements have been made about money that should go to class. Let me make the question somewhat open: is it conceivable for Mr Bruins to take measures that go beyond a new appointment with the school authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	I have seen the slight decline that Mr Kwint calls it. From my point of view, staff costs go from 92% to 90% or 89% as a percentage of the total. At the same time, we see in the same table that Mr Kwint refers to in the p.o. personnel costs represent the highest percentage of all charges. That percentage is in the p.o. greater than in all other sectors of education. So there's not that much fat on the bones. I think it would be more productive if we first let the Minister talk to employers and employees to see how we can actually do something about primary and secondary working conditions. This responsibility lies primarily with employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. A serious approach to the shortage of teachers cannot be achieved without making education more attractive to men. In the past year, local master groups have united in a national collaboration and there are more and more initiatives on pabos to work on diversity, both on the axis of man-woman diversity and on other axes. There are nice plans ready to go through this country as well. Are the Ministers prepared to discuss with the Master Groups Minister Slob and with the Pabo's Minister Van Engelshoven how this new emancipation of men in education can get a big boost? Does Minister Van Engelshoven also take into account that, in addition to the inflow shortages in primary education and the pabo's, we also have shortages in other teacher training courses, for example for the beta subjects? Is there anything the Minister can do for these teacher training courses? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet invests heavily in shrinking regions and small schools, and that is commendable, because home education is also needed in villages, in the region, as long as education is sound, of course. But in general we see that also in small schools with a self-conscious identity, excellent education is given. When will it become clear how the Minister is going to implement this impetus? Does the Minister have a plan for shrinkage in vo? This challenge is already beginning to emerge. Mr. Chairman. Important steps are being taken to ensure appropriate education in the coalition agreement. This cabinet wants to "see how the care of pupils within a limited number of educational institutions with more complex casusism can be financed directly from the resources for care in education time." Can the Minister, together with his colleague from VWS, take this forward? What's it gonna take to pull this off? Can we do this fast? Mr Van Meenen also mentioned it. Furthermore, I see a significant reduction in the amount of funding for adapting teaching materials for visually impaired pupils in 2018, from 4.5 million in 2016 to 3.1 million in the coming years. As it stands now, it even seems as if this has already started in 2017, but that does not fit in with what has been outlined in the 2017 budget. Then the budget of 4.3 million stood still proudly. Why this reduction without announcement or coordination? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the MBO. Last year I launched an action plan for technical and specialist craftsmanship with the title "The Golden Hands of the Netherlands" in the budget treatment of OCW. Back then, I made a plea to talk from now on about theoretical and practical trained people, and not about low and high. I am glad to find Mrs Westerveld on my side. But I also made a plea for the idea that every 12 year old child can ride a bike to a vmbo technique if he wants. I am therefore extremely content with the strong structural impetus for technical VMBO. This country is desperate for professionals. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for a plan for a targeted VMBO fund, which aims to achieve a comprehensive offer and to strengthen the quality of technical education in VMBO. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this money should be put in a separate fund to ensure that the extra investment is what they need to do. MBO schools, VMBO schools, business schools and training companies in a region can then jointly draw up a plan to maintain attractive vocational education in the coming years. I'm considering a motion to strengthen this wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	Let me get this straight. I am also very pleased with the 100 million structuralally. But do I understand that Mr Bruins says that part of it should go to the schools that we already have? That, by the way, is becoming less and less, so I agree with him. But should the money be used to some extent to set up new schools? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	Nothing must, but there can be a huge white spot on the map of the Netherlands, of a province where there is no more technical vmbo. It may be necessary to build a technical vmbo in the capital of such a province. I think that this should be given special attention. I do think it should always be in consultation with local schools and businesses, because we must of course be sure that there is also a need for technical professionals in such a region. But I do not really know a region where there is no need for such people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	We are in complete agreement on the objective. The only question is, do we have to get that out of this pot? If you are really going to set up new schools or set up new establishments, then of course the financing of them is primarily a task for municipalities. They get money from the Municipal Fund for that. Now it looks like you're going to use that $100 million for that purpose. But maybe I didn't get it right after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	I would like to make two comments on this. Firstly, I would like to direct the Minister and ensure that there is a national direction. I want to make sure that we really see a card, that children who are talented, who are good with their hands, can just do technique anywhere in the Netherlands. Secondly, I see that in recent years there has been a tendency for VMBs to offer cheaper training. I refer to administrative and economic training which simply costs less. The pricing isn't right there. It is actually an incentive to go to these training courses, when we know that technicians will always have work in the future. I am very concerned about vmbo economics and administration, about how we will get these children to work. Then I think we should encourage schools to increase the technical side rather than the economic and administrative side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	Several studies show that more than 60% of young people in their daily lives often feel a pressure of performance. More attention is needed for study guidance. This also applies to the good accessibility of student psychologists. Last February, the Bruins/Asante motion was adopted, calling on the government to consult institutions in higher education, student psychologists and student organisations on psychological problems among students and to jointly come up with an action plan to ensure that good and accessible psychological assistance is provided at each institution. I ask the Minister for Higher Education when this action plan will come. The halving of tuition fees is nice to mitigate the effects of the loan system, but it is a generic measure. What about students with disabilities and chronically ill students, who have shown signs of deterioration since the introduction of the loan system? How does the Minister ensure that access to higher education is also guaranteed for them? Last year a motion was adopted by me asking the government, in consultation with the universities, colleges and student organisations, to come up with a programme of additional support and guidance for stackers and included groups such as side-intromers in higher education. We also asked for this to be included in the budgetary research and action plan on equal opportunities. Can the Minister state what has happened in this area? Are the universities fully involved in the equal opportunities programme and are they also entitled to the money available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	My point was about Mr Bruins' previous block on psychological complaints and burn-outs among students. I have mentioned this in my contribution and I have made it a little broader. I was talking about burnouts and psych complaints in high school. I asked the Minister whether we could not conduct an investigation into this and specifically include the relationship with the education system. In the opinion of GroenLinks, we have been very focused in recent years on performance, on efficiency thinking. I wonder how Mr Bruins sees that. Is he also in favour of us doing a broader investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	Well, the fact that the action plan is not yet there can have two reasons. Perhaps a number of parties have been negotiating for a long time to reach a government. It's possible. That went in different phases. It may also be that it is not yet there, because first we need research into possible causes and the situation. If that is necessary in order to achieve a good action plan, then I certainly support the idea that this action plan, which needs to be put in place, should be backed up by research right away. But then I hope that doesn't lead to much delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'm glad to hear that. My point was above all: let's go wider, because the probability gap, but also the performance pressure, are throughout the whole education system. I am glad that Mr Bruins shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm glad we can hang out in this together. I really appreciate that. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna end up with science. After many years we have another cabinet that invests extra in science. Science and innovation splash off the paper when you read the coalition agreement. But oddly enough, we're still a country that invests relatively little in science and technology. That is why it is a good thing that the government agreement states that extra attention is needed for this. Can the Minister confirm to me that we are now finally going to invest extra and more in science and technology in proportion and that we are not going to distribute that money into the research domains in a pound-pound manner? Furthermore, it is good that twice 50 million has been earmarked for research infrastructure. In the letter sent by the Minister on 30 November, this money seems to be intended only for scientific infrastructure. I would like to call on the Minister not to forget the applied research in the TO2 institutes. Reinforcement throughout the knowledge chain is needed. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. You have already noticed that the Christian Union has a strong interest in science and technology. Our country really needs more professionals to be at the forefront of nanotechnology, quantum cryptography, photonics, catalysis, mathematical physics, all disciplines where the Netherlands belongs to the absolute top of the world. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that we do not set up a numerus fixus in training courses for which we need more people. But let us not forget that our country is beautiful and pleasant to live in because we always want to handle our humanities carefully. Mrs Van der Hul also mentioned that. Can I therefore call on the Minister, after my plea for technological innovation for science and technology, to keep an eye on the small humanities, on the philosophical universities? Will the Minister ensure that these philosophical universities have sufficient voice at NWO and also at VSNU? I remember four years ago, from another position, I was allowed to write the first route for the national science agenda, the route Smart industry. My colleagues at NWO, who did the alpha and gamma sciences, got a bit angry, because they said: that is typically such a technical subject! I became so grumpy that I started writing, and the first eight pages of the NWA route Smart Industry are about the importance of alpha and gamma in smart industry, in the industry of the 21st century. They are about social acceptance, about ergonomics, about the ethics of technology, about behavior and about whether you can accept robots in your working environment. Let the alphas and the gammas come from their calimero corner and acknowledge the importance of their own sciences please!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	I am curious to know what the Minister's answer is, because on the one hand, Mr Bruins says that more money must be spent on betas, on technology, but at the same time the alphas and the gammas are all important. Humanist and other forms of higher and university education must all be at the forefront. What exactly is the right answer here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	I have the right answer for Mr Van Meenen. I just finished with the thesis that it's time for the alpha and gamma scientists to also understand the importance of their own sciences for our society. They should be proud of that, too. At the same time, I call for this extra money for science to be invested with emphasis in science and technology, but I hope to do so in a way without people feeling disadvantaged or attacked and without creating contradictions. We just need all the sciences in the right proportions. But if you look at this internationally, the Netherlands have traditionally been investing too little in science and technology for many years, while those are the people we need to keep this country going for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	The discussion between my colleague Mr Van Meenen and my colleague Mr Bruins may once again show that things in the coalition agreement may need a little more work. My question follows on from Mr Van Meenen's. Mr Bruins just said that there should be more money than proportional to technical universities and science. Does this mean that he actually says that humanities and social sciences should be reduced in proportion? Actually, he does say they're not important, when he just said they should be equally important. So I'm a little confused what he wants with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	Let me at least make a very clear distinction here between alpha and gamma sciences. We don't invest a lot of money in alpha sciences. They are relatively small and relatively vulnerable, and everything of value is defenseless. You have to be careful with that. In social sciences, in social and behavioural sciences, we invest relatively much in the international context. If you look at the gamma-related health research, you can see that gamma research is actually two-thirds of our total science. Compared to a country like Germany, we invest relatively six times more in social sciences. I think we should have a turnaround in that and see how we can invest extra in beta and technology this time to keep things going. I say this also in mind the cuts in beta and engineering under Rutte I, when the FES funds fell and the innovation resources were shifted from the EZ innovation programmes to the Wbso.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	I have one more clarification, because I fully agree with Mr Bruins that science is making more money. Of course! It's about the high-tech economy, the future. A laboratory for windmills is more expensive than a trip to the archive. But I'm going too far to say we have to turn things around now. He didn't say that literally, but that's what it all came down to. The gamma sciences get more money in proportion to other countries, so we take money from them and give it to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	No! My plea for science and technology is years old. In all the previous jobs I had, I have called the same thing, and that is what I am calling again: we have too few betas and we need more, because that is good for our country. But I've never advocated a reduction in gamma sciences. I can only make this plea in my current role from this classroom because there will be extra money for science. We're not gonna cut back on any branch of sport. But with the extra money, I advocate more than proportional to beta and technology. Thank you so much for giving me this clarification. Mr President, I shall conclude briefly. The election program of the Christian Union said: "The education you give is decisive for the country you build." And so it is. Education offers opportunities and perspective, and thanks to its freedom of education, the Netherlands has a unique and strong education system worldwide. Everyone has the right to develop their talents, whether you are good at language and math, or with your hands, and whether you have many or few limitations. As one of the four coalition parties of this cabinet, and as a convinced educational party, the Christian Union invests in the future of our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... No, I see that Mrs Westerveld wishes to put another question to Mr Bruins. He's already walking to his place. You really need to send a signal in time, Mrs Westerveld. That doesn't just apply to you, just ask a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	I would have waited because some very important things are still being raised at the end of a speech. It's about the shortage of teachers and the workload. The Christian Union is indeed in the cabinet, but it also has internal party democracy. There's been a conference recently. There was no doubt that Mr Bruins was there. I have received a motion which states that the Christian Union Congress has asked for the investments to be made to reduce the workload. I was wondering what Mr Bruins would do with that motion from the Congress. And is he willing, if I am going to table a motion on that, to support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you for this question. I'm really glad our congresses are being monitored. And we are always open to politicians from other parties who want to be guests at our conferences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	Oh, I thought I'd join.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	I think it is important that we first give the Minister the opportunity to discuss what we are doing with the money we now have in the coalition agreement. There can be no shift. We've signed the coalition agreement as it is now with the four of us. I think it is very important to give the Minister of Commerce space now, also because it is necessary to rebuild confidence. That trust just went away. I've seen the minister on television every day, lecturers screaming for rooms and Nieuwsuur. And she went from one school to another. I want to build trust first, get in conversation together and then see how far we can get before I make any other move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	Fortunately, the minister is from the same party. So I'm very curious if he's seen the motion and how he looks at it. I am sure we will hear that in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	The ruling of the Christian Union Congress was a request to the group. Does the group ignore that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	No, I'm not. We are not just putting aside a motion from a congress, but I think it is very important that we get the timing right. The Minister rules and I control. We are going to make sure that every penny of the 1.9 billion we have spent on the previous cabinet ends up in the right place, because that is what the teachers deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	We are in complete agreement on that. In my view, it sounds like you are putting the verdict of the Congress next to you, because that is a request to the group to bring forward the investments. Let me also ask you the question I asked Mr Van Meenen. At a time when there will be concrete plans to tackle the shortage of teachers and the workload, can you guarantee me that we will look at bringing these investments forward and that we will not get the argument that we have agreed that the money will only be available in one or two years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	I am extremely curious whether the Minister can indeed come up with the plan that he has promised in the media and that there should be a first. I'll wait and see before I make any further statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to the rulers. This is also the first time for me, so we are having this debate together for the first time. It's about sustainability. I'm sure you won't be surprised. Mr. Chairman. In 1992, a group of scientists issued a letter of fire on the deterioration of the environment. 25 years later, 15,000 scientists have done it again. The central theme in 1992 and 2017 is: too few and too small steps are being taken to combat climate change. Mr. Chairman. In the light of the slowness of policy change and the speed of the effects of climate change, it is shocking to see how little urgency seems to exist. We are actually saying this in every budget debate, including in this budget debate. If in 1992 250 scientists express their concerns and in 2017 15,000 do so, if warnings from scientists take advantage of each other, then something seems to be lacking in our collective learning capacity, in politics and in policy. In our opinion, that is the case. In education, it is only slowly starting to understand the importance of sustainability. There is no shortage of initiatives. I will come back to that later. Looking at the courses I have taught at Pieter Nieuwland College in Amsterdam-Oost over the past four years, economics and management and organisation, it was actually shocking to see that sustainability in those subjects is mentioned at the back of the chapter. "And, yes, those are external costs. Sustainability is an expensive thing. We still have that." It's seen as something tricky, something you have to add to it. That actually applies to all subjects. Mr. Chairman. The question: how can we make the necessary transition if students and students are not taught sustainability? Sustainability is, in our opinion, a deep demand for good and evil and therefore part of cultural education. If it was Wilhelmus full of that... after all, we're gonna sing it at the beginning of every school day. But no, nowhere. Well, maybe a little bit with good will in verse 10. I'd like to quote that for you. "Nothing causes me to be merciful anymore; in my repentance; then that one should be impoverished; the coninck's lands goet." That might be the only reference to sustainability, but we're probably just gonna sing verse 1 and 6, so verse 10 won't be on the table. So the Wilhelmus isn't gonna save us in transition. And a good understanding of sustainability in every profession, perhaps. Does the Minister agree with us that the concept of sustainability is part of our cultural education, of how you look at the world, of good and evil, of ethics and morality? Mr. Chairman. An obstacle to sustainable education can be the involvement of business. You don't have to, but you can. Of course, in vocational education, the name says it all, good coordination with industry is very desirable and necessary. Anyway, it's a little short of that, given the imminent shortages. And then the role of the fossil industry, of the nuisance forces, is all the more disturbing. Studies by Changerism and The Correspondent, but also those of fossil-free education and questions from the SP Group and my own group show three things clearly. One: the influence is real. Two: education through a covenant cannot protect itself from that influence. Three: the government is actively sidelined. Does the Minister agree with us that the longer the fossil industry breaks out its subsidised CO and uses the precious technicians of schools for its obsolete fossil business model, the more costly that transition becomes? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Green education has been transferred from EZ. We think that's a good thing. We are going to talk about this in detail. I'm gonna leave it out of this. It is clear to us that there is also a sustainability mission there. Mr. Chairman. The parallel from the economy, which considers sustainability to be something extra, to the educational field, where sustainability of staff also seems to be considered as something extra, is obvious. Sustainability is not only about how we interact with animals and nature, but also about how we interact with each other. And I can see how it's come to be with all that PO in action, VO in action, WW in action, I understand that now. Because I've been there myself. In fact, teachers and non-educational staff are still under the assumption that if they stick to their part of the agreement, i.e. give good education, the government will take care of the other part: good working conditions, sufficient staff and an acceptable workload. Nothing could be further from the truth. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, as an example, we received a delegation of scientific education in action. And I'm sorry, I don't care, but that actually made me a little sad, that made me feel a little sad. There were really top researchers from the Netherlands and abroad, and they had a litany of complaints, no reason to doubt that. They have to do their own administration, they have to look at 288 pieces of work in two weeks, and we are talking about the summit. That's embarrassing, isn't it? What does this cabinet do? Yeah, that's gonna give us another 184 million-dollar target. In primary and secondary education, the sounds are no different. We as government and politics have not kept our end of the bargain. They have good education, we have the money and the conditions. It is right that teachers should not wait for themselves anymore. They're right to call for strikes. It is right that they should take matters into their own hands, after having let technocrats eat the cheese of bread themselves. Education based on standardisation, on control, on competition and on business management models, and especially on the unspoken agreement that more work is taken up by the teachers themselves, is not working. Now what? Too big classes, too much workload, too few teachers, no confidence. Does the Minister agree with us that the aims of lump sum funding have indeed not been met? She probably is, because we're going to evaluate it. I'd still like a reaction. And that is also a question: is it not time for an investigation to be carried out into whether the workload and welfare aspects of teachers can be included as a parameter in the assessment of schools by the inspection? Strangely enough, that is not the case right now. As if the condition of the teacher has no influence on the quality of teaching. I'd like a response from the Minister. In this light we do welcome the plans of D66, which wants to release the 1,040 hours standard and return to 20 hours of lessons per week. Mr. Chairman. Then back to the sustainability initiative in education. More than 40 youth organisations signed the Education Sustainability Convention at the end of 2014. Thanks to an adopted motion of the Animal Party widely shared by D66, ChristenUnion, PvdA, GroenLinks and 50PLUS, the government has come up with a proposal on how sustainability can be integrated into education. To good use, of course, this resulted in a report first. The conclusion of that report was disturbing. "Only a small part of schools and institutions are systematically engaged in sustainability. There is too little connection between education and tomorrow's challenges in the Netherlands." Is the Minister prepared to make tough demands on involvement in new performance agreements in vocational education, taking into account the possibility of a job in one of the crucial transition sectors in curriculum development, in placements and apprenticeships? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	I find it interesting that Mr Van Raan speaks here. Let me be clear: does Mr Van Raan want to say that, as far as he is concerned, vocational education should be more in line with companies of the 21st century rather than those of the 20th century?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yes, I think that is certainly a good starting point in vocational education, especially when you look at the temptations of the fossil industry. If technicians are to be employed there, that is a shame, because we need to make a transition to renewable energy. As a starting point for the discussion, I can therefore certainly recognise myself in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	So you'd want to have sustainability as a jacket all over education. After all, Mr Van Raan is not in favour of an extra course of sustainability, I take it? Does he argue that you take that whole philosophy with you in everything you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you for that question. Insofar as we believe that sustainability is cultural education, it is clear to us that this is the basis for all subjects. You can call that a coat, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	At present, therefore, the curriculum is being revised. It includes space for sustainability in the subjects Dutch, mathematics, English, citizenship, digital literacy and technology. But how is it that the trade economy is not included in this list? Two weeks ago, the British economist Kate Raworth and her doughnut economy were brought to the fore, and that broadcast shows convincingly how important it is for us to change our perception of the economy. Does the Minister agree with us that we should also change that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. From the government the program is SustainableBy the most important instrument at 7 million per year. Within SustainableBy the cooperative Learning for Tomorrow coordinates all the sustainability initiatives that exist and there are a lot of them. There really are hundreds, perhaps thousands of people thematically not structuralally, but with good intentions they are engaged in sustainability. The government coordinates this under the heading Learning for Tomorrow with an amount of €100,000 per year, I believe. Almost nothing. I'd like to receive a response to this. EZ is paying for that, by the way, while we have an education budget of 30 billion. Given the question from the educational world, I would like a response from the Minister to the question of whether this amount could be substantially increased. Mr President, I will conclude. To quote Obama: "We are the first generation to face the consequences of climate change, and the last to do anything about it." We owe it to the planet, our children and our grandchildren to radically change our economy, to remain within the ecological limits that scientists' batteries have identified. There's no better place to start that radical change than the school. "Whoever has the youth has the future" is often said, but in fact old Wibaut was right, who said: "whoever has the future has the youth." The radical change we are presenting is, as far as we are concerned, the future. Sustainability must therefore be given a prominent place in all curricula. Sustainability is, after all, part of cultural education, especially in the field of economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	Are you going to finish? Otherwise, you won't have anything left for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr President, I will conclude. The fact that sustainability is not structural does not mean that thousands of people are not working on it and that the regulatory function should not be strengthened. The coordinating role of the Co-operative Learning for Tomorrow deserves more support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u65	It was really just about sustainability. I understand that the Animal Party wants to use education as some kind of activist tool to get everyone to its own points of view, but sustainability is still a political issue. Then why should we be dealing with sustainability in this penetrating way? You even promote it to a religion. It's about deep existential questions of good and evil. Isn't that a little far?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u66	The good thing is that Mr Beertema himself is already giving the answer. He says: you make it a political issue. It is, it is a political issue. So, in the end, it's about how you deal with each other. So you need to talk about that, even in education. The fact that we disagree on this does not mean that you are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u67	I think that's a wonderful one. I'm sure that's due to Sinterklaas night. It's a political issue. You and I feel differently about that. Why do we have to employ education to spread your vision of all these children, whether they like it or not? That's not what education is for. Education is intended to make critical citizens and to create a stable society where there is cohesion, where there is solidarity and so on. Not to smear your political stickhorses over all those little children's heads. That's not what education is for. That's indoctrination. That is forcing political opinions in a terrible way. The Party of Animals should deal with other things than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u68	It is the Party before the Animals, not the Animals. We don't agree on that. We agree that sustainability is political, but if you think that the organisation of education and the business of education is not a policy, then you still need to learn a lot for such a sensible man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u69	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yeah, finally. I heard another caricature coming by about the Wilhelmus. The CDA introduced it. I've always asked for that, and the CDA has always denied those motions. Anyway, when it came out, it had to happen all of a sudden. Surely you don't believe that if the Wilhelmus is re-introduced in the curriculum of primary schools, they'll be singing the Wilhelmus every morning on the school square? That'll bring it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u72	That was clear. Thank you. I am now going to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am going to talk about something quite different, because the Minister of Education is about more than just education. I am going to talk about experiments on monkeys, which unfortunately are still daily practice in the Netherlands. In the BPRC in Rijswijk, to be exact. That's the biggest monkey research center in Europe. Some speak not of a monkey research center, but of monkey hell. That BPRC belongs to the Minister of OCW. Mr. Chairman. There is no support in the House of Representatives for tests on monkeys and no support for the BPRC, see the motions adopted to bring down the BPRC as soon as possible. But what have the rulers done in the last 15 years? Nothing. There is no question of phasing out. Still there are some 1,300 monkeys in the BPRC and the BPRC receives millions of euros in subsidy per year. In any case, more than EUR 9.5 million per year is reserved for the BPRC until 2020. How is this possible? The BPRC can go forward for years and is stopped by nothing or no one. How is this support compatible with the wish of the Chamber to strive for the phasing-out of the BPRC? The Rathenau Institute conducted an independent study on research with monkeys on behalf of the House of Representatives. Based on interviews with stakeholders from different disciplines, Rathenau concludes that current research with monkeys is ethical, scientific and legally controversial. Stakeholders were shown to support the ambition to reduce monkey research to zero. The Rathenau points out the chance to be a frontrunner again, as happened earlier with the abolition of animal testing for cosmetics and the abolition of experiments with large apes. New scientific insights and the state of the art make it possible to move to better science, better rules and a better understanding of socially relevant questions, where animal-free innovation is the norm. Mr. Chairman. For this, we need a government that sets a course and removes barriers, for example in legislation. These obstacles must therefore be removed. We ask the Minister to pick up the glove and to formulate strategies supported by the Rathenau report that bring monkey research in the Netherlands to zero. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I give the floor to Mr Bishop. He speaks for the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by expressing my joy at the promising cooperation with the government. We hope to be able to do beautiful things together for education. Madam President. The new cabinet makes hopeful tones when it comes to education. In this anniversary year, it not only pays attention to the constitutional freedom of education, but also places the emphasis on freedom for people in education. The cabinet underlined this by immediately publishing in the first week a brochure on the space that schools themselves can use within the existing rules. That is a nice and rightful initiative. But the medal has two sides. If political schools really want to give room, we must also dare to take a critical look at the rules that we strictly adhere to, but which may not be strictly necessary. I therefore hope that the cabinet will look favourably at proposals to offer space. I'll get back to you on that. In my contribution, I would like to address five issues. I start with small schools and I will then go into tests, green education and finance. Finally, I would like to make a comment on higher education. Madam President. First of all, the small schools. The SGP welcomes the government's commitment to the financial position of small schools, but in addition to the financial tax, there is an administrative tax. Many small schools are maintained by small boards, often also by volunteers. This is extremely valuable, and I would like to underline this from our group. It is a guarantee that our education, which is anchored in society, also keeps a firm anchor in our society. However, the SGP gets the signal from these boards, especially from small schools, that they take a breath to be able to comply with all the rules, while these rules for small schools and administrations sometimes make no sense at all. It is expected that many additional mergers will occur in the coming years if the public authorities do nothing about reducing administrative burdens. This would be particularly unfortunate for parents and students who are often very satisfied with their small school. That is why the SGP has drawn up a plan to safeguard the future of small schools. Whether it's about privacy or all kinds of paperwork, whether it's about remaining or generating renewable energy, there are opportunities in all kinds of areas to relieve administrative pressure. We have called our plan "the Reddplan small schools." I appreciate offering this to the Minister, or even the ministers, because it is good to have a broad understanding of this. I also appreciate the fact that colleagues are being handed over a copy. With your permission, Madam President, I am happy to hand that over to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u76	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u77	The Reddplan small schools is not a plea for letting it all go. No, it is a plea to organise effective supervision and effective accountability and therefore to ask for tailor-made school work. This depends on the size of schools and the type of schools. As far as we are concerned, there are many possibilities for this. I would like to receive a written response from the Minister to the plan. I would recommend that we also discuss this with the governing bodies. The second point, Mr President, is the tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u78	Before you go any further, Mr. Bishop, a question from Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u79	I think it is right that we take note of this plan. At the moment of this debate, I would like to give Mr Bishop the opportunity, through my interruption, to mention a few measures. Apparently, he does not have enough time in his own speaking time. I'm just doing that through this interruption. My question is therefore whether you can mention two or three measures contained in this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u80	Sure. We received a signal about a possible European obligation that each school or institution should appoint a privacy officer. This can be a very good measure for large institutions, but when it comes to a village school where in principle all the children of the village go, where everyone knows everyone, it is a question of whether an obligation for such a school to appoint a privacy officer is wise. We therefore call for a reflection on this. Is it really necessary for the resting mothers at such a small school where everyone knows everyone, to ask for an explanation of behavior with all the red tape? Various measures can be taken to make it easier for such a school to stay on its feet. But there's another story. If you look at the checklist that auditors use for the management report, for example, those are pages long lists. Those administrative reports apply to higher education and larger institutions almost one-on-one as for smaller institutions; a board that manages 100 schools or a one-pitter, all the same. Well, you can differentiate in that in a very sensible way so that the smaller governments remain able to provide their input and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u81	A quick question. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u82	I must say that I scanned it for a moment, because that was in the time given to me it was maximum achievable. In my view, we find each other a long way to go when it comes to reducing the burden of small schools as much as possible, especially in the more scenic areas. One measure struck me: the vog for resting mothers. I seriously wonder whether it matters whether a school is in a small village or a larger city and whether it would be wise not to have the parents in a small village apply for a bird's-eye. Could you perhaps explain why you have reached that point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u83	The background to this part of our package is that in a small village all parents know each other; they meet at the fence when they come for the children. So I imagine you're asking for such a measure for a school where hundreds of students and parents don't know each other, but you can seriously ask yourself if that burden is needed in a village community. That is indeed only a small part of the whole, but we thought it wise to add it to the list for the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u84	I dare to doubt this. I myself come from a rather clear village. We both know the stories that in a small village community, even where everyone knows each other, it is certainly not a guarantee of success if your parents ask you to do leftovers without an explanation of the behavior. Do you not think that you might be something that is perhaps not the best word of faith in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u85	You know my world well enough to know that we confess that man is inclined to all evil. In this sense, the roles should be reversed and I should be in favour of an explanation of behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u86	Then we're here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u87	In my view, however, the administrative burden does not outweigh the added value. That is actually the point of reference. If our other proposals are accepted and this proposal is to fall, I can be at peace with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna go to the test. The way teachers test and the number of tests they reduce are directly affected by the educational and didactic environment and by the freedom of schools. A unilateral way of testing is also bad for the development of pupils. The SGP is concerned about the alternative final tests. Even before the results of the evaluation are known, these tests are pressed into a mould by including so-called "anchor statements." In 2018 these are even tasks of the Cito. The fact that we in the Chamber have advocated alternative final tests was precisely to prevent such a mould from arising. This therefore goes directly against the original intention of the differentiated final tests. According to the SGP, comparability does not require standardised tasks but better frameworks in the Key Decision. I ask the Minister to explore this direction further. The way in which the final test is taken leads to a narrowing of the eyes in education. In the final key only the easier keyable parts count, such as reading skills. However, with the Law reference levels Dutch language and arithmetic we have given the signal that all parts are important, for example also writing skills. However, not all parts are mandatory according to the Keypad, so the law is still not properly implemented. That is a bad thing in itself. I would like the Minister to provide me with a timetable for actions that reflect the full breadth of language and arithmetic education, in a more versatile way than simply testing with multiple choice questions and in a way that prevents everything from being squeezed by that one mold. These tests are not primarily intended for the comparability and performance of schools, but for determining the level of pupils, helping them to make a good choice for further education. That's two very different things. The SGP is also particularly interested in the second focus of the education section of the government agreement, which states that the legal basis for a mandatory diagnostic test is deleted. I think I remember another proposal for an own-initiative report on this subject. Is there anything the Minister can tell us about the relationship between the two? The SGP notes that the pressure on schools is growing to include additional tests in the apprenticeship follow-up system. However, the legislator has deliberately stated that schools have the freedom to determine when and how many tests they take. Only the final test is clearly required by law, but in addition, schools are free to limit themselves to their own tests. There is no legal standard for the number of standardized tests. Does the Minister recognise that the lack of clarity of the law can put schools on the wrong track? What possibilities does the Minister see for clarifying schools in this respect? I come to the third cup: green education. The government agreement contains the good intention to finance green education in the same way as regular education, i.e. per participant. This is now included in the budget for education. However, it turns out that the cabinet does not want to achieve equal treatment until 1 January 2019. This means that green education is left with financial disadvantages for another year. I understand that a precise calculation of how that should be aligned is not yet possible. However, can this cabinet promise that a solution will be found for 2018, with retroactive effect if necessary from 01-01-2018? The fourth cup: finance. The SGP notes that financial rules sometimes frustrate content. Let me give you four examples. The appropriate education. Students earn their own place in mainstream education as much as possible. I very much agree with that. However, this is not due to the financing of housing by municipalities. For a student who goes to special education, more square meters are rightly counted than for a pupil who goes to regular education. However, that higher standard does not apply if a regular school is going to accommodate this student in a special facility. Will the Minister discuss this issue with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, and the sector councils in order to clarify the rules? Then the point of bespoke reward. The function mix has contributed to higher pay scales in primary education, but in the meantime that mix will also work as a straitjacket. The SGP would like the proposed revision of working conditions to include more tailor-made work in the function mix. Does the Minister share that commitment? The next item is teacher shortages and side influx. The cabinet also aims to attract siders to fight the teacher shortage, but the SGP gets signals that applications for subsidies are rejected because the ceiling would have been reached. That would be very strange, because then the problem will never come to a solution. How does the Cabinet prevent us from leaving unnecessary intruders outside when we need them badly? Finally, under the heading "finance": the Participation Fund. It has recently become known that the Participation Fund is going to increase the contributions. At the financial crunch of schools this is an unpleasant surprise. Would the Minister consider whether it is possible to make the connection to this fund voluntary, so that schools can make their own choice? Madam President. Finally, the fifth heading: higher education. The government states that there will be specializations in the pabo for the young and the old child. We are not entirely clear on what this means. Does this mean that existing specialisations will be extended or that there will be more self-employed training for teachers such as pre-school education? I'd like some clarification. My final agreement concerns Dutch in education. The scientific evidence builds up that we allow English too little thought, even in the bachelor's degree. Sorry about that English word! With the current law, institutions can take a step too easily. The final question is therefore: is it the intention of the cabinet to enforce the law where necessary and thus to prevent the ensnaring of Dutch education where possible? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. Realizing dreams, that's what our education is all about. Every kid has dreams. One dreams of becoming a doctor and making needy people healthy again. The other one dreams of a future in the fire department to save lives. And yet another dream is to become a teacher to help others fulfill their dreams. We have 3 million young people in our country. So we also have 3 million dreams. What DENK is committed to is that all these 3 million dreams have the same chance of being fulfilled. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. Too many dreams of a lot of young people are being devastated by the daily reality in our education system. Young people receive lower school advice because their parents happen to be less educated. Young people do less well at school because their parents are not able to support them financially. Young people are less likely to move on to higher education because they come from a less prosperous nest. Young people are more likely to fall out of their education because they have a certain origin. Or young people do not dare to take the step to study because they have to take on a debt of tens of thousands of euros. Mr. Chairman. There seems to be almost a deadly cocktail of inequality of opportunity in education, which means that not every young person has the same chance to live up to his or her dreams. DENK will therefore, first and foremost, keep the new government focused on stopping this deadly cocktail of inequality of opportunity, so that every youngster's dream can be realized. That starts with our teachers. They are the people who make the greatest effort to achieve those dreams. In order to reduce inequality of opportunity, they need to be able to give pupils personal attention. But now they have too little support, they come through red tape and earn too little money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u92	I would like to ask Mr Kuzu if it is really true that it starts with teachers. It starts a lot sooner, doesn't it? It starts with the responsibility of parents, doesn't it? All these parents of non-Dutch origin should have the third generation of Dutch at home, watch Dutch television, take away those dishes, immerse yourself in Dutch culture, language and so on. What I said: learning Dutch songs, Dutch bedtime stories and so on. Why do they all wait for that and think education will solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u93	This is typical PVV: a world view that assumes that the reality that is between the ears of a number of PVV people does justice to what is happening in society. I do not recognize at all what Mr Bertema says. There are plenty of people with a migrant background who speak Dutch at home. I can give an example of my own situation. We've been reading for years before bedtime. Those were Dutch books, but we also did so in Turkish. We did that because we wanted our children to be raised bilingually. I can tell you they do an excellent job at school. They both speak fine Dutch. That doesn't just apply to me. You just spoke of "all," but that is far from the case. This happens to a lot of people. I am therefore pleased that this is a compliment to the coalition parties that more money is being made available for early school education for parents who cannot do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u94	Fortunately, there are a lot of opportunities for all those people who do realize that responsibility lies with them. Of course I'm thrilled about that. But the great masses don't realize that. That's why we set up the vve: to eliminate the language disadvantages. There are hundreds of thousands of children, especially in the big cities, who don't speak a word of Dutch, because they "learn it at school."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u95	This is a story from 20 years ago. Twenty years ago, I would say to Mr Beertema that he has a point. But day-to-day reality is different. You should check the big cities and see who's in front of the classroom. Then we are not just talking about the parents, but about people who are in front of the classroom who are dealing with all the children in the Netherlands, and not just with a certain group of children, but with all the children in the Netherlands. Of that, diversity is enormous. That's good for me. That is what we should actually go through to all kinds of other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u96	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u97	Not so long ago I read an interview in De Telegraaf with some star footballer of Ajax of Moroccan descent. I don't know his name so soon. He had a wonderful story about how his children are raised bilingually. The question of Dutch was asked. "You don't have to, they learn that in school." That's the situation. It's common in those circles. It's reality. It has nothing to do with the PVV. That is the tough reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u98	Yes, it has to do with that. The PVV does it again: it sets an example and projects it all over the Netherlands, all over Europe and around the world. But that does not do justice to reality at all. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the teachers. They deserve our support because they get it too little. Only 40% of teachers feel that their profession is appreciated by society. That has everything to do with "Let us be clear about the development of wages." In twenty years the government has cut the salaries of education and government 30 times with the zero line. A primary school teacher now earns only 70% of the average salary of a person with the same training in the market sector. The cabinet does indeed free 270 million to improve teachers' salaries in primary education, but in practice this amounts to crumbs, crumbs that improve 3%. That doesn't make up for the 30% gap. That doesn't make up for all these years on the zero line. That doesn't make up for the frustration of teachers. It's only right they're gonna strike. The worst thing is that all the money that comes in for education is partly destroyed, because this cabinet is simply going through a budget cut of 183 million in education. Mr. Chairman. How unimaginable is it that we are cutting down 183 million on education, while foreign shareholders are being pampered by this government at 1.4 billion? How unfair is it that our teachers get crumbs, while one out of five top health officials still deserves more than a minister? How indigestible is it that this government does not want to further restrict top incomes in the public sector, while teachers are being shipped off with far too low tips? I don't understand. A lot of people don't understand. I hope the Minister can explain it to us tomorrow. In parallel with the wage increase, this cabinet wants to reduce the other working conditions. A gift is put in one bag, while the other bag is emptied. Why does the Cabinet opt for this pre-hear-what approach? Is there going to be money for wage increases independent of collective bargaining? What stick does this minister have behind the door if the negotiations between the social partners do not lead to the full wage increase? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the workload. DENK welcomes the 450 million for the reduction of workload in primary education, but how sure is it that the money will also be used for this, that the 6,300 puff classes with more than 30 pupils are actually getting smaller? Will there really be enough janitors and support staff? There is a chance that the resources will not end up where they are needed in the hope of the lumpsum. Does the Minister share this concern? What class size and support targets does the cabinet have? Will the education inspection monitor improvements? Shouldn't we impose maximum class size? Shouldn't we pass on target payments in the event of defects instead of continuing to throw money on the lump sum? Especially since according to the General Education Association, the financial reserves of primary schools increased by 700 million since 2012. Money in education does not end up where it should end up. The question is: what is the Minister going to do about this? Mr. Chairman. Making dreams happen also means getting the chance to prove yourself at a higher level in education. But even for this, young people still do not get all the opportunities. Young people with higher education parents receive higher school advice with a comparable test result than young people with lower education parents. Relatively few school advices are still being adjusted if the test result indicates that the student can cope with a higher level. Only 25% get a higher opinion. DENK therefore welcomes the government's intention to take the final test earlier than the school advice, so that the teacher has more tools for advising, but we wonder if this is going to solve the problem. In some cases, as the OECD states, children from lower-educated parents receive lower advice due to unconscious prejudices of the teacher. This is also true of students with a migration background. DENK would therefore like the government to pursue a more active policy of raising teachers' awareness of the role of prejudice in school advice and to promote a right to update the advice if parents so wish. Is the government prepared to do this? There are still 23 school administrators who did not give at least 100 pupils an update of the advice while these students were eligible for it. Does the Minister agree with me that talking to these boards for a year now, and having the inspection again explaining the law, is too rigid? Should the Minister no longer show his teeth and threaten these administrations with sanctions or official warnings? Why does the Minister come back to his announcement to tighten up the law on the issue of advisory updates? When is the picture of updating opinions positive enough not to tighten up the law? If 60% of opinions are not revised or reconsidered? If 50% is not reconsidered or adjusted? Wouldn't it be a good thing, by definition, to make the law clearer about reviews and adjustments? Mr. Chairman. Many young people dream of taking a study at higher education. I will then automatically end up with the debt system, a system introduced by politicians who have done endlessly about their studies without having to borrow. Alexander Pechtold of D66, Mark Rutte of the VVD and Sybrand Buma of the CDA all did seven years about their studies, but they do not grant the present generation of students this luxury. Due to their debt system, students now need to borrow tens of thousands of euros from higher education. Mr. Chairman. We at DENK think it is hypocritical that politicians do not allow the current young people whom they themselves have made generous use of. DENK thinks it is antisocial that young people now have to pay to develop themselves. DENK finds it a disgrace that the debt system is disguised as a way of organizing investment in education, while the extra money only serves to cope with hard cuts from the past. DENK also hates that the loan system destroys dreams of young people if they do not dare to study because they then have to borrow tens of thousands of euros. Mr. Chairman. These are messed up. As a blow to the head, the cabinet is trying to make up for this mess of the debt system with a straight-up pacific measure. The cabinet says: students, don't worry about the debt system, because tuition fees go down by 50% in the first year. Fantastic, students think, but what the cabinet doesn't tell us is that at the same time the interest rate on student loans is increased. As a result, students have to pay more for their loans. So who's gonna solve half the tuition fee? By students themselves! That's not an improvement. That's a cigar from your own box. That's a sausage they have to pay for themselves. That's giving the students a candy in one hand while the other hand is being robbed. Mr. Chairman. Especially the CDA and the Christian Union may blame themselves for this. They have failed to honour their commitment to abolish the loan system. I can still hear Mr Rog say it in the halls during election debates: with our party in a future coalition, the loan system will be destroyed. Unfortunately, none of this has happened after the elections. DENK in any case opts for a return of the basic exchange, which eliminates the debt system. Before the elections, but also after the elections. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Young people with disabilities or behavioural problems also have dreams. Through special education, we try to do everything we can so that these young people with support can live up to their dreams. In order to ensure that children perform as well as possible in special education, it is important that their parents are properly taken into account in the consideration and decision to have their child go to special education. And this isn't always going well. Sometimes parents or parents are only confronted with this profound change in the ten-minute conversation at the end of the year. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he recognizes these signals and what he is going to do about bringing parents with him better and preparing for their child's transition to appropriate education. Mr President, I began by saying that we have 3 million young people in the Netherlands and 3 million dreams. I hope for constructive cooperation with these ministers to reduce the gap in opportunities in education so far that development, emancipation and development are really in the reach of every young person in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors will respond tomorrow on behalf of the government.
