ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs, once again. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren. The speaking time is set at six minutes per group, but that does not mean that you need to use it in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. While we are standing here in Groningen, a great torch parade is taking place. It is a disgrace to our democracy that five years after the great earthquake at Huizingen Groningers still cannot live and work safely while gas extraction continues and is also established in the Energy Agenda for the next five years. In the Energy Agenda we read that the cabinet does not want gas from the built environment until 2050. The direction is good, namely gas from the built environment, but I would like to know from the Minister why this should not be the case until 2050. This debate with the Minister is about the Energy Agenda, but is actually a kind of look back at the last four years and a look forward to the future. Then I notice two big problems, actually betting on two horses all the time. On the one hand, "everything to fossil," yet leave room for shale gas extraction, the small field policy, the gas extraction that goes on and it takes far too slow gas from the built environment. On the other hand, this minister is regularly praised by GroenLinks for the use of clean energy. This movement has been deployed but the results are not yet at the level requested by the Paris Climate Treaty. So with those two horses, we'll never get the population. There are many places where the Minister talks about the fact that there will be protests against this and then against it. The position of GroenLinks has been and remains for the past four years: if you want to bring the population with you, you have to have one clear direction towards the future, and that future becomes renewable energy. I had therefore hoped and expected that this Energy Agenda would provide a clearer path with intermediate targets that would indicate how we can get rid of fossil energy. The IPCC has once mapped out that if all official government plans on energy were implemented, we wouldn't have a climate problem right now. So you only have something long-term official intention, is nice, but then it has to be implemented as well. And that brings me to the second problem in cooperation with this minister, who was pleasant and effective on a number of points, and that concerns the list of unexecuted motions. I find that rather problematic. I would like to mention a few of them and, depending on the Minister's reply, I shall be tabling a motion in this area: the coal-fired power stations, the biomass annex, the separation of Delta, the gas connection and electric transport. There's a whole list. I have on my desk a folder full of adopted motions and also the piece on the energy field. We have had many debates. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on how he sees this cooperation. Around the Mining Act, it was not exactly a textbook example, in my opinion. As I said, the long-term vision is good: a sustainable energy supply by 2050, that is what everyone wants. But how are we going to get there step by step, so that businesses and the population too know: we are going to get rid of that gas, we are going to move towards clean energy, the living environment and mobility are going to change?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mrs Van Tongeren mentions a number of unimplemented motions. When has she reached the point that has been enough? Of course, you can always let this get to you and complain about it, but next time it happens again. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u4	The SP has announced its intention to come forward with a motion of censure. GroenLinks thinks this is a very heavy drug. I also wonder if this is perhaps a means of getting the people of Drenthe and part of Groningen behind the SP in campaign time. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there must really be a very serious mistake on the part of the Minister, on which you act immediately if it is to be worthy of a motion of censure. We are dealing here with unexecuted motions. The agreement between the Chamber and the Minister is that a minister can dismiss motions. An amendment can't do that, but a motion can. What motion does the SP then consider that there should be a motion of censure? At the fourth time, at the fifth time, at the sixth time, at the seventh time? What's the scale like?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u5	That is precisely what I am asking Mrs Van Tongeren. I think this is a rather unfriendly start; I am not used to that from Mrs Van Tongeren. As she knows, the SP has been trying for years to make the transition to renewable energy take place in the North of the Netherlands, with the people and not in spite of the people. Mrs Van Tongeren suggests that it would be a SP campaign to do this now. She knows as well as I do that I'm not that good. She hasn't answered my question yet. Implicitly, her reaction shows that she wants to allow unexecuted motions to be carried out infinitely unexecuted. She sometimes objects to it, but there has to be a time when she says that her role as a representative of the people has been finally undermined?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u6	There are several differences between the SP and GroenLinks. GroenLinks doesn't like to keep people an empty shell. You sign a climate treaty, you agree to goals per province for wind on land and wind at sea and you say we have to keep our European commitments. Then you can't take those appointments off the table immediately if there's resistance from the people. That really is a big difference between the SP and GroenLinks. Mr Smaling asked when you would table a motion of censure. Look at the times we have supported such a motion. We may be doing that a little less easy than the SP. We think it's a very heavy weapon. If you use it too often, you run it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u7	I'm gonna keep going on this subject. Why did the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance vote in favour of the motion to reflect? What was the purpose of the Green Left Group with that? It now seems as if GroenLinks simply accepts what the minister wrote, namely: I can't do anything with it and that was it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u8	GroenLinks then gave an explanation of vote, which Mrs Mulder undoubtedly remembers. It said that GroenLinks wanted to support a moment of Christmas reflection in this case. We've all been in the area. We've checked the line settings. I think we have all consulted with the people who are going to build the wind farm to find out if there was another possibility of relocation. People who are granted a licence can also decide to produce a little less than the licence allows. We agreed to that. We made it very clear that for us it did not mean that the agreements with the provinces were over wind or that the agreements on wind energy per province could simply be replaced by agreements on solar energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u9	But how does GroenLinks then see the space given to Drenthe, specifically to the two municipalities where the windmills should be? Otherwise it seems a bit cheap electoral rhetoric when you say: we look soon for Christmas, but we don't really give room. I therefore ask again why GroenLinks voted in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u10	In the explanation of vote, we said that we attach great importance to the Paris Convention on Climate Change. I thought the CDA did, too. The same answer I have just given to the SP Group also applies to Mrs Mulder. On the one hand, you cannot say that there is an enormous urgency in the climate and that clean energy needs to get there much faster, giving this minister upside down that he is not doing it fast enough, while on the other hand telling the people that nothing is going to change in her environment. There's gonna be a lot more that's gonna change. If we have to get rid of gas, we will have to explain to many municipalities, towns and villages that this is really going to happen. Not all people will not like it if the transport is changing and if there is a transition to more electric transport or more public transport. Not everyone's gonna like it when the speed goes down. So we have a lot of explaining to do. I think you should say at some point: there may be something else, but wind on land continues in all provinces in the Netherlands, as well as wind at sea. Mr. Chairman. I have now discussed the section on the Paris Convention on Climate Change, but I still have a question for the Minister. We found finance at the time, with a majority of the Chamber, for measuring how much CO is emitted in the Netherlands. Is it structuralally regulated that we continue to measure so-called small particles, aerosols, and greenhouse gas emissions? Or are the finances not sufficient? GroenLinks thinks it is a big missed opportunity for the agenda to focus only on CO reduction. In order to reduce COte, a change is needed in the infrastructure, in taxes and in the type of energy. If you want to give both citizens and businesses long-term security, then you need to clarify those three areas. According to GroenLinks, it doesn't work if you just focus on CO. I would like to point out one of the motions that has not been tabled. We had tabled this motion together with the Christian Union. The goal of renewable energy must in any case be put back on the table. The ETS in Europe, which is also included in the agenda, is basically good, but it is not working. Something that is basically good but doesn't work, you have to replace it or you have to make it work fairly quickly. The cabinet indicates that it does not even help with a slightly higher CO price. What approach will the Minister take? Is there still a choice of CO-tax? Or should there be a much higher price soon? Or should many more of these rights be removed from the system very quickly? I see my time is running out. I come to the field of renewable energy. The chairman of the Energy Agreement Committee says: wouldn't it be an idea for the formation to explore the possibilities for the realization of an additional wind farm at sea? Is the cabinet going to follow up on this? There is another question that we have frequently asked: what is the Minister going to do about super-statutory demands which in other provinces prevent wind from spreading on land? That question is about wind on land, but it could also apply to other forms of energy. The closure of coal plants would cost only €14 per household per year. That's what the Minister says. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this amount is a slap compared to the avoided costs for climate and health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u11	Would you like to conclude, Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u12	According to opinion polls, this is what Dutch people want. Why is it not in the Energy Agenda that we are actually closing down all the coal plants? Unfortunately, I am at the end of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber we can say a hundred times that more solar panels are needed on houses, but if no entrepreneur or household in the Netherlands participates, it does not happen. That is why the Energy Agreement has been concluded. More than 40 social partners, government and politics work together to make them more sustainable. In doing so, this cabinet is taking important steps, more than Cabinets for this. This Minister is committed to achieving the agreed goals. There is indeed opposition, but fortunately there is also a very large group of Dutch people who think it is quite normal that we make our energy supply more sustainable. These Dutch people now want a nice life and a sustainable future. With the policy of this cabinet, the greenest cabinet ever, that's possible. Our future energy supply must be affordable, reliable and clean. That's easier said than done. The left-wing majority in this Chamber wants the coal power stations to shut down immediately. That sounds very sympathetic, but the yield and CO reduction are minimal. It would throw away 4,000 jobs. 4,000 families will be in the cold; 4,000 people who would like to be retrained, but know that this will take time. Time they don't get with a left-wing radical stroke of pens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u14	If Mr Bosman has read the motion correctly, he knows that a request has been made in that motion for consultation with the sector in order to arrive at a closure path. Then he knows that there is absolutely no mention in it of the closure of these coal power stations tomorrow. Moreover, employment is, of course, part of every deal you make, and there is a lot of employment in renewable energy. Where does Mr Bosman get the idea that it would be about tomorrow or about throwing away jobs? It seems to me rather that the VVD does not intend to invest extra in renewable energy, because that is not the case in the plans of the parties who supported this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u15	I don't quite understand that last part, but okay, that can happen. The ambition to shut down coal power stations is a very large one. Of course, there's a bit of a shuffling about time paths, but it has to be done in the short term. I think the Labour Party says: within ten years, preferably much sooner. Then I say, that's business, if you don't think about it... We're talking about cost. An amount of €14 was just mentioned, but then I miss another amount. We all got a letter from the FNV, I think. It has an amount of 800 million. What do we do to retrain, train and provide income for these people? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u16	I am pleased with these nuances, because from 'tomorrow they have to close' it already goes to 'a ten-year closure path'. In any case, the learning process is fast with the VVD. Let us hope that the learning process is also moving quickly on other points. The VVD has supported the ratification of the Paris Agreement here in the Lower House. This means that the VVD must also have an answer to the question of how the objectives of the Paris Agreement will be achieved. That means doing more than we agreed in the energy agreement. The closure of coal plants is one of the cheapest measures. Mr Bosman knows very well that you can simply buy up the rights from the ETS, and that this does not create a tailor-made effect. What more expensive measures will the VVD take to achieve the objectives of Paris if it is so mordicus against the closure of coal power stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u17	As regards pricing, the cost per tonne avoided co, biomass co-incineration is cheaper than closing coal plants. If you say "I want to do it more efficiently," you better co-incinerate biomass than close the coal plant. I think that's how you can fill in the agreements we've made. These are agreements within the energy agreement and agreements with many partners, which not only lead to renewable energy within the coal industry, but also to renewable wind energy. It's all been agreed upon. That is why we now see this sustainability coming very quickly. I do not understand why parties are basing so hard on these coal power plants, while we can also achieve sustainable energy supply with biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u18	Third interruptions only if they are very short and powerful, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u19	I do not understand very well why the VVD would want to burn billions in structuralally in coal-fired power stations. That is what you have to do structuralally instead of buying out once and investing the rest in jobs in the Netherlands. Perhaps Mr Bosman can explain that to me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u20	It also has a purpose, namely CO reduction. I think we are all bound by that. That is why I say that renewable energy is also an objective. Mrs Mulder has just mentioned three different objectives. Sometimes they get in the way of each other. If we have a sustainability objective, we will fill it out. According to all theoretical definitions, biomass is simply part of renewable energy. We're just gonna use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u21	I recently saw in an investigation that the supporters of the VVD are against wasting EUR 3 billion for the wood chipping subsidies that go to coal plants. How does Mr Bosman feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u22	That's always interesting: what do grassroots think? Then I can bring up the Labour Party. The supporters of the VVD also want the energy supply to be reliable, sustainable and clean and that combinations are possible. We politicians know that at present we need all kinds of energy and that we need to work on it. For example, we also need to look at CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage; the capture of CO emissions. We must have the ambition to make energy supply, but also industry, more sustainable and thus reduce CO emissions. These are all things that we simply need. Mr Vos knows that, too. Then you can say "we don't want to," but it has to be. The same applies to windmills, whether at sea or on land. These are ambitions that we are expressing. I believe that they are included in the Paris Agreement; we simply have to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u23	I know Mr Bosman as a rational man. If we want to save CO, we will close those coal plants. They won't release any more CO. If you want to work cost-effectively I know the VVD as a party that looks after the Dutch taxpayer's money and you choose the cheapest technology. At the moment, this wood chipping subsidy is twice as expensive as placing windmills at sea. Why does Mr Bosman stick to buying wood chips and throwing them into coal-fired power stations? I can't reach it with my hat, not with my social democratic hat, but also with his liberal hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u24	Then I'll give you a hand. You know the numbers. If you close coal power stations in the short term, you will see that a shift of CO is created. That reduction is very limited. The further you move it over time, the more you can pull up together, the greater the CO savings. You could say I'm closing down the coal power stations in the short term. That's unwise. You can run them, but you can use biomass to reduce those CO emissions. That is a very sensible means. These are agreements we have made with all of us within Europe. We're crazy if we don't. You can shut down power stations, but if the CO reduction is limited to the amount of money we put in it, I think that's very unwise. I am also looking at the Labour Party and all those people who have jobs in that industry. According to the FNV, we need 800 million more. I am very curious to see what the Labour Party is going to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u25	3 billion minus 800 million, how much is that, Mr Bosman? That's what you're gonna have in your own pocket to do other business. Then we can just help all those people get a new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u26	And then we have no CO savings. So we spent money without achieving a CO saving. I find that very special. We'll just shift that to Germany or Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u27	The VVD says with some regularity that it's an investment that runs away. If you shut down those coal power stations, it would not be fair to the entrepreneurs who set them up. But now the VVD is asking the taxpayer, structurally over the entire 40 years of the coal power plant, to add 3 billion each time to devoid of biomass. Eventually these coal plants are just as clean as gas plants, which are still in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u28	What's your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u29	Those gas plants also have investment money. There are entrepreneurs in that too. Why choose the VVD structurally for an expensive solution without any advantage for a permanent change to clean energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u30	Renewal takes time. With wind at sea and wind on land, it's the same. That was also very expensive at first, but is getting cheaper and cheaper. The speed at which wind becomes cheaper at sea has to do with mass. The more mass, the cheaper it gets. We have imposed on ourselves the cost of biomass. I think we are the most certified user of biomass. We have made very strict demands on this. Then it's no wonder it's getting more and more expensive. Ten years ago, the cabinet at the time, in full wisdom, took a decision with its knowledge of the future of today. You have to deal with that carefully. If we as a government say "close it" at random every time, then a next government can say: maybe we should stop with that wind. I don't want a dazzle policy. We shouldn't be dazzling. The more we waver, the more insecure it becomes and the more difficult it becomes for parties to invest. There's not gonna be another company saying, "I'm gonna put a few billion in this" if a next cabinet can do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u31	The objective according to Paris and the Energy Agenda is: fully renewable energy by 2050. We all agree on that. So you shouldn't have something in which, as soon as it doesn't get that 3 billion subsidy, cheap coal will be used again. Then you need a tax transition and an infrastructure transition. A windmill will never generate dirty fossil energy. Once it's there, it's clean energy. Why structurally put so much tax money into something that, when the government doesn't put the money in, is immediately the dirtiest kind of energy we know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u32	We have a number of ambitions set out in objectives. We all agreed on this: 14% and 16% in 2023. We want to achieve this with various components, including biomass. I support Mrs Van Tongeren. The VVD thinks that's important, too. We are simply going to achieve these objectives, but we do need everything we can to achieve them. If biomass, as we have agreed within Europe, is a form of renewable energy, then we must use it. Then Mrs Van Tongeren can say: over time the subsidy will end, but if we use enough and if more plants and perhaps more plants are to be built on biomass in Germany, then the price will go down. That's what we see when we're windy at sea. That price will also fall if we are all going to use smart technology. If we add CO2 capture to that, we will achieve negative CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u33	In conclusion, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u34	I'm looking at the clock. It's gonna be a really long night, we all see that coming. I do not want to kill the debate, but if you can limit it to a two-way interruption, please. If there is no other way, I will allow a third interruption here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u35	In conclusion, I expect the VVD to show in its accounts that biomass also achieves its goals and that this is the most advantageous solution for the citizen. I'm very curious about the pass-through of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u36	Fine. Perhaps the most important thing is still a stable government policy on sustainability. Those aren't even my own words, they're Diederik Samsom's. All parties in society also say it, from Greenpeace to Shell: keep policy stable over the coming years. This gives clarity to companies, which can adapt their investments to that, and that also gives rise to work. As my former colleague from the VVD, Mrs Ineke Dentjé of the FME says: green is money, but you have to do it. This also gives us the opportunity to implement policies, as we can now see in practice: an energy agreement with broad support and a cabinet that simply complies with the agreements. No matter how painful the measures may be, we must continue to make them more sustainable. I am surprised that left-wing parties want a climate law to lay down the agreements, but sometimes they do not want to comply with the agreements contained in the energy agreement. They want a climate law that is even more ambitious than the energy agreement. It is precisely these parties that should go through harder, because the transition needs to be speeded up. The momentum is there, thanks to this cabinet, but we have to move on now. The municipalities have an important task in the transition, says the VVD. The direction must be with the municipalities. Does the Minister agree with me? I also appeal to the municipalities. They need to make the smart choices and, together with the residents and entrepreneurs in the municipality, design the future for all the sustainable ambitions they themselves have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u37	Is that perhaps the reason why the VVD supported a motion from colleagues Smaling and Jan Vos just before Christmas to come to a period of reflection in the Veenkoloniën, because we clearly see that it did not go well, as an exception confirming the rule? Then what does the VVD ultimately want with that motion? The Minister has indicated that he is rejecting this motion and no longer doing anything with it, but what does the VVD want for the Veenkoloniën?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u38	First of all, the Minister did not reject that motion. He has given some thought to this and also mentioned what the possibilities were. We supported this motion and I explained it to people who asked me about it. We have a coalition partner who asked us to do so, and we have given them the opportunity to table a motion on this matter and to have it supported. I said that space is there, but we're finally stuck in a legal story. Authorisations have been granted, there is an administrative consultation underneath, agreements have been made with all kinds of different parties. I have to be very careful, too, because there's another verdict coming from the Council of State. Maybe I should be a little more restrained and wait for that verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u39	How does the VVD view this period of reflection? The people in the Veenkoloniën are working on alternatives. They're looking at each other right now. A motion of this kind was passed before Christmas. That wasn't gratuitous, was it? That motion wasn't filed for nothing, was it? It can't be true that the VVD is just saying, "Well, I did it for my boyfriend in the coalition." Mr Bosman himself has an image of this when he says here today that he attaches importance to local communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u41	If that's the course of the VVD, why doesn't the VVD really give space to a local government to take it up with the residents themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u42	That's the difference between the CDA and the VVD: we don't get weak knees when it gets hard and we keep going. Hence the speed with which this cabinet is making progress in the transition to sustainability. As difficult as it may be, we go on. Of course, mistakes have been made, including in Drenthe. That's what we need to learn from. Fortunately, there is also a lot of good going in many places. We must be careful that we do not knock on the door here, that we do not become part of an increasingly angry population and use that anger to make a point here. You have to be very careful about that. Of course, we must ensure that local government gets room and that it does, but people must also understand that sustainability will continue. This cabinet has shown that the agreements we make will continue. A number of aldermen I speak to say that it will take their time and that they will see what happens, but that time is really over. Things really have to happen. I hope that all the municipalities will now take that up as their own responsibility, with which they will work themselves, and that they will not wait and see what this cabinet or next cabinet will say. Each municipality has its own sustainability objectives. Get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u43	In my opinion, the people in the municipalities there simply want to meet the sustainability objectives, but perhaps in a different way than The Hague prescribes them. The energy agreement says that there will be work with support, but that has been trampled underfoot here. If the VVD-group in the Lower House is in favour of giving the municipalities the space, I expect them to do so when they come to an end. I actually hear the VVD group saying that we cannot and do not want to go back, but the VVD still has that choice. We'll find out later on the motion I'm going to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u44	Interesting, but I think we made some arrangements. There are binding agreements. You make appointments with people who apply for permits. They get those permits. We also have a responsibility as a government. We need to be a reliable government, including those people. That goes both ways. Of course things have gone wrong, and we have to learn from it, but that can't mean you're pulling a line through everything. If we do that, there are more places where we can draw a line through the plans. I think the CDA was also working on wind at sea, for example. Then that's not going to happen either, and it's hard. If you're gonna do all that stuff and pull stripes through everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u45	You'll have your own term, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u46	...we'll see it happen on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u47	We're not gonna discuss this until after midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u48	No, I have a point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u49	You also have your own term. I've allowed you three interruptions. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u50	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u51	If it's a point of order, you can fix it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u52	I think I just got something leaned on. I'm gonna have to be able to respond to that. It's something I didn't go into myself. It's just kind of leaning on me. I object to that. It's about wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u53	But that is not a point of order!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u54	I think that is a point of order, but we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u55	No, that's up to me. This is not a point of order. Mr. Smaling, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u56	I very much appreciated that the VVD voted in favour of the Smaling/Vos motion in December. That's what I want to say. However, after the Minister had sent his letter, I had the feeling that the VVD felt that the request from the motion had been met. I have my doubts about that, because what is then satisfied? The motion calls for alternative forms of energy to be studied during the period of reflection. There are several calculated plans for solar energy. For example, the solar plan now offered by a company from Dokkum costs less than those wind farms. You would at least expect the VVD to make that comparison and force the Minister, since she supported that motion, to look seriously at it, but I don't notice any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u57	The equations have been made and the agreements have been made. We also have appointments in time. That is what we have to see. I have noted that the SP will also be a signatory to the Climate Act. It's an illusion to tell the people in Drenthe that we'll get rid of those mills. In fact, we're at 16% in 2023. If you want to reach 100% sustainable, you have to add six more times. How are you going to explain that? We have to be honest with everyone and not just say that it's not that bad, because it's not going to be easy. If we are to be sustainable, we must all work together. We have to accept that. Then we'll have to go through with it. If we say every time we don't do it because it's so hard or it's not fair, where do we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u58	I note that Mr Bosman has not gone into the matter at all. You need 400 to 500 hectares in an area of 10,000 hectares to realize the renewable energy with solar panels that you need according to the wind plans. So you have a huge area left to achieve even more renewable energy. The acres are flying around you, so many landowners are there who want to do with it and now offer land to complete that plan. It comes from entrepreneurs in Stadskanaal, who want to give an impetus to the region. Maybe those people would have voted for the VVD if it hadn't shown such diffuse behavior here! Mr Bosman also says that the municipalities are on the move and are in charge. If there are three municipalities that are not involved, it is Aa and Hunze, Stadskanaal and Borger-Odoorn. So I ask Mr Bosman: which municipalities are involved in this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u59	We have to put it right in time. That appointment's been there for a while, and the meeting's been going on for a while. Drivers have a responsibility in this; let us all note that. The Chamber is not the last resort. We cannot say: if all the administrative consultations fail, we will correct that here. Local drivers shouldn't be able to start thinking: I'll wait for it to be resolved in the Chamber. Sometimes I notice that in some places. This doesn't happen in a lot of places. In many places there is a lot of ambition and enthusiasm. Maybe there's some restraint there to put the spa in the ground. But we should not pretend that we are going to correct the matter here in the Chamber. It has been discussed for a long time. It's been a long time. A lot of research has been done. They don't pay, and they don't pay in time. We have to be honest about that, too. We think that ambition is there. In fact, Mr Smaling may be even stricter than I am. That's why I think it's weird that he's saying, "Oh, boy, we'll do a little less here." Where do we do less and where do we do nothing less? There are also people who are disappointed about the ten to twelve mile off the coast. I do not hear Mr Smaling talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u60	Mr Bosman continues his speech. It has now used up two and a half minutes of its six-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u61	Nice one, Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants to take smart steps in making our society more sustainable. Last week I therefore tabled an amendment to the VET Act to replace the mandatory gas connection in houses with an energy connection. When I look at my colleagues like that, this is widely shared. Maybe we should pick this up together. This helps reduce gas extraction in Groningen, make sustainable choices and do not allow households to pay unnecessarily much. The energy agreement has contributed to those smart choices. Thanks to the current cabinet, the Netherlands has become more sustainable than ever. Where previous Cabinets avoided difficult choices, the current Cabinet has decided to halve gas extraction, to build the largest offshore wind farms and a huge ambition for renewable energy on land. I'm proud of that and the VVD wants to hold that line. In doing so, we have a strong preference for an agreement between social partners: an energy agreement 2.0. This may need to be even wider than the previous energy agreement, including the circular economy and all the opportunities that go with it. We need to move on to where we end now to make the Netherlands more sustainable in a smart way. This should create an affordable, reliable and clean energy supply. The emissions of CO into the open air must be controlled. The Energy Agenda has already made a good contribution to this. But CO doesn't stick to national boundaries. The VVD wants a firm commitment to CO savings in Europe. The fact that not all countries are equally enthusiastic about this is obvious. However, the VVD also sees an opportunity for an ETS (Emissions Trading System) group of, for example, eight Western European countries. Those countries should start within that Emissions Trading System, and should better price CO. How does the Minister see this? Last week I was in a residential area in Brabant. I've seen a whole neighborhood make it more sustainable. I was allowed to attend a lesson about the energy transition in an elementary school. Kids together figured out what energy is and how to deal with it. In this way, the generations after us are increasingly thinking about energy supply in a more sustainable and innovative way. I asked those kids in eighth grade, "Oh, boy, what are your plans?" They could come up with all kinds of plans and ideas. I also told them you're 12 years old now, but don't let anyone tell you that something can't be done. I said anything could, maybe not now, maybe not for a week, a year or ten years from now. I said, "But don't let yourself be told that something can't be done." I am therefore very pleased with these initiatives. I would like to hear from the Minister how he can support these initiatives, for example in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u62	I hear Mr Bosman talking a number of times about 'affordable energy supply'. In the VVD election programme I read that the available SDE budgets should be reduced. But at the same time, Minister Kamp increases that available SDE+ budget every year. In 2015, it was 3.5 billion. In 2016, it was 9 billion. In 2017, there is 12 billion grants. That's an exclusive wind at sea. How does this relate to keeping the energy supply affordable and reducing subsidies, as the VVD wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u63	The future lies with renewable energy. We all know that. At least, in this room, almost everyone knows that. Renewable energy has the future. If you don't bet on that, if you don't, you'll know you'll be behind the facts in ten, twenty years. Governing is forward-looking. The VVD thinks that's important. If you look forward, you'll see that you need to make it more sustainable. You have to put that ambition down. If you're well-sustainable, there's a lot of work to be done. That's why we have to take the case. We must invest and therefore also get work in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u64	That's not an answer to my question. I asked: how is the VVD going to reduce these sustainable subsidies? I get a whole story about "sustainable is the future," blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, What's the story in the VVD's election program? Are these subsidies being phased out or is the VVD continuing the line of Minister Kamp, from 3.5 billion to 9 billion to 12 billion? Mr Bosman just said it himself: green is money. Green costs an awful lot of money. What is it with the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u65	I've told several parties that I'm putting a line on about ten years. I expect we won't be using subsidies in ten years. This means, however, that in these ten years of CO prices must be well priced, a different tax system must be applied and energy forms in Europe must be coordinated. That kind of agreement must also be made. If you have all that and if that crosses, then the subsidies go to zero and you have a real energy price, which makes the market work just fine. If there is one example of a market that is ruined by subsidies, then it is the energy market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u66	Don't repeat me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u67	In the next ten years, therefore, there will still be a lot of subsidies paid by the VVD, while in the election programme, which is for the next four years, there will be a need to reduce subsidies. So that's just another typical VVD lie for the election, because the VVD is only going to spend more. That is what Mr Bosman just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u68	Well, then you're not listening very well. We're gonna take that down. It is in the hands of another cabinet, but we are about to start phasing out subsidies. Everyone knows that, too. I think you should put a dot on the horizon. Everyone knows that. Those subsidies are just gonna go off. You can also say with mad temper: we are now setting these subsidies to zero. Then you know that everything is broken down, that there are no more investments and that you can't do anything at all. That is why we are putting a mark on the horizon: in ten years' time, these subsidies will be at zero. There must be a number of preconditions. They count absolutely. There's nothing false in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u69	I would like to return to the speech of the spokesperson of the VVD on CO. I've seen the Cabinet's Energy Agenda. An important part of this is also an important element in the speech of the VVD spokesperson, who said: I am steering on COBut I think there is very little to steer on CO if that price is not right. Did I hear Mr Bosman say that we are going to move ahead with a leading group of neighbouring countries and set a price for CO, a price that does work? Did I understand him that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u70	I would prefer to regulate this at European level, but if that does not work, I will look at a leading group. I should also like to look at the Minister, because I think that line has been used a bit since we were President of the European Union. That's what we sent. I think it is important that we get out of there and if we say 'we take eight countries', then that is fine with me. I do not yet know which countries they will be. A number of countries are already working on this. So I'm looking for supporters. I can imagine that this would create a form of CO pricing within the ETS. I do think it should be within the ETS. I don't want a separate kind of tax or a separate kind of arrangement. That has to be done within the ETS, because if we do that within that Emissions Trading System, that emissions trading system of CO, it will work. I'm absolutely convinced of that. If that is going to work and there will be a price, there will be a lot more subsidies, because then it will be rewarding to have renewable energy run without subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u71	I've been a Member of Parliament for four and a half years. For four and a half years I have been talking to the VVD and the Minister about the emissions trading system, which is not working because the CO price is too low. I hear Mr Bosman saying 'preferably European', but it is not working. It's taking so long. If I make a motion tonight because the Minister does not promise the Chamber that he will work with a leading group with CO prices within the ETS. Will Mr Bosman then support me? Unfortunately, previous motions did not make it, because the VVD's support was lacking. Now I can count on the support of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u72	If the support of the VVD was missing and if the motion didn't make it, there was no absolute majority. So I think there were more people missing, but I will take a serious look at this. I think this is an important part of our electoral programme, and it says that we are taking this seriously. So I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u73	Mr Bosman was finished and Mrs Van Tongeren had already had his turn with an interruption. Yeah, we kept that very well here. Mrs. Van Tongeren, wouldn't you like to go again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u75	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u76	I can't get enough of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u77	I don't know if that applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u78	Mr Bosman just said in reply to a question from the PVV: we are going to cut these subsidies. We had a small debate on biomass. If you want 100% clean energy and if you want to cut the subsidies, the coal plants will just turn back on coal at some point. They'll be just as dirty as they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u79	Then Mrs Van Tongeren has only heard half of my story, because I said that phasing out subsidies is linked to the price of CO. It's en-and. You can't do one thing and you can't do the other; you have to do both. The phasing out of subsidies is very difficult if you do not get the CO price up. The net emissions, that funding, must be increased. If you don't, you got a problem. Then you can say that you're cutting the subsidies, but that pricing is part of it. Those two things are stuck together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u80	How high should the CO price be before coal-fired power stations can use biomass without subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u81	The whole system will run differently. Then there might be CCS, CO capture. All these things come together. It's a system that's going to run. The tax system becomes different. We need to move to another energy system. It's all going to get in the way of each other, but you have to do it This means that you have to price the CO and thus also reduce the subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u82	A short question: how quickly would the VVD want to bring the CO price to, for example, €40 per tonne? That is, after all, about the point where you no longer need that subsidy. How fast should that be, as far as the VVD is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u83	Preferably as soon as possible, but you should do so with partner countries. If eight of these countries say "we'll do it next week," we'll do it next week, but you have to do this together. I have already come back from Europe to a leading group of eight. I do not think that the Netherlands should take care of this as a loner. I don't think that's wise. With that eight-year-old group, it can be together as fast as all eight, but I am very curious to know what possibilities the Minister is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u84	It has, of course, most of all effect if you do it with the countries around us and if they all think of about €40 per tonne, but does Mr Bosman realize that you will then get a switch from coal to gas and that in fact you will also close the coal plants? I find it strange that he doesn't just want to make a fair deal with these companies about how their investments can still be valued and how we can take care of the jobs of all those people. He just wants to throw that price up as soon as possible. Then they close up, and then all those people are out of jobs, too. How does Mr Bosman rhyme with this? Why such a measure, a bit hidden, instead of a fair trial with those companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u85	No, that's bullshit, because we all know this is gonna take time. We're not gonna settle this tomorrow. Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that, too. It's gonna take time. I also think we should do this in a basic story. It's not about closing a coal power plant. We believe that CO should be priced; we believe that CO emissions should have a certain price. It's what's gonna make things happen. If you do that the other way around and close a number of things on the left and right because of a political choice, I find that unwise, precisely because you then do so as the Netherlands and not as, for example, the same group. How do the countries of that group deal with their coal power stations? Germany is still working on lignite until 2035. Then it's unwise. Then let's do it together. Let's have those conversations about what smart solutions are. So I think this is a little unwise. I find it special that D66 wants to do this in the Netherlands, whereas this is an excellent point that should be addressed at European level. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u86	Each party will have to have an answer to the question of how we achieve the goals of Paris. In the Netherlands, one of the cheapest structural solutions is the closure of coal power stations. That's where the choice comes from, driven from CO and from the goals of Paris. If we talk in the vein of 'you know what is going on', Mr Bosman knows as well as I do that if you buy a handful of marbles out of that jar of the ETS, you will actually indirectly close a coal power station somewhere else. At least it can't open there. So that is a European solution, as long as you buy those rights. Why does Mr Bosman deny this point throughout the debate on the closure of coal power stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u87	What it does is it raises the price. That is fine, but that does not mean that the coal plants in Germany or Poland will not be released. That's still happening, because you still need energy. So the energy bill goes up. The price goes up. That's just a cost story. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u88	Mrs Van Veldhoven will have her own term, and she will be able to reflect on it. I would like to give the floor to Mr Vos on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u89	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the future of Dutch energy policy, a future that we are shaping together and which we have also shaped here in recent years. If you look back on it, I think that this cabinet period has seen an enormous change, more than any other policy area. Moreover, a lot of new policies have been put in place, the initial results of which are now visible. Half of all Dutch coal plants, which we just talked about, have already been closed. I think it's good that we realize that for a moment. Half of all Dutch coal power stations are closed in one cabinet period. We're talking about the other half now. A lot of people in this House of Representatives, the majority, think that the other half should close too. Some of them are still resisting. It is quite a pity that we have a majority in one cabinet to close all Dutch coal power stations. That's profit we've made here. A colleague mentioned the extraction of gas in Groningen. We've halved the gas extraction in Groningen. That has been extremely important for the people there. This morning I heard another item on the radio saying that although people are still very worried about the damage to their home, they feel safer. It was said that they had it better than they had it in the past. Why is that? Because we here in the House of Representatives, pushing and pulling, got this minister to back down that gas extraction. And not just a little bit, but half. That's not the end of it. We have seen the number of solar panels on the roofs of houses in the Netherlands almost double every year. This means that residents in the Netherlands are contributing to this sustainable energy revolution. We are building the largest wind farm in the world in our North Sea. That is, of course, one of the most important achievements that has been achieved. All this combined, makes us go through a huge revolution from fossil, from CO2 emissions, to sustainable, to clean. We all know how important that is to our children's future. When we talk today about the future of our energy, I think it is also good to look back at what has been achieved. This minister, this cabinet, is giving fresh effect to the government agreement agreed in 2012. I have done it before, and I repeat it today: I congratulate the Minister on this. He has personally made a very big contribution to this. There are, of course, some points that we would like to draw attention to, because we do not think that it is so well arranged. The Labour Party has tabled a motion on the netting. This concerns the solar panels on people's rooftops. It is not just companies or residents who take care of that, as my colleague from the VVD said. It is also the policy of this government, of this coalition, that the netting arrangement is so successful. The minister said he'd look into it. He sent a letter. I thank him for that, but I would like to add that we would like this motion to be carried out in full. The same applies to wind energy on land. A large number of existing windmills are removed, for which new mills can easily be replaced. Then it is not the large wind farms, but small solitaire mills or windmills in a small group. It is very easy to adapt the existing system to this. That can also be because we have saved a lot in wind energy at sea and at the large wind farms that we are currently building. We can really do something about that in a very simple way. I would urge the Minister once again to take action for the next round of SDE+ to achieve this. We're considering a motion on this point. I've been talking about wind at sea for a while. In addition, we have seen a cost reduction of €0.24 per kilowatt hour in 2012 to €0.055 now. That's thanks to the scaling-up this cabinet has done. If you produce more of something, it becomes cheaper; you could summarize it in short. I think this is one of the most important achievements the Minister has achieved. Not only in the Netherlands, but also worldwide one can benefit from the innovations made by Dutch industry at the wind farms. The SER's assurance committee has advocated further building on that success. That's very important. If we succeed, we sometimes forget in The Hague that we can build on that and that it does not have to be just one fact. The assurance committee has proposed an additional wind farm at IJmuiden Ver before 2023. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, because the Labour Party Group would like to see this point realised. The report "Picking up and repacking" has been added to the Minister's documents. That report refers to a total budget of EUR 400 to 450 million per year for energy innovation. The Minister seems to be keeping open the possibility of getting that money out of the SDE+ scheme. My group does not think that is a good idea. The SDE+ is a very specific scheme. We would like to use it for what it is intended to do. I would like a response from the Minister on this point and also a clarification of the way in which he sees it. We do not want to mess up the budget of the SDE, as has happened in the past with the FES. We have already discussed the wood chipping subsidy. In parliamentary jargon this is called "the additional and most common subsidy for biomass." The Labour Party is not in favour of this. Not only the Labour Party, but almost the entire House of Representatives is not in favour of this. The supporters of the VVD are not in favour of this. The supporters of the other political parties are not in favour of this either. The readers of Het Financieele Dagblad are not in favour of it, given the main editorial commentary. And the readers of the Faith are not in favour of that either. I would just like to mention two newspapers which, as a rule, are not very close to each other on this subject. Why is the Minister the only one who still wants this, perhaps with the owners of the coal power stations? I would like to conclude by thanking the President for the opportunity to speak on this text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u90	I am missing a very important part of Mr Jan Vos' speech. That's the wind farm in the Veenkoloniën. In December, Mr Jan Vos co-signed a motion by Mr Smaling asking the government to look for alternatives. He filed that motion at a time when the permits had already been granted. At that time, the Minister could make nothing more than a pass in the place. He couldn't even say anything but: the judge is now on. That's what's gonna happen. The Council of State will take a decision on this matter. Two months before, in October 2016, Mr Jan Vos said at the committee meeting about this plan: "We cannot all say that we want to get rid of fossil and that we want to switch to green and then not share the consequences." He was talking about the wind farm in the Veenkoloniën. He also said: "The Minister has already taken a step towards the inhabitants. I think we really should leave it at that, otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation where we do not meet the objectives." Those were very wise words from Mr Jan Vos, but two months later he tabled a motion that was radically different. In October, he could have changed the plans. In December, he gave false hope. I would very much like to get a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u91	I don't think one of them contradicts the other. If you switch to renewable energy, it is very important that you take into account that this includes consequences for citizens. That is what I said, and it is part of the responsibility we bear as a government party. That's not always funny. The citizens now come up with alternatives, such as a solar park that we have also discussed here, and provide the necessary funding. If this can be incorporated into existing legislation and if I am asked as a representative of the people to draw attention to it in the Minister's office, I am the last one not to do so. I believe that we should not only ensure that renewable energy is realised in good time, but also that it should be done carefully. The Minister stated that he would not begin the installation of the windmills pending the decision of the Council of State. He has previously stated that he is prepared to look with the parties concerned at the implementation of the plans for solar energy. He also said that these plans could complement the existing agreements and contribute to achieving the longer term objective. I think that's a good answer. I can't wait to see how that goes. I would advise Mrs Dik-Faber's party to get a lot of votes in the upcoming elections. It may then be able to discuss this issue again in the formation if it does not agree with it. For our part, I think we have made it clear what we want: more renewable energy, but in the most careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u92	Before I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, I urge Members to intervene less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u93	Rightly so, but I just needed a few words to point this out, because I really don't understand. In October 2016, the Labour Party had the opportunity to say: we do not want the plan before us because it is too strong; Minister, do you want to take the alternative plan with solar panels seriously? The Labour Party did not say that. On the contrary, she has embraced the wind plan and said that the Minister has already made a lot of concessions. In December, two months later, the Labour Party comes up with a motion that offers false hope, which has only increased the unrest in the area and makes the residents feel unsatisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u94	Here a contradiction is created that is not there. I went to the Veenkoloniën two and a half years ago to talk to the initiators of the solar park. I sat at the kitchen table with people to see through the windows in front and behind their house where the windmills could be placed. I am well aware, with all the people in the House of Representatives, of what happened there. For many years, I have drawn the Minister's attention to the lack of local support and said that there are many more things to be done than Mrs Dik-Faber has just presented here in a brief summary. I will continue to fight for alternative solutions until the last moment, or for solutions that better respond to the wishes of the people there. I've been doing that for two years, and I'm gonna keep doing that. I therefore do not think it is necessary to create a false contradiction between what I would have said in October and what I put in the motion with Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u95	I would also like to comment on this point, because I expected Mr Vos to go into wind on land. The motion by Mr Vos and Mr Smaling was clear: it is time for a period of reflection, because things are not going well in the Veenkoloniën. I've been sharing that analysis for years. Unfortunately, things haven't been going well for a long time. That's why I've always fought for support. I used to get pitches and feathers for that. I welcomed the motion, but the question is when the PvdA Group is satisfied and with what result. Will it not be something until the Council of State has ruled? Do we still have to get the plans off the table? Or is the PvdA willing to take the plans off the table tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u96	Mrs Mulder, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Bosman, Mr Smaling first of all: we have all endeavoured over the past period to integrate renewable energy plans in Drenthe as carefully as possible. Mrs Mulder also knows that we have agreed in the consultation between all the provinces that each province is responsible for part of the objective. Other provinces do that neatly. Drenthe must also make a share. At the moment, we have asked the Minister to reconsider. The Minister has promised to do so and that construction will not begin until the Council of State ruling. So we have to wait and see. The same applies to Mrs Mulder as I said to Mrs Dik-Faber: in a few weeks' time there will be elections, so there will be a large number of seats, then you may be able to join the formation table; you have only been criticising everything you did here for four years, but then perhaps you can make a constructive contribution to solving major social problems in such a way that people in the Netherlands will accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u97	So when you express concerns in the House of Representatives, all you have to do is criticize. I find that a strange way of pointing out by the PvdA Group. I think we share the concerns about Drenthe. It would be clear if the PvdA Group were to clarify where it wants to land in the Veenkoloniën, because I have the feeling that she does not know it very well and that it would be very convenient for this to go over the elections. I think that's cheap from the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u98	I thought that was more of an announcement than a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u99	Maybe a third, short interruption then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u100	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u101	What does the PvdA want with the Veenkoloniën? Does she really want to give space to the alternative? Is she gonna make that clear before the election, or is she gonna lift it over the election?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u102	I tabled a motion with Mr Smaling, after we have spent years here in debates, including with you, drawing attention to the lack of support in the Veenkoloniën. So the PvdA has always been at your side at that point, but the PvdA says at the same time that we need to switch to renewable energy. I hope that this can be done in such a way, with solar and wind energy, that people in Drenthe and other places in the country are happy with the solutions we create with each other. We've asked for extra time for that now. Yes, that goes over the elections, but we've been working on this for years, so Mrs Mulder's suggestion in our direction is a little bit of a "how do I put it nicely?' inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u103	I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Vos for the fact that we were able to table that motion together in December. It was not possible to get them accepted without the support of the PvdA. But that's why I'm asking. That is also a bit of the question I asked Mr Bosman. Is the PvdA going to withdraw the cunt about that motion after all? Does Mr Vos think that the motion has been carried out? He is talking about the Minister's space, but his colleague Tjeerd van Dekken spoke on RTV Drenthe about a solar park as an alternative to the wind farms. In the way in which the Minister has now answered questions from the PvdA on this point, it is "supplementary" and that is different from an alternative. Mr Vos probably also saw the calculations; you just lay down 500 megawatts on solar panels instead of 150 megawatts with wind poles. You'll be in Nieuwe-Weerdinge against Emmen, but it's possible. One wants it and the possibilities are there. So what is the position of the PvdA as regards the execution of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u104	As far as I can judge, that motion is now being carried out because the Minister has said that he is not doing anything for the time being. We've asked for reflection. Well, there is that reflection now. I am very curious to see how that is going to develop. From the very beginning I have been in conversation with residents there to look at that option of a solar park. You know with me that there are a number of difficult aspects. So it costs more money and the question is where the money should come from. Who's gonna pay for that? It doesn't exactly fit in with the agreements we made. We've made agreements about 6,000 megawatts of wind on land. If that doesn't happen in Drenthe, what are we doing in Friesland, Overijssel and Zeeland? We've all made these arrangements for the whole country, where everyone does their part. So I think it's complicated to find a good solution, but it can. Just as I have said to other parties, I also say to you: I hope that you will be sitting at the table with us in a moment so that we can work together to create a solution for the people of Drenthe. In his letter, the Minister makes it very clear that there will be no start until the Council of State has given its ruling, etc. etc. There's that reflection now. Let's just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u105	It would be strange to build there while the Council of State still has to rule. So I don't see that as a reflection. You'd be crazy to build now while the Council of State might whistle you back. Mr. Vos is an intelligent man. With regard to wind at sea, he himself indicated how the cost price has fallen. Let's go for that Dogger Bank option and roll wind out at sea so we don't talk about megawatts anymore, we talk about gigawatts. Then why would you put 45 mills in those Drenthe Veenkolonies that fool a leading astronomical institute and make the people there unhappy who have not been known for a moment throughout the process? Any sane person would choose the route that is so obvious now? And that's not the route the minister wants to take right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u106	Mr Smaling also knows that we have agreed at European level that we will generate 14% of renewable energy in the Netherlands by 2020. That's a deal the PvdA wants to keep, too. I have already mentioned the other two complicating factors. I think we should consider all these factors together and then come to a good solution in consultation with the people there. In my view, that is what the Minister writes in response to the question we have asked. I really hope that we can achieve that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u107	Mr Smaling, you may still be able to reflect on this in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u108	Very briefly, then. Look at those calculations, Mr. Fox. A company can build a solar park there, which is cheaper than that wind farm. You can go straight to 500 megawatts and that's three times as much as wind energy has been predicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u109	There are three complicating factors: it costs more, it does not fit in with the agreements made in the Interprovincial Consultation and it does not fit in with the agreements made in the context of the European Union. I think it's okay to keep those appointments. Nevertheless, I hope that we will come to a solution that does justice to those agreements, but also to the interests of the inhabitants of Drenthe. Mr President, I forgot to say something that is very important. It's about the Energy Agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u110	You are really over your time, Mr Vos, I am very sorry. I call Mrs Van Veldhoven on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u111	Mr. Chairman. Sustainable green growth is the key to a prosperous future. We need to say goodbye to old fossil energy and focus on infinite energy from sun and wind. With the Paris agreement, the whole world is now in a state of crisis. We can choose: are we going to dangle at the back and miss the boat or are we going to lead the way and take chances? That's what D66 chooses for. With the Energy Agenda, the debate on a long-term vision after 2023 will finally start in the Netherlands. I am very happy that there are also VVDs who don't think "vision" is a dirty word. The vision itself also contains very interesting points that my group has been advocating for some time, such as treating heat grids the same as gas networks, because people do not necessarily want gas in their homes, but they just want a nice warm home. We are moving from a gas connection obligation to a right to energy and there will be more local control. When do these points come into the legislation? When's the heat bill coming to the Chamber? In order to further implement the Energy Agenda, we need to clarify the issue that remains to be addressed. When I read all these very thick reports, however, I find it difficult to add all the different things together. There is a lack of a clear overview of the facts. The Minister always thinks it is very important to have the facts in a row. Is he prepared to send the results of all measures and planned intensifications clearly to the Chamber in a single table? Then we will also know whether we are in fact achieving all the objectives of the energy agreement. May I remind all of us and the Minister that we do not count ourselves rich or poor, but rather take the middle scenario as our starting point? I would very much like to see the Minister's figures. There's one thing I'm worried about. The Energy Agenda refers to the Paris scenario, but the different transition paths then assume a CO reduction of 80%. That is far too little for the Paris scenario. So there is still a gap between what was agreed in Paris and what the transition paths are heading for, while in the piece reference is made to the Paris scenario. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. We have already talked about one gaping hole, but I would certainly like to mention it again in my own contribution. Where are the coal power stations? Where is the majority of the Chamber that has said that if we want to achieve the Paris objectives cost-effectively in the Netherlands, we will also have to close the coal plants? The cabinet has had more than a year to make good agreements with the sector, particularly with regard to the position of employees within the sector. What is the conclusion, however? Nothing; it's just being transferred to another cabinet. The argument for this is raging on all sides: maybe we will reach the Urgenda agreement by 2020, so we don't have to do it anymore. Let us be honest: the Minister himself knows very well that this is not about 2020 at all, but about the years after. Our CO emissions remain roughly the same in the current plans between 2020 and 2030, whereas they have to be reduced very much. A lot of reports have been written on the coal power stations. A nice independent report is the ibo-report, which was written before we got the discussions about "who wants what." The ibo report on the CO measures shows that phasing out coal plants is one of the best options to reduce CO emissions significantly at a low price. The countries around us are not for nothing, all in their own way, of course, they are not doing so in the same way to think about a partial coal exit. It is really disappointing that this cabinet ignores the wishes of the Chamber and misses this opportunity to make the Netherlands more sustainable. With that, the cabinet leaves all those people in uncertainty about their jobs and leaves all those investors in uncertainty about what it means to their business. I'd like to know from the Minister what he did this year. My group would like to receive a fact-finding report with a timeline before the election recess, which states what serious options have been on the table and what bottlenecks there were and which explains why no solution has finally been found. I would like a commitment on this point. I'll be on the windmills in Drenthe. D66 is in favour of wind energy. For the transition from fossil to sustainable we need windmills, but we also need to take good care of the people around them. They must have a say in major projects close to them. This applies to motorways, to mining and also to windmills. I would like the Minister to promise that the standstill he is holding until the decision of the Council of State, which is of course very sensible, will also be used for reflection. A large part of this Chamber and the Minister find each other on this point. Let's make good use of that time to think. I have a few final questions. In Groningen a high-voltage line is built that has an impact on nature. Why isn't this sufficient reason for wiring? What exactly is the Minister going to do to compensate for the damage to nature for all the people living there? Can the Minister confirm that with a new system of netting, the transitional situation has been set up in such a way that people who have already invested are sure of their investment so that the market does not close? You can invest in it if you know you'll still be covered by that arrangement. The Minister provides compensation for the indirect effects of the emissions trading system. That is important, because you do not want the industry to be driven abroad, because then you lose jobs and the environment gets nothing out of it. But of course, you have to check every once in a while if it's still necessary. I didn't see that test in the Minister's letter. Did he check if it's still necessary? Can he send the report to the Chamber on that? The Energy Agreement Committee recommends that we prepare quickly for new tenders for wind at sea, so that we can get to work quickly. Is the Minister prepared to map out the possibilities and search areas for a new park? We all know we need more wind at sea. Today is my appeal to the Minister: map it. I congratulate the Minister on the fact that he wants to pursue the innovation money plan. If we want to move from less than 14% to 100% renewable energy, we will still need a lot of innovation. Where does the minister get that money? At least I congratulate him on continuing that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u112	Mr. Chairman. We only have one earth, one creation and one common home. Let us deal with this very carefully. Pollution of air and nature, waste of materials and depletion of resources are a major threat to the future of our children and grandchildren. The production of natural gas causes earthquakes and is a serious damage to their safety and viability for the Groningen people. Fossil fuels pose great risks to the Dutch economy and prosperity. We are also too dependent on the Middle East and Russia. If we do nothing now, we will put the bill, which is financially and ecologically huge, in future generations. We are already seeing the consequences of climate change, floods and food shortages. It is good that the Netherlands is ratifying the Paris climate agreement, because all countries will have to take responsibility for it. The Christian Union is a co-signatory of the proposal for the Climate Act. We want a fast energy transition within one generation, so that we can leave our children and grandchildren a beautiful, healthy and prosperous land on a living planet. In view of the energy agenda that the Minister recently presented, we note that, although the views of our energy supply are not yet sufficient but positive, there is no concrete plans and national intermediate targets for achieving real CO reduction targets. In addition to the CO target, the Christian Union also wants a goal for renewable energy and energy saving. A motion has already been passed by the Chamber on this matter. Sending on CO alone is not enough and cannot be done as long as the ETS is not functioning. I would ask the cabinet to speed up the implementation of my motion asking for the ETS to be designed in such a way as to achieve the 1.5°C objective of the Paris Climate Agreement (30196, no. 433). A first step could be to agree a minimum CO price with like-minded countries. When are we gonna get started on this, I'm gonna ask the Minister. What is missing from the Energy Agenda is the coal-fired power stations. The cabinet has passed a decision on this matter to a subsequent cabinet. The Christian Union wants this Chamber to take another decision on the closure and has co-signed an amendment by Mr Jan Vos. For the Christian Union, it is also difficult to justify the government continuing to stimulate coal flow through the SDE+ for biomass supplement. The Minister expects that the latest subsidies for this will be made available in 2017, as the 25 petajoule ceiling of the Energy Agreement will then be reached. In doing so, however, he ignores a motion adopted by the Chamber. Furthermore, we find it incomprehensible that there will be a separate incentive arrangement for CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage, the storage of CO.This is expensive, does not contribute to the energy transition, and even maintains fossil. The RVO, the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands, I believe that the chairman does not like abbreviations in my opinion is that it is fully...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u113	It's not just about me. The people in the public gallery and everyone who is watching must all be able to follow the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u114	The RVO estimates that for 1,330 megawatts of wind on land there may be unwanted clean-up in the years up to 2020. However, the Minister does not think that additional agreements are necessary. Can he back that up? We see in practice that wind on land does not always have support, with the Drenthe Veenkoloniën as the lowest point. That's where the process, especially in the beginning, didn't go well. Not the Minister, but the judge is the move; I said it before the vote on the motion. In an explanation of vote I asked the Minister to use the period of reflection for support, compensation and participation. I don't read anything about that in his letter. The Christian Union is keen to see a delta plan for the Veenkoloniën, in which the Empire takes responsibility and makes maximum use of compensation, living quality and employment. Now the initiators have all the lusts and the residents mainly the burdens. I am considering tabling a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u115	It sounds happy now as if the Christian Union Group really wants to replace the plans for wind with other plans. So not in addition to those plans, as the Minister now points out. Do I understand the Christian Union Group? Is there really room for the Christian Union Group to remove perhaps a very large part of the windmills, withdraw this plan, and then go ahead with other plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u116	This plan isn't new. It's been talked about for years. The plan has been adapted on the basis of participation by residents. If we are going to change the plan or take an advance on another plan or on alternatives, I think we are speaking for our turn. The judge's up now. We have taken advantage of the period in which we were able to adapt the plan by actually adapting the plan. But that period is behind us. If we pull the plug tonight or change the plan significantly, we will sit on the judge's seat. That's just not the issue. The Council of State needs to speak first. That is exactly what I indicated in my explanation of vote on the Smaling/Jan Vos motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u117	I am a little confused, because the PvdA Group has just been accused of everything. Now the Christian Union itself has a bit of butter on its head. What does the Christian Union really want in the Veenkoloniën? Does she really want to give space or is it just for the stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u118	I, together with the CDA, with Mrs Mulder, tabled an amendment to the Environment Act to legally anchor participation and compensation. Unfortunately, that did not go well with this plan. I would very much like the Minister to get to work on this. Now the lusts end up with a few people and the burden on a lot of residents. It has to be really different, and that is why, in my explanation of vote, I called on the Minister to do something about this. He totally left that. I ask him about that and I want a response to that point. I am also prepared to table a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u119	Do I understand that the Christian Union is actually saying: the plan remains upright, but the money needs to be distributed differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u120	We've substantially modified the plan as it was there. The Chamber did, and the Minister did. The plan as it stands has gone through all the procedures. Authorisations have been granted. The only person who can change the plan now is the Council of State. If the House of Representatives would do that, I don't think it could, but if it could, it would be inappropriate administration. Honestly, the Council of State is the move; not the Minister and not the House of Representatives. The time for changes in the plan by the House of Representatives is over. That period could have taken advantage of other parties for a majority, but that did not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u121	Let me ask you a question for confirmation. Do I understand correctly that the Christian Union considers those 45 windmills there to be a fulfilled fact? Mrs Dik-Faber says: we can see what the Council of State is doing with this; we are not interfering? You have to think that away, because that's a journey of your own. Apart from that, Mrs Dik-Faber says: those 45 mills are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u122	We have the separation of powers in our country, but I do not have to explain that to Mr Smaling. We have the judiciary, the legislature, etc. Our trajectory is behind us. The time for the House of Representatives and the Minister to discuss it is behind us. This period has been used by the House of Representatives with the Minister to make a significant adjustment to the plan. There's been a row of turbines pulled out. The number of megawatts has been greatly reduced. And at some point the permits were issued. If the permits are issued, the time for the Lower House is over. Mr Smaling then tabled a motion to pull the plug or at least to look for alternatives. That motion cannot be carried out. Mr Smaling raised false hopes among the inhabitants. It just can't be. It is not the Minister's call, I said it in my explanation of vote, but the Council of State. I can find all sorts of things, but that's what's going on right now. What we in the House of Representatives can still do is to organise support, participation, compensation. Those are the words that are going on tonight, but it is no longer about changes to the plan. We should have done so at an earlier stage. If there had been a majority for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u123	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u124	...that would have happened, but now our turn is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u125	Mr Smaling, do you think you can ask a question that does not result in a repetition of moves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u126	Yes, because I wonder why the Christian Union supported that motion by Mr Vos and myself in December. What Mrs Dik-Faber is saying is contrary to what that motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u127	I shall read out three more sentences from my explanation of vote: 'We do not want to raise false expectations. The permits have been granted. It's not the Minister now, it's the Council of State's move. However, we would like to give the Minister a moment of Christmas reflection to see how the basis for support can be increased and at least compensation and participation can be well anchored in the plan." We have therefore given the Minister a moment of reflection. The Minister didn't go into that. I'd like to get a response to that tonight. If you don't like the answer, I'll put a motion to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u128	You weren't at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u129	No, not yet. It is good that an intensification package for the energy agreement has been agreed. In doing so, the chairman of the Committee on Security and Cooperation called for the possibility of creating an additional wind farm at sea before 2023, due to all the uncertainties in the energy transition. Is the Minister going to work on this recommendation? Others have asked for that too. Small-scale winds, solar PV and other small-scale projects often benefit less from the SDE+, while they can count on considerable social support. Does the Minister intend to shape the SDE+ in such a way that social benefits also take into account? The new 380 kV connection from the Eemshaven has great effects on nature and landscape. This may be quantitative, but never qualitatively compensated. We therefore ask the Minister to build 10 kilometres underground from this route. Then there's the agricultural sector. Dutch farmers and growers not only supply food, but also energy. They would like to know what the netting scheme looks like after 2020. They still experience the postcode rose scheme as very complicated. Does the Minister want to get to work on this? The energy transition will only succeed if citizens are sufficiently involved. I note that there is still a real delay, that citizens do want to, but that there is a great deal of embarrassment. I believe that there is a task here for the government and for the local authorities to send out a uniform message.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u130	Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the energy agreement and this has been made more topical by the Paris climate agreement. We will have to meet our European objectives in the areas of CO, energy saving and renewable energy. The CDA supports this and assesses the development of the plans based on employment, innovation and support. We had hoped that the Minister would give more weight to support. The CDA therefore wants a next energy agreement to be built regionally from the bottom up, based on regional energy savings and renewable energy plans, allowing governments and residents to make their own choices within frameworks, and how the needs and burdens are shared. In future energy policy, we need our citizens very badly. There are still many loose ends in the Energy Agenda and also in the Minister's answer to the questions, for example additional policies on the ETS emissions trading system. The core of European climate policy is the ETS. Now the 2016 National Energy Exploratory states that the CO price in the ETS will have little effect over the next ten years. The Minister also wrote in his letter that additional policies are needed, and we agree with him. What's the Minister thinking? Is he thinking of additional pricing as in the United Kingdom or jointly in North-West Europe? What we want is a fair playing field and long-term investment security. Is that what the Minister wants? How's he gonna realize that? Business has an important role to play in achieving the CO reduction. The province of Groningen inspiringly shows how to grow the economy in the Eemshaven and how to reduce CO emissions. She uses the carrot-and-stick by making financing for growth possible in an attractive way and having the Environmental Management Act at the back in case companies don't do what they can. Is the Minister prepared to take this policy as a starting point for the whole of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u131	Ms Mulder pointed out a number of shortcomings in the ETS, which did not actually work, as other colleagues have summarised. Is it now in favour of the various objectives? In the past, the CDA Group has always been, but I can't really hear her about it anymore. I see her nodding yes, so she's in favour of renewable energy, CO reduction and energy saving?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u132	I said it at the beginning of my speech, but I found that we only have six minutes of speaking time, when I was assuming seven. So it had to be a little faster, but I said at the very beginning that we need to meet the European objectives we set ourselves in the areas of CO, energy saving and renewable energy, and those three will also be right on track, including for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u134	For the CDA, a world that we want to pass on also means that our inhabitants are involved in radical energy measures, that they can take responsibility and that the lusts and burdens are shared fairly, so good arrangements for participation and compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u135	An interruption on the previous point, I think, by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u136	I often hear Mrs Mulder refer to that example in the Eemshaven. A good example will do well. Because she refers to this in passing, perhaps we do not all have on our retina what following that example would mean for the whole of the Netherlands. How much money would Mrs Mulder want to spend on the whole of the Netherlands? And what kind of financing measures does she see in front of her, with the help of environmental management? Can we get some more information on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u137	Thank you for giving me a more detailed explanation on this point. I am also a spokesman for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, and I am looking at the FMO, the development bank. It once received 600 million guilders and now has an own funds of EUR 2.5 billion. So they're doing something right. The development bank invests in high risk countries and high risk projects. Then I think: yes, that is actually what we are talking about here when we look at our climate policy and our energy policy and at the steps we all need to take now. So we have a wonderful example of how it can be done, and we should also do this in our energy and climate policy: investing in companies. What is now so beautiful: in the Eemshaven they already show it. There you will see beautiful growth ambitions of companies and there will be jobs. That's what we all really want. And what does the province of Groningen do? It says: 'Well, here we have a pot of revolver money, so not free money, but really a loan, and that money can be used to make such an investment possible.' The foreign mothers of these companies often demand that such an investment be recouped in two years. This is often not possible with this type of investment, so you need a slightly longer term. I see you looking, Mr President, but I am so excited about these possibilities!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u138	Yeah, I can tell. It should be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u139	Then I'll try to finish. What is so beautiful is that a province with such a fund can offer companies attractive interest rates if they want to grow in the province and ensure that their CO emissions are reduced. If they don't want to, you can come by with the Environmental Management Act. I think that's a great ambition for the rest of the Netherlands. I challenge our minister to realize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u140	I think we are all looking for this kind of proposal, which will bring about a win-win situation. I happen to be also the spokesman for development cooperation, and the FMO is indeed a good example in this respect. The question remains how you do that. FMO once also received some kind of initial capital. In my opinion, Mrs Mulder's story is very similar to the idea of a national investment bank, an idea widely shared in this Chamber. How much money would the CDA want to put into that national investment bank and where does it come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u141	It'll be here in a week and a half. Then the CPB comes out with all the calculations. But let's be clear that we have to reserve money for this. We'll come back to this. I know it is exciting, but we would like to do this in a good way, because it offers so many opportunities and jobs that we absolutely must not let it go. I am glad that there is very broad support in the Chamber to take these steps. That's what we have to do. Mr. Chairman. So we want good arrangements for participation and compensation. That brings me to a part of my speech which I am somewhat less pleased with. According to the CPB, far too few people are aware of the transition and far too few people are involved: only 2%. That's not how we're gonna make it. Pushing through from the top doesn't seem like the CDA is the right way. In the autumn of 2013, during the debate on the Energy Agreement, I said it should come from below. Now, more than three years later, I'm still saying that. In recent years, I have even tabled amendments in order to achieve this, but the Minister and the coalition are looking away and leaving our citizens with the problems on the sidelines. The CDA proposed that, as stated in the Energy Agreement, the code of conduct for wind energy should be mandatory, so that co-decision at the planning stage and participation would be compulsory. The minister didn't. VVD and PvdA, but unfortunately also D66, supported him in that. While pointing to the EU and the province, it is The Hague that does not fulfil its role. We do read that environmental management is being improved, but I see in Drenthe residents who have it checked out and do not get the chance to decide. The PvdA takes over when all decisions have been taken. Does the PvdA dare to say "b" now? Will we ask the Minister together to withdraw the integration plan and environmental permits, so that a fresh start can be made, even from the bottom up? In addition, we can look at how we are going to achieve something locally. The number of megawatts remains as far as we're concerned. In achieving renewable energy and energy saving, it will also play a role in ensuring that large solar projects, according to calculations, can now be carried out for the same subsidy as wind energy. You can see the number of solar projects rising very sharply because the cost of the panels has fallen so dramatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u142	In this Chamber, we have a radical difference of opinion on how to deal with provinces that have agreed on the amount of wind energy to be realized and on a tough agreement within Europe on the percentage of clean energy to be generated in the Netherlands. Mrs Mulder pretends it's sintering classroom every day, as if you can do those two things and in the meantime, you can meet all the inhabitants all the time. Can Mrs Mulder tell me when the initiators of these fields would own enough land to actually achieve clean energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u143	I was at the presentation in Buinen, one and a half weeks ago. That's where we heard there are all options on the ground. The basic positions have already been taken in principle. The initiators could make the first investments from mid-year onwards, so that next year the first solar collectors could be there. So it can be done quickly, but then there must be the will to replace some of those wind turbines with solar collectors. The investors have even offered to explore the possibilities together with the wind farmers. Let the conversation take place there between residents, municipalities and province. Give me that opportunity. To all the parties who supported the motion here in the Chamber just before Christmas, I say: if you have supported that motion and you have said a, then you must also say b. Otherwise, it really isn't credible. I've actually been saying a since 2013. Since then, I've been talking about support. Each time I was smeared by parties like Mrs Van Tongeren's because I stood up for the interests of residents. We really need a fair distribution of desires and burdens. That really didn't go well. I must say that a lot of wind farmers really go with heart and soul for sustainability. I really want to highlight that side here. Those farmers didn't go well either. No one wished for this result. Nobody's happy with the way things are going in Drenthe right now. I think it's time for a change. It's time we looked at how we're gonna solve it together, because that energy transition doesn't go until 2030, but it might go up to 2050 or even further. We're gonna have to work like hell for that. We do not just achieve the objectives, but we have seen that there are real possibilities in these plans for alternatives. So let's really take that seriously with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u144	I hear from Mrs Mulder an incredible amount of text that she is trying to cover up that either we will not achieve the objectives in Europe, for the climate treaty and for our own Urgenda statement, or we will need a very long time to settle this. Those land were not purchased within six months. Mrs Mulder and I both know that very well. It's not gonna be possible to get the permits around within six months and fit this in. This is a huge piece of land and it should be realized in several places. In addition, we would not keep the agreements made with the province. Does Mrs. Mulder want to take care of all that? The climate treaty, our own agreements on renewable energy and the agreements with the province are all simply thrown away. And what's in return? There is a very long-winded and as complicated process as we have now, which runs until perhaps then those land has been purchased once and perhaps then those permits have been passed. Mrs Mulder knows as well as I do that this is not going to happen, and that this is certainly not going to happen in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u145	It would please Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks if she were to speak more closely with her own alderman, who should help to make these plans possible. He's excited about that. The other council members I spoke to at that meeting in Buinen are also enthusiastic. They really want to go through their procedures as quickly as possible, sometimes even within two weeks. That goes for City Canal. To get things done, they really want to do everything they can, they said there. But they must be supported by us. Well, apparently they're not supported by GroenLinks. This has unfortunately become painfully clear today during this debate. I think that is a pity, because with butter on her head, Mrs Van Tongeren gave false hope just before Christmas. I really don't get this from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u146	I see Mrs Van Tongeren walking back to the interrupting microphone. This is entrapment, I get it. But let's keep an eye on the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u147	I'll make it a personal fact, then, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder is simply not responding in the second period of the interruption. She chooses to break the agreements we made with the province with the climate agreement. Moreover, it does not comply with the judgment. She says, "Well, it's gonna take a while." Mrs Mulder also knows that a permit will not be completed in two weeks. That doesn't work for a license for windmills and it doesn't work for a solar park. People are allowed to object. Mrs Mulder has just argued that there should be plenty of time and space for that. It should not be with wind, but with sunshine it could be filled with steam and boiling water, without those lands already being owned? Mrs Mulder knows that's not true. She just doesn't want to admit that what she's saying here isn't possible. She just doesn't want to admit that a whole set of appointments will be broken at all levels. She doesn't want to admit that she gives the people in Drenthe totally false hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u148	I say for the sake of purity that we have just heard Mrs Van Tonger's correction to what Mrs Mulder put forward in terms of content. Because there was entrapment, I gave Mrs Van Tongeren the opportunity to speak again. However, this was not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u149	I do not agree with GroenLinks very often, but in this case I do. Mrs. Mulder of the CDA simply gives people of Drenthe false hope. If she really didn't want windmills in Drenthe, she should have supported the PVV motion. Why didn't she support the motion asking for windmills not to be set up in the province of Drenthe and the Veenkoloniën?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u150	I've always argued for a mix. That's what I did at the meeting in Buinen. I've always been clear about that. I have always said that we should also look at alternatives. Even Mrs Klever of the PVV can't deny that. It is possible that that is not its line; the CDA and the PVV are other parties. However, I have always argued in favour of space. I've been doing that since 2013, because things aren't going well in the Veenkoloniën either. You can close your eyes to that now, or you can say: let's look at those alternatives. This question is now before the Minister for the motion which was adopted just before Christmas, which is a reflection motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u151	But this is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u152	I'm gonna come back to that reflection. If Mrs Mulder really wants these alternatives to be looked at and no windmills to be installed, why does she come up with a lame motion of reflection? Then why doesn't she just say stop with the windmills and go with the solar park? She is now presenting a vague motion with the term "thinking." That could mean anything. The Minister thought about it for two weeks during the Christmas holidays: well, that's reflection! Isn't it just cheap electoral rhetoric to come up with such a vague motion right before the elections that doesn't offer any guarantee to the inhabitants of Drenthe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u153	When that motion was before Christmas, of course I thought about questions like "what do the PvdA and the SP want on this point?', "Do I support that?" And "if I say a now, do I say b?'. I'm gonna say b tonight, too. I'm coming up with a withdrawal motion. The PVV Group could support that motion or not; that is up to it. However, I do think you should know what you stand for when you sign such a motion just before Christmas. Then you do it or you don't, but of course you're not gonna move in your cunt, like the PvdA seems to be doing right now. That doesn't look like shit. Other parties do, by the way. Then I say butter on their heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u154	I tabled a motion just before Christmas not to place windmills in the Veenkoloniën. The CDA didn't support that motion. I'll retable the motion tonight. I hope that the CDA will support her now and that it will take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u155	I've always argued for a mix. I want to give the region the space to get out of there. The number of megawatts of course just stays upright. Unlike the PVV, the CDA would like to go for renewable energy for the future. We need that whole mix to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. And you know what? The people in the Veenkoloniën know that very well. That's why they come up with alternatives. That's what's good for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u156	Mrs Mulder continues her speech and is going to conclude it gradually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u157	It is not just about the possibility of deciding; it is also about the possibility of taking advantage. I do not mean that, at the moment when the permits are completed, it is still possible to see if a very small fraction of the proceeds can perhaps be sent to the inhabitants, as is the case in Drenthe. If the Minister and the House of Representatives think this is the way, they still haven't understood it. Deciding and profiting, shouldn't that be in conjunction? How does the Minister view this? In his letter on environmental management, the Minister leaves it mostly without obligation. The CDA wants governments and initiators to be obliged to take part in decision-making and to participate more in wind energy projects. In addition, the CDA wants our residents to be able to buy shares in the wind farms in the North Sea and in IJmuiden Ver. The CDA argued for that a few months ago. Tonight, the PvdA finally does the same. My next point is about the 380kV connection from Eemshaven to Vierverlaten. As in the case of Drenthe, we are dealing here with statements from the Chamber which are not carried out by the Minister. The CDA calls on the Minister to discuss an acceptable solution together with TenneT, the municipalities, the province and civil society organisations. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I come to talk about cooperatives in the field of renewable energy. Then it's just people who are laying the foundations for a sustainable energy project together. It does not have to be the foreign energy giants who want to earn something from it; we can do it ourselves. The CDA wants a better regime for cooperatives in the field of renewable energy. The postcode rose scheme remains incredibly complex. The IRS isn't known for thinking along. Let us create a separate scheme for cooperatives, a simple scheme in the SDE+ scheme. I have been asking for three years now, so perhaps the Minister is thinking: let's do it again. Solar energy at home also contributes a lot to support. The CDA understands that it is good to evaluate this and to look at improvements, but it does want households investing in solar panels to maintain investment security on their own roof. Several groups have already spoken about this today. There are still concerns about this. Can households boarding for 12 years this year or next year? I'm closing up. I hope the Minister is prepared to take steps towards Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u158	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing future energy policy today, but I would like to start with the windmills in the Veenkoloniën. We've been talking for years about windmills, which have to rise all over the Netherlands and Drenthe. No one in this Chamber had any objection to that except the PVV. With the elections approaching, the parties are now suddenly trying to win voters in Drenthe with a weak motion on "a period of reflection." It is to the credit of the Minister that he does not cooperate in this. If these parties really believe that windmills should not arise in the Veenkoloniën, they could have supported my motion which called for this, but no party has done so. So stop this charade. All parties in this Chamber have simply agreed to the megalomaniac windmill park in the Veenkoloniën. I will retable the same motion in the second term. If the Chamber really cares about the Drenthers, she will now support the motion. If not, these are just hollow words and campaign rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u159	Mr Vos, do you think you're going to convince Mrs Klever with your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u160	Mr President, there is no need for that, because the Acts of the Chamber are public. In the reports of the general consultations we have had, it can be seen that for many years almost all the political groups in the House of Representatives have called for attention to be paid to the situation in Drenthe and also to the situation of other residents of the Netherlands who are confronted with the consequences of our energy policy. Now saying here that it is not, is simply demonstrably incorrect. That's not a question, it's a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u161	I agree with Mr Vos that fine words have always been spoken, but there were never any actions. It has always been said that we must achieve the objectives and that each province must meet its objectives. Then there were nice words to the effect that we sympathized with the people in Drenthe, but no action was taken not to place those windmills. That's what I'm talking about. I will continue my speech on the future energy policy. During the few billion years that our Earth has existed, the climate has constantly changed. The response of humans and animals to climate change has always been that we have adapted. Mr Darwin has even written a pretty well-known book about this. We, as a society, do that by innovating. We have built our prosperity on this innovation. The Stone Age has not ended by banning the use of stones, but by innovating. Banning the use of fossil fuels in exchange for subsidies, as many parties here advocate, is not going to put an end to the fossil age. Innovations that provide a better and cheaper alternative to fossil fuels will put an end to the fossil age. Unfortunately, this cabinet does not have room for this, because it has opted for a subsidy-driven energy transition. More than three years ago, in the very first debate on the energy agreement, the PVV pointed out the lack of attention to innovation. After four years of energy policy by this VVD Minister, the future of our energy supply looks bleak. Over 20 billion in grants have been distributed by this VVD Minister, for which the whole of the Netherlands can pay the bill in the future. That is just the beginning, because we read in the Energy Agenda that, according to McKinsey, between EUR 10 billion and EUR 15 billion per year, funding is needed to meet the 2050 targets. That's a crazy amount. Have they contributed many billions so far to an energy supply that is not dependent on fossil fuels? The answer is no. Last week's letter shows that by far the most money has been spent on biomass or Canadian wood chips that we are deprived of here in coal power stations. According to the EU, this is sustainable. According to the PVV, this is completely idiotic: burning a wood fire to generate renewable energy, in the twenty-first century. That little wood fire costs the Dutch citizen billions of euros in subsidy. It is not strange that this Chamber called on the Minister by way of motion to stop this madness. Another large part of the budget is devoted to wind turbines, an age-old uneconomic technique, the only innovation of which is that they are getting higher and cause more and more nuisance for more and more people in our country. While the Minister pays billions of euros in subsidies for electric driving, almost the entire car industry says it sees more in hydrogen. The whole energy agreement exudes the spirit of a centrally managed planning economy. The government decides what happens, when it does, and how it does. History teaches us that so much government interference does not lead to progress. Change does not come from above, but from below, from smart citizens and companies that innovate and come up with better and cheaper solutions. The task of the government is to facilitate this innovation and not to distribute subsidies like crazy to windmills, electric cars and wood fires from Canadian wood chips to generate electricity. One of the objectives of the Energy Agreement was to provide long-term security. The PVV also wants the Minister to offer certainty. That is why we ask the Minister for the following assurances. Can the Minister guarantee that the Netherlands will hold competitive energy prices for business in the future? Can the Minister guarantee that energy remains affordable for Dutch households? And can the Minister guarantee that he will not saddle future generations with an unaffordable and unreliable energy supply? In conclusion, thanks to this Minister's energy policy, we remain dependent on fossil fuels for the time being, whether we like it or not. The PVV would have liked that to be different, but thanks to the energy agreement, there is no room for real innovations in our energy market. Only parties that are good at lobbying for subsidies have a chance in this market. In order to keep our future energy supply still somewhat affordable and reliable, we once again call on the cabinet to tear up the energy agreement and to stop all market-distorting subsidies. Only then will companies invest in truly revolutionary innovations that will take us one step further in evolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u162	Mr. Chairman. A torch parade is underway in Groningen to indicate that the process of gas extraction, damage allocation and the restoration of schools, homes and cultural heritage is still very unhappy. We are discussing energy policy here today. I can be brief about the SP's plans: we are now under the Climate Act and will also, when it comes to discussing a new coalition agreement, use climate law as a starting point. The Energy Agenda presented by the Minister provides a good framework for implementing the Climate Act, only missing years and targets. What needs to be done is that we are sticking it to such an Energy Agenda. I would also like to use my speech to look back, particularly at the way the Minister has dealt with Parliament. I am referring specifically to the way in which he deals with motions for resolutions that have been adopted. In any case, there are already five major motions that this Minister has not carried out. I call it accelerated electric driving. An important motion has been passed on this. It said "targeting" a faster introduction of electric driving. That has not been taken seriously. I also refer to the split between Eneco and DELTA. That was fought in the First Chamber. The Minister said on the spot that I am not implementing her about a majority vote against this split. This led to the rejection of the STROOM Act. That's a risk the Minister has taken. In the meantime, Eneco is ready to split and 300 people have already lost their jobs. Coal-fired power stations have already been mentioned. A motion from D66 has been adopted on this. You can say that five are already closed, but five are still open. There could have been steps taken, especially with the Nuoncentrale and also with the Amercentrale. Steps could have been taken long ago in talking to Breda and Tilburg about maintaining their heat supply when the Amercentrale closes. Several motions have been adopted on biomass by-products. There are billions of taxpayers' money in dragging wood chips across the ocean with boats coughing up a lot of dirty fuel oil. It goes on and on. There's going to be money spent on it again. Of course I'm going to talk about the wind farms in and around the Drenthe Veenkoloniën. The Mining Act has also been amended in a strange way, after amendments, rather than simply being sent to the Upper Chamber, have been sent to the Council of State. Around the wind farms borders are crossed: limits of what you can expect from your people. Both in the energy agreement and in the wind energy structural vision on land there are extensive pieces of text on acceptance and participation. What happened to that? Nothing. A motion which has been carried out led to the temporary appointment of an area coordinator, Mr Oterdom. He came up with shocking conclusions about the vote in the area. There's nothing done with that either. The views put forward are mainly intended to be able to go to the Council of State afterwards, otherwise you are not welcome there. Why is this persistent? Why is social cohesion being undermined in an area that is not so easy anyway? Why undermine a leading international research institute in the field of astronomy? Why is a landscape of great cultural historical value, an old energy landscape, so fucked up? There's no need. There are alternatives. Solar parks can be built, generating three or four times as much renewable energy at the same price. Entrepreneurs from Dokkum and elsewhere have calculated that. That can just be at the same price and perhaps even cheaper. Information, submission of views, dissemination of information leaflets: all this has nothing to do with participation. And now environmental management is coming at us. In the letter on the environment management of the future, it is about connecting stakeholders, involving the environment as early as possible, transparency and trust, joint responsibility and customisation. When you hear that, you can see that the contrast with how it went in the region can't be greater. What the hell are we doing here? The energy agreement section 4.2.1 on wind on land states: "The forced continuation of projects is counterproductive. In order to reserve more space for wind on land, social and political support is urgently needed at local and provincial level." And there isn't. I would like to say to the initiators: go talk to the people in the area and be open to sunshine as an alternative and don't take the path that you're going to argue for decades and decades in which no one wants to play with your children. Alternatives based on sun are widely available. The area is 10,000 hectares large and already 1,000 hectares have been offered to realize that sunbathing area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u163	I hear a very angry Mr. Smaling. He's angry about the wind turbines in the Veenkoloniën. I have one more question. Just before Christmas, I tabled a motion not to place wind turbines in the Veenkoloniën and the SP simply voted hard against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u164	Yeah, but you know what it is, you guys as PVV just don't want anything. The SP wants renewable energy. Only the SP wants the people to be part of it and that the entire peat-colonial region from Veendam to Coevorden thinks: we are going to be the frontrunner in the field of renewable energy. It is a question of renewable energy with the citizens and with the business community there. Just look at what the entrepreneurs in Stadskanaal have brought together in their own time and without the ulterior motive to earn from it in order to achieve something there. Do you think it's crazy that I'm angry? But I'm not against everything like the PVV and don't say about everything: that's all bullshit, get rid of it! No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u165	Mr Smaling can say that we want renewable energy with the people. But people don't want those windmills at all. If I make a motion to not place windmills, the SP votes against. And here Mr Smaling says: I am so angry, because there will be windmills. I don't get it at all. This is a bit like campaign rhetoric: vote against a motion to stop the windmills and vote in favour of a motion with something about a period of reflection that does not offer any guarantee to those people. Aren't you just kidding people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u166	No, Mrs. Klever, your party is against everything. You are against Moroccans and at least against windmills. I want people in the region to decide for themselves what is best for their future in terms of renewable energy. There may be mills in between, but I just don't want to make the decision. That's up to the people themselves. You just have to see how people have already organised themselves to shape a future with renewable energy. It would be a good thing if you took a look at that too, because then you might be able to write a more positive motion which I would perhaps like to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u167	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u168	The only positive thing for the people in the Veenkoloniën is if those windmills don't get there. That motion was very positive. It is just such a pity that the SP comes here with all the empty words: we want sustainable energy with the people. But people just don't want it. They just don't want windmills. We didn't know how many e-mails and phone calls about that. I don't know how many people we've talked about that. They don't want those windmills. If Mr Smaling really means it, he should support a motion from me on that. I will give Mr Smaling another chance, because I will table that motion again tonight. And then I hope that it is not just hollow words, such as 'along with the people', 'period of reflection' and 'blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u169	What counts for the SP in this case is local democracy and local control. Mr Bosman also said that the local authorities are in a hurry. That is not the case at all, but my wish would be that this was the case and that the directors of Stadskanaal, Aa and Hunze, Borger-Odoorn and further towards Emmen could make such a plan. If they think there is room for windmills, but perhaps for fewer mills or lower mills, then I am not going to ban them. So to support a rabid motion on "no windmills in that area" just goes too far. I hope they don't get there. But I'm not gonna decide before these people decide whether or not windmills are gonna come. I am concerned that people decide for themselves what their landscape looks like in the future, especially a landscape with such an important energy history, because peat stings were our core business before we started coal and gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u170	The point is clear. You're either prosecuting or finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u171	Yeah, I'm closing up. I have mentioned five important motions, and these are also amendments to the Mining Act. I do not think all this can be done in a relatively short time frame. It undermines the authority of parliamentarians. It makes us an unbelievable interlocutor when we have to talk to people in the country about things that affect them. It is bad for the already limited confidence of many people in the functioning of democracy. The Minister creates an undesirable imbalance between the government and both chambers. I don't have to show up in Drenthe anymore. That's where they're gonna say, "Here's the guy with his passed motions again." I hope the Minister can see that too. In my view, this minister sees the members of both Chambers as some kind of interference force, as people you have to defeat, which you have to keep in line or keep at bay. We, as good sheep, have been chasing this minister for this whole period, because we always accept that motions are not being carried out. This sheep doesn't feel like it anymore. I think that is a very fundamental point. I am curious about the Minister's response and I really hope for a hand-out. I give him the opportunity to review his decision on the motion on a period of reflection for wind farms. If he is not willing to do so, I find it a difficult story and I don't know if the service car will have to drive back to Twente later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u172	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the future energy policy of the Netherlands, also known as 'Climate and Energy Policy'. It is a bit of a misconception that climate policy would only be about energy. A lot of green organizations are stuck in that frame. The cabinet is also trying to reduce climate policy a little bit to an energy agenda. That's a costly mistake of thinking. Climate policy goes far beyond a green energy supply and far beyond the borders of the Netherlands. For the Animal Party, that is the starting point of this debate, of all our debates actually. Keeping the Earth alive, with a stable climate and sufficient biodiversity, is our commitment. That is also the measuring bar through which we place energy policy. It is a question of making the earth viable again where it is no longer the case. It is a question of drought, floods and climate wars, and of keeping the earth viable for the future. That is our moral duty. Because the importance of a healthy environment has been constantly undermining all political decisions for so long, this is the greatest challenge facing our generation. A lot of valuable time has been wasted. So we can't waste any more time from now on. Nor should we make any more mistakes. As Einstein said, we cannot solve a problem with the same way of thinking that created the problem. The Labour Party just listed what has been achieved with this cabinet. Of course, no one denies that windmills are now running where they weren't before. But measuring the success of energy policy in terms of what you have managed to change compared to the old situation is one of the mistakes that we have to overcome. The success of energy policy must be measured by actually bringing a healthy climate and a viable earth within reach. If you do that honestly, you'll see that much more fundamental choices are needed. We will have to watch for the pitfalls, for example those of the most ribbed effect. In the meantime, vested interests can no longer fail to recognise that we need to focus on clean energy and on CO reduction targets, but do not really want to change. So they are half cooperating and pulling us into delaying techniques, which should give the impression that everything is happening. We must also guard against the classic error of lock-in, as it is called in the jargon, of continuing with and continuing to perpetuate activities that are untenable in the long term. These three warnings would like the Party for Animals to be included in this debate. If we then look at the actions of the cabinet, we must first of all note that the Energy Agenda is too vague, too slow and too fossil. Moreover, it is very annoying that the cabinet makes really wrong choices. Like I said, we can't afford that anymore. We have one subsidy pot to encourage new energy and the cabinet uses that precious money to co-incinerate biomass in fossil coal plants. That doesn't generate new energy, even if it doesn't produce any CO, but that does keep those dirty coal power stations running. The fact that the cabinet is still using scenarios in which coal power stations are still operating in our country in the year 2035 or 2040 is really poor assets. We don't have time and we can't afford this mistake. Millions are also disappearing from the same precious jar that is meant for really clean energy, for keeping the bio-industry alive. The fermentation of manure does not lead to new energy, because not only are thousands of animals kept in, day out, with all the problems that this entails, but also on the other side of the world jungle is being hijacked to enable soy to be grown as feed for those animals. The import of this feed alone and the energy use involved could provide energy to five million Dutch households. We can't afford a mistake like that anymore. It is not obvious to make our energy supplies dependent on an energy waste industry. And then I haven't mentioned the air scrubbers that are on those stables, which are also big energy slurpers. It is therefore important to take a broad look. Even if climate objectives cannot be attributed to the Dutch action, it is still wise to help prevent jungle quitting in Brazil. We are working on irresponsible global warming if we just say: come here with that soy, we put it in our bio-industry. We then turn the end product into a kind of green electricity that it is not, and we also use expensive subsidies for that. That kind of mistakes, that classic lock-in, we can't afford. The call of the Party for Animals to the cabinet is therefore: let go of the old thinking, bet on energy saving. The current objectives are really too weak and far too little is happening. Close the coal power stations, as requested by the Chamber. Stop biomass. Turn off the gas tap as soon as possible and make sure we can also get rid of gas. It's possible. According to the Council, a built environment without gas is already possible for the living environment and infrastructure in 2035. And also important for our climate policy: abolish the bio-industry as quickly as possible. Bet on new thinkers and new energy. We have just received a statue of the Minister in the context of a petition on the Square; I did not take it into the room, but it is in the back of the walkway. It's made of coal. I'd like to show it to the Minister. If he wants, he can take it home. The statue symbolizes the choice made by the minister. Does he choose to be the minister who has made a real commitment to a new energy policy possible, or does he choose to be the minister who has held back the coal irresponsiblely for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u173	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u174	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs for his first term in the debate on future energy policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u175	Mr. Chairman. You and others who were allowed to function in that place have done so 122 times. In this cabinet period, this is the 122nd debate we are having on energy. I do not count on the four debates we have had on paper, the so-called written consultations. We are talking about real debates with the Chamber. That was 122 in this cabinet period. This shows that the Chamber is very interested in this issue and that the Cabinet and I are also very interested in this issue. It also shows that we have done our best together to secure the energy supply of the Dutch people in a responsible way for the future. This means that it must be responsible energy, so as far as we are concerned, renewable energy. It must also be affordable energy. There must also be security of supply. During this cabinet period we have worked hard on this. We have done so on the basis of agreements and commitments that have been made. At EU level, with the then 28 Member States, we have still committed ourselves to making the transition to renewable energy. We have agreed to commit ourselves to energy saving and to achieve results, as well as to achieve CO emission reduction targets. To this end, directives have been adopted. For the Netherlands, this meant that by 2020 we had to have a 14% share of renewable energy. We were a little over 4% at the time. So it was a very big task for the Netherlands to do that. This challenge has been addressed by the coalition, which agreed in the coalition agreement that by 2020 we would achieve even 16% of renewable energy. The government coalition has found it very important to find broad support for this. That was also supported in the Chamber. There had to be a strong support for such a major operation as the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. We've been trying to get that big support, too. It worked. All the organized employers, the organized workers, the energy producers, the people who had organized around their own house, the consumers: everyone was given the opportunity to be there. These 47 parties, including the natural and environmental organisations Greenpeace and Nature & Environment, have said that they wanted to make these agreements with each other and that they wanted to commit to each other. They said they wanted to get things done that they were excited about and that they wanted to take care of the things they didn't like, because they thought it was important to work on a sustainable energy supply and to realize the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy as soon as possible. It is stipulated that we should reach the 16% by the year 2023 and the 14% by 2020. That whole complex of agreements in the energy agreement was a great challenge for everyone, but especially for me and the cabinet. I am responsible for a large part of the obligations and I must ensure that they are met. When parties give a certain explanation of the agreement, they still look at me to see what I think. One object to this, the other object to it. Nevertheless, thanks to the assurance committee set up by the ESC, we have been able to find solutions together to the problems that have arisen. Until the last minute, that worked. Last December, the Committee on Security and Cooperation announced that everything we have done in this cabinet period with regard to the energy agreement will, in her opinion, lead us to achieve the 2020 and 2023 targets. I am talking about all the things that we have set in motion and all the commitments we have made, as well as the agreements we made in December to do some extra things. I'm very happy about that. It has been very difficult, because we had to make the most of all the opportunities in the country to switch to renewable energy and to produce renewable energy. Otherwise, it wouldn't work. The European Commission has identified renewable energy. Nuclear power plants are not sustainable. Biomass is sustainable, as well as windmills and manure fermentation. It is also durable to use solar panels. They are all opportunities to produce renewable energy. We had to make the most of all these possibilities, including the possibility of biomass, to ensure that we were able to achieve those objectives. I have always indicated what I could achieve with these different forms of energy, what the objectives were and how I wanted to achieve them. The energy agreement stated that biomass should be limited to a maximum of 25 petajoules. I've kept to that. I'm not going above that 25 petajoule. For wind at sea there was a great ambition. I've been able to fulfill that ambition exactly. We have been able to agree with the provinces that by 2020 we have realized 6,000 megawatts of wind energy on land. We have been able to determine very precisely how much it should be per province. FrieslandCampina has become active in the field of manure fermentation. There they said that they think they can manage to have manure fermentation at 1,000 farms by 2020. We have already subsidised a very large number of solar panels projects. I expect many more projects in this area to be eligible for funding this year and next year. We have been able to achieve all the objectives across the board. That is why the Energy Agreement Committee has come to a positive conclusion. It hasn't been easy at all. I've heard the story of Mrs. Ouwehand. From her point of view and given what she stands for with her group, I can imagine that. I have heard the reactions to biomass. I can imagine that this is the way to respond. If you build windmills that can produce for 20 or 25 years, it will help you for the whole period, but if you subsidise biomass, it will only help you for 8 years. Then that period is over and you don't have anything you can go on with. So it's a set of all kinds of measures that you can criticize. Towns off the coast are critical of the windmills at sea. There's criticism of the manure fermentation. There is criticism of biomass. There is criticism of the windmills on land. I predict that there will also be a lot of criticism when we start working with large parks of 400 or 500 hectares full of solar panels in the country. Let us realize that very well. The moment you talk about it in abstraction, you are in favour of it, but at the moment it becomes very concrete, all kinds of things are also discussed that allow people in the immediate vicinity to come to different conclusions. My position is that we have exploited all the opportunities that were available and that it was also necessary to exploit all these opportunities, because that was the only chance to do justice to both the European Union's energy directive and the government agreement and the energy agreement. It has always been complained that the Netherlands is lagging behind in Europe in terms of renewable energy, but we have ensured that this is no longer the case and that the Netherlands is heading in the direction of the leaders. We are going to take the position we want to take in Europe on this point. We believe that this is necessary for the management of climate change in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u176	In between, the Minister says that sunbathing would encounter as much resistance as wind farms. Does he say that on the basis of research or on the basis of existing knowledge? Or is it just a minister's idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u177	Mr Smaling says "just a minister's idea," but it is the idea of someone who has been working in public administration for 38 years. I spent 16 years on the board of a municipality, eight years on the board of a province and ten years in the Lower House and I have been a minister for almost 12 years. On the basis of my experience, I know that we are all in favour of good intentions, but that at some point these objectives must be taken into account. Then it gets very close to the people in a certain area. These people then say: we do agree with the main objectives, but we do not agree with what is happening near us. One time they don't agree with the gas extraction. Another time they disagree with windmills or solar panels. We should not think that the criticism we have received from those directly involved, and who are also very serious to take, remains completely out of the question when we talk about solar parks in the order of 400 to 500 hectares. They also have a major impact on an area. People are also going to look at: how are we affected in our environment and how do we feel about that? That's what you get with solar parks as well as with all the other plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u178	I can also read out my entire curriculum vitae before I get to the heart of the matter, but I will not do that. As far as Drenthe is concerned, 500 hectares in an area of 10,000 hectares is not that big at all. The people in that region are massively behind this alternative, massively. They're massive against that wind farm. So it doesn't make any sense to say here for a while: here people suffer from wind farms, there are sun meadows and there are something else. The point is that one is so much more accepted than the other. Then why does the Minister come up with such a general statement that does not recognize the essence of this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u179	Mr. Smaling is looking for confrontation. I would like to comment on all the points raised by the spokesmen. In general terms, I would like to point out that we should not pretend that everything is criticised by those directly involved and that there will be no criticism of large-scale solar parks. It will also be on the agenda. Why did I mention what I did on the administrative level? Mr Smaling said: is that just a Minister's idea? I would like to state that I have the right to have ideas about this on the basis of my own experience. I'm also here to do that sort of thing and to do them right. In large projects that are in the public interest, but affect people in their immediate vicinity, these people make different considerations, which can lead to resistance. That is also possible with solar parks. That's the theorem I posted. I am going to go into the park in Drenthe and what Mr Smaling and others have said about it. We are in the process of making that transition to renewable energy. This transition from fossil energy to renewable energy is very costly. A lot has to be set in motion for that. We have an existing infrastructure, which must be replaced by a new infrastructure. Of course it costs money. We are committed to making this transition in such a way that we get renewable energy, that there is security of supply and that costs are as low as possible. That is why we have the SDE+ scheme. With this regulation and everything that is being organized around it, we are looking for the costs to be as low as possible. I can do that. The cost of windmills at sea has already fallen dramatically. There was a project in which windmills at sea received €0.19 per kilowatt hour, including connection costs. Now we are including the connection costs below €0.07. So a lot has already happened at that point. As far as the solar parks are concerned, the price of the solar panels is going down. We are setting up manure fermentation on a large scale, precisely in order to ensure that the costs of it go down as well and that there is less subsidy to be given. We're working across the board to make sure we control the costs. At present, it can be foreseen that the cost per household for the transition will be at the highest point in the year 2023. Then these costs are in the order of €227 per household per year. These are the costs to be paid for renewable energy. That's a lot of money, we need to be aware of that. It is also unthinkable that we should be able to make this transition to renewable energy without having to pay the bill. Our job is to keep that account as low as possible. I think we are working on this successfully. The costs already incurred for renewable energy are offset by the fact that fossil energy costs are lower than expected. To date, there is no increase in the energy account for households on balance. This is going to happen in the years to come, with the highest amount I have just mentioned. The cabinet has made the irreversible transition from fossil to renewable energy, and we are also going to achieve all the objectives set by the EU, by the energy agreement and by the government agreement. In addition, we created a very detailed programme between 2013 and 2023. We have said exactly what measures we are going to implement. Then, for the period after that, the period until 2050, we indicated what should happen. We have been very specific about this. Where nearly 100% of the new cars that are being sold now rely on fossil energy, that should be 0% by the year 2035. Then all newly sold cars must be low-emission. That means they're either on hydrogen or on electricity. We can't let them emit anything else. We have included this ambition in the Energy Agenda. We have also included in the Energy Agenda that in 2050 all homes in the Netherlands must be removed from the gas. Now they're all on the gas and they all have to be off. This means that at a rate of 200,000 a year we have to get these homes off the gas. That is a huge task that we have taken on our shoulders, but it is in the Energy Agenda. What is also in the Energy Agenda is the following. We set up five large wind farms at sea when we decided it was the world's five largest parks until 2022. In the year 2023, the parks are all running. Every year we make commitments for those five parks. The Energy Agenda states that, following the five times 700 megawatts of the energy agreement, we are going to achieve seven times 1,000 megawatts of wind energy at sea. In this respect, too, the Energy Agenda is particularly concrete. Finally, in the Energy Agenda, we also indicate what we are using energy for. For every form of energy use, we are making a very concrete programme, together with the field, to ensure that we actually achieve the final goal of 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u180	I saw two coalition tigers jump up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u181	I hear the Minister telling us to get rid of the gas by 2050. I sometimes say it myself, but I think we should say: get rid of natural gas. In fact, hydrogen or biogas can still be used. Or am I completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u182	You've got it all right. The point is to get rid of the fossil gas, the combustion of which is a burden on the environment. Biogas is not included. If we can handle hydrogen gas in a responsible way, so that there is no pollution of the environment throughout the chain, then that is certainly possible. It is good that Mr Bosman is also aware of this. It is in the Energy Agenda: this must be done in the year 2050. Imagine that our successors must ensure that 200,000 houses a year go off the gas. That's a really big job. We have very detailed plans for the period up to 2023. If we have fully implemented this plan, also in accordance with the satisfaction of the Committee on Security and Cooperation, then we will have the Energy Agenda for the next period, in which further decisions are taken and the direction has been indicated. This cabinet is very determined on the transition to renewable energy and is consistently working in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u183	Is the Minister aware of the calculations made by the financial consultancy Bloomberg, which states that the emission-free car, as the Minister has just described, will be cheaper in 2022 than the car with an internal combustion engine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u184	No. If that worked, I'm glad. The difference between Mr Vos and me regarding the electric car is not that we have to move towards a 100% emission-free car. Both Mr Vos and I are concerned about emission-free. Whether that car is electric or using hydrogen in a responsible way doesn't matter to us, as long as it's emission-free. Mr Vos wants us to go from almost 100% fossil to 0% fossil in new cars over a period of eight years. I think that's really unfeasible. It's a fine goal, but I think it's unfeasible. I think it is a very ambitious objective to achieve this in the period up to 2035, and that is the ambition of this cabinet. We think that's possible. If developments can speed it up and we are moving in the right direction, I am very happy, but there is still a lot to be done to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u185	The consulting firm I referred to, Bloomberg, is a renowned financial consultancy firm from the United States. The head of it has also become a very nice politician. I would ask the Minister to take that report when he has the time, or that the people in his department take that report, because it is quite well documented that in 2022 the cost of that car will be below that of the fossil car. The question then is, of course, whether we should not take this into account in our forecasts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u186	We should welcome those kinds of optimistic calculations, especially if they come from renowned institutions and are well-founded. We need that kind of thing, also to realize what the cabinet wants, namely by 2035 going from 100% fossil to 0% fossil. That's a huge transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u187	The task is enormous and, in fact, we have to note that it has been strengthened since the Energy Agenda was drawn up. I do have a question for the Minister. I find the division into different tasks per functionality very useful, because for electricity there are many more and easier alternatives than for transport, for example. Yet we are not getting anywhere on that 95% reduction of CO in 2050, but we are stuck at 80%. We already know that's not enough. Then how does the Minister deal with that? Are we not showing an image that is not really sufficiently ambitious, if we already know that more will be needed than that 80% reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u188	Insufficient ambition? If you look at what we've already done and what we're doing now, we're very, very ambitious. Mrs Van Veldhoven is of course right. The story is always: for 2050 80% to 95%. Mrs Van Veldhoven says: if you want to get that 2 ̊C limit, and especially if you want to get the 1.5 ̊C limit, you're going to have to get closer to 95% than the 80%. The European Union will translate exactly how that is going to work. It is appropriate to ensure, on behalf of the Member States of the European Union, that the commitments entered into in Paris are properly translated into the countries concerned. So we will have targets for 2030, 2040 and 2050. They will be completed, and we will have to adapt our policies accordingly. I am not going to fight Mrs Van Veldhoven over 80% or 95%. It must be very clear what we should ultimately come up with. That's controlling the climate problem, 2 C, 1.5 C. This must be translated into, in particular, the removal of the cause of the climate problem, the CO. I will come back to the other objectives that remain, but that will be further developed in a European context and we will also be faithfully translating them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u189	I welcome the Minister's reflection. We need to realise together that it may not be the ambition of the Energy Agenda that we are ambitious enough, because we are making great strides, but there is really a lot to be done. We all have to realise that this is about 80% and that we are therefore at the bottom of what will be needed, and probably even lower than what will be needed. It is important that we realise this at the start of such a preview of a whole new period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u190	Yes. I would like to make this point. Now when I talk about 80% or 95% in the year 2050, I don't get into a fight with anyone. That is not a problem, but then I have to translate it into concrete measures. At some point, those measures become more and more concrete and you get things in your environment that you don't want. There will be resistance to that. That's what we're gonna get. If we continue to strengthen the objectives and strengthen them further, we will need to take further action and speed up the pace. Then it is the art not to get stuck in those good intentions and goals, but to really get it done in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u191	I said in my contribution that the IPCC calculated that we would hardly have a serious climate problem right now if all government official plans had been implemented. That is exactly what the Minister is suggesting, but we are already on the low side of the long-term plans. We know 100% isn't usually reached, and 80% isn't. Shouldn't you be honest and aim a little higher? In the perspective of GroenLinks, we are now moving the problem forward because it is so difficult now and because there is so much resistance now, but everything that we are moving forward now needs to move future generations even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u192	I'm not moving anything forward. I am not going to achieve 80% of the target. I'm going to achieve 100% of the target. I'll bet on it. That's what I do when I'm facing great resistance. I understand very well that the aldermen of the coastal communities, who see these windmills in the distance, respond to this. I also understand that there is resistance when people get windmills in their surroundings or in their part of the IJsselmeer, but in the end it is my responsibility to achieve the important goals that need to be met in a responsible way. We have legal procedures for that. Those legal procedures must be followed carefully. We need to do the right environmental studies. We need to get the agreements on participation and participation implemented. We will also have to continue to work on the basis of our support. However, we must not only have long-term objectives. If they are to be realized, if we translate them into practice and if we stand with our feet in the mud, we must also keep our backs straight. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u193	I agree with the Minister that you need to reduce fossil consumption. I'd like to do that faster, with clearer intermediate goals. But should you at the same time reduce fossil extraction in the Netherlands at the same rate, so very quickly? I do not see any evidence of this in the Energy Agenda. If you think that fossil consumption has to go down in order to reach the Paris climate agreement, you must also reduce fossil extraction to zero very quickly. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u194	We've already halved the fossil extraction compared to the year before the cabinet took office. Especially in Groningen we are now at less than half. So we've already done that. None of what I'm doing now can go faster. I can't realize those five largest wind farms at sea in the world any faster than I do now. We're really at the highest level. Mrs Van Tongeren sees how difficult the discussions on land winds are and what high tone is being chosen here in the debate. Even faster than that is actually not possible. We want 1,000 manure digesters by 2020. I don't know how to do that any faster. I would also like to draw attention to the amounts we are spending to enable the transition to renewable energy. I mean, of course, the amounts we commit, because if we commit a subsidy, that money will not be given suddenly. No, if you actually produce electricity over the years, you get a grant for it. But the amounts that we are making for this are rising rapidly. I expect to make commitments of EUR 12 billion this year. So I think I am going very far to ensure that we actually achieve 100% of the objectives we have. I think it is of the utmost importance that we do not ask too many people, that we do not imagine that it can be too little, that we make agreements with each other about what we want to do and that we can actually do it. I can't do that alone. I need the room for that, too. So far I have received a great deal of support for this from the Chamber. I am grateful to her for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u195	The Minister says nothing I do can go faster. I thought the coal plants could just be shut down tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u196	In the energy agreement, we agreed that we would close five coal plants out of the ten coal plants we have in the Netherlands. We're gonna make that deal. In this cabinet period, five out of ten coal-fired power stations are closed down. There is more to be said about coal plants. However, I think it would be better if I did so when I got there in my speech. I don't think it's a good idea to anticipate that in the event of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u197	I know, Mrs Dik, that you are coming forward for the first time, but I was actually going to suggest that we first take a look at what the Minister is doing in terms of content, and that we are going to do the interruptions by subject. Is that okay with you, Mrs. Fat?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u198	The Minister says, "Nothing can go faster." In any case, I would like to say that there is something that can be done more quickly, namely the closure of coal power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u199	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u200	As a result, less CO is emitted and climate targets are closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u201	In my speech on this point, I will say that I do not think that is the case with Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u202	I suggest that every time the Minister has completed a subject, Members are given the opportunity to interrupt. Good. That's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u203	In addition to the objectives we have now discussed, we have another very important objective, namely to save 1.5% of energy per year. That is a very ambitious objective. It has been established by the Committee on Guarantee that we are going to achieve that objective. And it's not just about the 1.5%, because we've also agreed on 100 petajoules of energy savings. This is a huge amount of energy that is similar to the energy consumption of 5 million households. This amount of energy needs to be saved again, in part with houses, with rental homes, with properties for sale. Another part of this energy needs to be saved in industry. I can assure Members that it is also very difficult to achieve this. But we've filled it all out with measures. It wrings and it hurts, but we did it anyway. This part also applies: we are doing it as quickly as we can at the moment. I think it is important at the moment that the Chamber realizes that. I haven't stepped on the brakes at any time. I've been on the verge of carrying out the agreements we've made. I have already gone into the energy agreement, and I have already mentioned a number of things in that energy agreement for the period from 2023 to 2050. Let me leave it at that as far as the energy agreement is concerned. I will come back later to the various specific points raised by the spokesmen. I'll do that by the spokesperson. It might be good if I start with the situation in Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u204	Minister, you closed a block. Then Mrs. Van Veldhoven thought, "Come on, I'm gonna interrupt."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u205	I thought this is a good time, Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the 100 petajoules. An important part of this, 9 petajoules, would be completed by the energy-intensive industry, which, like all the other parties in that energy agreement, has promised to make an additional contribution. In the autumn we had another discussion with the Minister because it seemed that that would not be possible. Then the Minister said: I am prepared to take legal measures if necessary. I read in a letter that the Minister is now convinced that all this is going to work. What information has the Minister convinced that this legal guarantee is no longer necessary? Or does the Minister still think that legal guarantee is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u206	I'm gonna take care of it legally. So I'm going to legally arrange for that 9 petajoules savings to be made. We know which companies are gonna make it. We know how much energy savings are needed for this. This will therefore also be established per company. However, during the period in which we are in the process of doing so, there will of course continue to be consultation with the representatives of the companies and the organisations of the companies. We'll see if any new things come forward, but I'll make sure that this savings of 9 petajoules, part of the 100 petajoules, are made. And I am working on the necessary measure to enforce that also per company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u207	That's nice. All parties, of course, ask to make that contribution. Then it is good to agree with these companies as well. This must, of course, be done in dialogue; this is always important. When will the Chamber hear more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u208	I'm busy working it out now. As soon as it wears off, it'll come to the Chamber. We'll also have a consultation on it. There's a lot of work going on right now. The room will get it as soon as possible. I'm not gonna stop anything in that regard either. I believe that this 9 petajoule is part of the agreement in the energy agreement. Everyone's having trouble meeting. This also applies to Mrs Van Veldhoven. Her party has agreed to the energy agreement, but she says: you should actually close not five but ten coal plants. I am sticking to the energy agreement in that regard. I do so in terms of wind at sea, wind on land, biomass, coal plants and energy saving. I'm sticking to the energy agreement across the board. Because I do so and I appeal to others, the Committee on Guarantee has noted that the 2020 and 2023 targets are within reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u209	Next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u210	That's Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u211	Mr President, the Minister addressed me directly. Like me, he knows very well that I made a comment right from the start on the coal plants. It seems so fair to mark that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u212	I shall go into the coal-fired power stations in a moment. I'll get to Drenthe first. I have already said that the translation of global climate objectives into concrete renewable energy projects into people's immediate living environment is becoming increasingly painful as we get closer to those people. I understand very well that, even if you are motivated to stop climate change and understand that we need to move towards sustainable energy, you make a different assessment than the one we make here when you see what comes into your immediate environment and what impact it has on your environment, life and home. Or let me talk about myself: then the consideration I make here. If we translate our policy into concrete projects, I fully understand that it leads to the conclusion for a lot of people in Drenthe, Friesland, Zuid-Holland, Groningen or Overijssel that they do not want that in their immediate surroundings. Quite specifically with regard to land-based wind energy, what I then have to do is to ensure that the agreements made by nature and environmental organisations with the energy sector, the windmill sector, on participation and profit from it, are respected. That's what happens in Drenthe. There the initiators make €200,000 per year available. The province makes €180,000 per year available for a number of years. So there is €380,000 per year available to do things in that area. There they also love to talk to the people about how it can best be filled in. Those are the agreements we made on that. We're gonna follow up on that, too. The whole procedure for reaching a final decision on such a wind farm is a long and careful procedure, in which there is a lot of consultation, study, elaboration and participation. We started there in 2009. Then came the first report for that wind farm. This was for the area designated by the provincial government as an area for windmills. In 2011 we started the whole procedure to arrive at a spatial decision. That is what we have done by establishing the report Scope and Detail, the starting point for the environmental impact assessment. From that moment on, with some delays in order to figure out and discuss additional things, we have worked very consistently towards a decision that we made first in concept and finally, in September 2016. So that decision was made at that time. After that, people had the opportunity to go to the Council of State. This has happened in a number of cases. When that period was also over, a motion was tabled at a certain point in time to say that a period of reflection had to be included. The whole period in which I could do something, which started in 2009 and ended in September 2016, was already over. Then that's done. It will then be submitted to the Council of State and the decision of the Council of State will have to be awaited. The Group of the Party of Labour has said: you must do justice to that period until the Council of State ruling; in that period you must not take irreversible steps. That verdict is expected in May. I've read the date May 18th somewhere. The PvdA group meant not to start the construction of the wind farm. So that's not gonna happen. We'll see what the Council of State's ruling comes up with. If that statement by the Council of State maintains the decision, then that wind farm can be built. That's procedure we have in the law. I've been kept to that, too. Those who come up with plans for such a thing, as the initiators have now done, are also entitled to a proper government and to proper treatment by the government. They come with an initiative within a designated area. They want this initiative to be assessed. They supply material for that. An E.R. is being created. There's a say in the matter. There is a whole decision-making procedure. Then it is also reasonable to consider as a government that procedure, after the Council of State has also expressed its opinion, to be terminated. The construction of the wind farm is therefore on the agenda. If the Council of State decides that the wind farm cannot be built, the wind farm cannot be built. But the space I had to do things was used to the full between 2009 and 2016. Our work on this was completed in September. The case was then referred to the Council of State. I will go into further developments in the field of solar energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u213	This seems to me to be the time to allow Mr Smaling an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u214	The Minister mentioned the word "carefully" at the beginning of his exhibition. I am stuck on that, because I can remind the initiators of a letter from 2010 from one of the minister's predecessors. It states that the development of such a wind farm must meet a number of conditions. One of them was the creation of support. In the pieces of Joop Bouma in Trouw we have read that in the early days all of this took place quite secretly and that the population was finally informed of a plan that was already there. I think that is one of the reasons why things went so wrong there. I'd like to ask the Minister about this. You can say that all the procedures have gone through, but it's just a tragedy how that went there and what it's like now. You can't deny that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u215	I don't know about anything that would have happened secretly. In any case, I have done nothing secretly during this period. Everything's been communicated. Everything's public. Everyone's invited to think along. I've been in the area. I've talked to the people in all the places in the area. There have been conversations at kitchen tables. There's been some information nights. There's been talk to drivers. During this period, we have gone through this whole procedure in complete transparency and in accordance with the rules. That is also necessary when you talk about these big projects, in which hundreds of millions have to be invested. Then you must act carefully according to the rules we have established with each other. In this cabinet period, nothing secretly happened. As far as I know my predecessors, they will have done nothing secretly. I don't think the Chamber would have accepted that either. We were convinced that windmills had to come on land and at sea. We have agreed to this with the IPO, with all the provinces together. We have agreed with each province exactly how many windmills had to come into its area. We then had the provinces themselves point out the areas where those windmills should be. Then we went through the procedure in a proper way. That's how it happened. There's really nothing secret about it. Nor is it true that all kinds of things have gone wrong. The agreements made between nature and environmental organisations and the wind sector on how to deal with participation, involvement of the people and compensation of the people have all been applied neatly here. That too went well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u216	I don't want to say that the Minister has done anything secretly. I am concerned that, in the initial phase of this project, these plans were in fact sneaked out by the initiative. There was just a plan. The citizens of that region were not familiar with that. This has led to the enormous commotion in that region, which the Minister was faced with when he became responsible for this. At some point, following the motion of the Chamber, he appointed Mr Oterdom as the area coordinator. Mr Oterdom's conclusions were not mild, but the Minister did nothing about them. He just moved on to the formal process. There is talk of participation and support, but the basis has never been established there, even though the Minister sends the Chamber an environmental management letter stating that we are going to do everything together on the basis of trust and customization and many more beautiful things. That is what needs to be done, and that is what the Environment Act, which Minister Schultz, who does carry out motions, is working hard on. The Minister may end the whirlwind that all procedures have gone through, but he's not blind, is he? He just sees what this is doing in that area, doesn't he? And I'm not even talking about the LOFAR area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u217	Mr. Smaling first spoke of "secret" and now he speaks of "sneaked." In all the research I've done in the files for the past four years, I haven't seen anything done secretly or in secret. I think those who carried responsibility in other places and in my place have all tried to do their job properly. So I'm not taking over those words in any way. As far as acceptance is concerned, if people in the environment don't want something, it can't be that it's off the job by definition. The people in the immediate vicinity make their own decision. They have their own interests, what they rightly attach to and what they stand for. It is understandable that they allow it to outweigh the general interest, but we are faced with the situation that we have a climate problem, that we have agreed in Paris, that the European Union has translated those agreements and that we have done so in the government agreement and the energy agreement. We must therefore ensure that this is done in practice in a responsible way. This indeed means that you are working on a park in Groningen, that you are now working on a park in Friesland in the northeast part of the IJsselmeer and that you are also working on a park in Drenthe. This also plays in all other provinces. It is necessary for us to do this every time correctly and according to the rules, because we are engaged in an EIA and with participation and because we are finally seeing the matter before the Council of State. That's what we did. It's not like I'm running into procedures. I have a responsibility to ensure that I correctly apply what we have laid down with each other in laws and regulations. This means that I must be open to what comes to me, but ultimately I have the responsibility not to stick to the local consideration and also to see the general interest and consideration that needs to be made at a somewhat higher level of aggregation. Then I have to see if our translation of that higher objective can be achieved in a responsible way. With regard to Drenthe, I have come to the conclusion, on the basis of the opinions I have received, that this park can be realized in a responsible manner, on the basis of the environmental impact assessment that has been carried out and on the basis of the opinions I have received. Before that, I had first established that a covenant was concluded between the initiators and ASTRON, that they believe that in a good way justice can be done to their common interests and that the double line at Drouwenermond has gone off and I had also arranged some things regarding lighting. In this way, I have come to the conclusion that this could lead to this decision in a responsible way. That has now been submitted to the Council of State. We shall await the conclusion reached by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u218	The Minister recalled that there was a contribution from the initiators and from the province to invest in the area. That's good, but I wonder if that's enough. I would just like to refer to the amendment by the Christian Union and the CDA to the Environment Act to organise participation and compensation in such projects. There is investment in the area, but what does people notice personally? Do they receive compensation for their energy bills, for example? Can they participate in the wind projects? I think that's what it takes to get the support. That is why we supported Mr Smaling's and Mr Vos' motion. We would like to hear from the Minister and expect greater commitment. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u219	We cannot repeat history. In the past we have had to say at some point: we are going to do something about the climate problem, we are going to make agreements about it, we are going to realize windmills on land, we are going to do that in all provinces, we are going to agree with the provinces that they are going to identify in which areas they can do that and we are also going to agree on how much megawatts of wind energy they are going to achieve. That's history. We have also laid down in procedures, rules and laws how to process an application and how to arrive at a responsible decision in the end. Furthermore, in an agreement between nature and environmental organisations and the wind sector, we have set out what promoters should do in terms of compensation and participation. This has all been applied to this project. Now, of course, it is quite conceivable that we should place other emphasis on the future, on the basis of experiences we have gained in recent years. I myself did so in the Energy Agenda. I have said that the Energy Agenda for future projects should give us a greater lead in the area. This means that there should also be the possibility of comparing different forms of renewable energy and making choices in the area. There is no way that it will end up there in that area. In addition to the responsibility that will have to be taken into account in the area, there is also a national responsibility which I must assume. There is also a responsibility of the European Union because of the Treaty of Paris. So there are always other things that play along. I believe that the agreements and lines we have included in the Energy Agenda should be applied to new projects. However, we cannot go back to a procedure that started in 2009 on the basis of insights for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u220	My plea is not to repeat the procedure either. That is not why I supported that motion. I supported this motion because I think it is important that participation and compensation be better anchored. There is nothing to prevent the Minister from talking to the initiators about this participation and compensation. There is a code of conduct for the wind sector, but this project does not apply in full. This allows people to get compensation, participate and have a lower energy bill. I ask the Minister to talk to the initiators about noticeable financial compensation and participation for residents. That is what needs to be done, because now the desires and burdens are not fairly divided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u221	Mrs Dik-Faber says that the code of conduct has not been correctly applied in this case. I was of the opinion that this is the case. Especially in the light of what Mrs Dik-Faber says, I would like to look at that again. If I come to the same conclusion as she has, I will see if there is any need for further consultation by me. In any case, I have the time to do so until the Council of State has given its ruling. I am now telling her that I am convinced that the code of conduct has been properly applied. An amount of €200,000 per year has been promised. That is in line with the code of conduct. The €180,000 that the province has laid in this process leads to the total amount of €380,000 per year. I would very much like to see people in the area under the leadership of the province discussed how this can best be translated into concrete terms. This could be about lower taxes, a lower energy bill or participation. That can be discussed with the people in the area. So my point is that the code of conduct has been applied, that the amount is available per year and that we should discuss with the people exactly how we are going to implement it. However, on the basis of Mrs Dik-Faber's comment, I will check whether it is different from what I have in mind. In that case, I'll see what I can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u222	The Minister continues his speech. As much as the Chamber appreciates his comprehensive reply, I would like to tell him that it is appreciated if it could be more compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u223	Mr Smaling said that a large-scale solar park could replace the wind farm in Drenthe. Let me first say that the wind farm in Drenthe is the translation into Drenthe of the appointment I made with Drenthe. I am therefore already done with this whole process, because my work has been completed since September of last year. The appointment I made with Drenthe is just as important as the appointment I made with Groningen, with Friesland and with all the other provinces. It is not so that we can now say: that appointment has been made, but we are going to look at it and see if it can be filled in in a different way with wind, but perhaps with sun. We have made very detailed agreements in the energy agreement. They were needed to achieve the ambitious objective. This is part of that, too. If I say in Drenthe that we can deviate from the agreement, withdraw the whole plan and start over, as Mrs Mulder says, what story do I have in Groningen or Friesland? What about a properly functioning and operating government? If I expect business to take the initiative and invest and if we are working on something for six or seven years and there is a decision at some point, but I withdraw that decision and start something new, how does it work for the investment climate and for the reliability of the government? If we go into such a process, we must go through the rules we have established with each other carefully. In the end, we must take the test of the Council of State and wait. Then we can draw the final conclusion. The withdrawal of such a plan seems to me to be a unrealistic approach. It also seems to me to be an approach that will mean that we will not be able to achieve the objectives we have agreed on in relation to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u224	Are you at the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u225	No, I'm gonna go back to the solar park.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u226	Then you'd better finish it. That's what we just agreed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u227	It is therefore a question of producing the same amount of electricity. A solar park requires 446 hectares compared to the wind farm. You have a certain capacity at a solar park and you have a certain capacity at a wind farm. The amount of electricity produced by the wind farm plan currently at the Council of State is equal to the amount of electricity produced from a solar park of 446 hectares. If you want to realize a solar park with a size of 446 hectares, that plan will have to be implemented first. So you must have 446 hectares of land in your possession or you must have made arrangements with owners. The surface must be just right for such a park. You're also gonna have to work it out technically. I think it is very ambitious to expect that the plan and preparations for an initiative for a solar park of this size in Drenthe will be ready to proceed within one year. But let's assume for a moment that we have one year. If you want to get that plan through the spatial procedure, at least an EIA is needed. You also need to start an area process and involve people in it. It all needs to be figured out. Then you have to apply the rules to such a plan. I think it is very ambitious to try to achieve this within a period of two or three years. Such a plan can, if realistic, be completed at the earliest possible stage in a period of three to four years in terms of licensing and spatial decision-making. I say we've been working on the wind farm since 2009. That's an eight-year period. So here I am saying that at the earliest possible time, perhaps in a period of three or four years. A period of three or four years means that the contribution to the 2020 target will not be met. In that case, therefore, I leave two objectives to be desired. In the first place I release my appointment with the province of Drenthe over wind on land. Secondly, I will also release the contribution to the 14% for 2020. If I do what Mrs Mulder says and therefore withdraw the whole plan and start something new, I have to look at where I end up. But I'm sure the two things I just mentioned slipped between my fingers. My conclusion is this. I am pleased that there are initiatives for large-scale wind farms. I would like to talk to the initiators about how this can be achieved and how different parties can contribute to it. It will take a long time to achieve this, but that is good, because there is still a lot to be done in the future. We need solar energy, like wind energy and other forms of renewable energy. If, in addition to a wind farm in Drenthe, solar parks can also contribute, we will be able to use them very well in the future. I would like to comment on two more things in relation to this point, starting with the costs. The prices of solar panels have fallen in recent years. It makes solar parks cheaper. From what I've seen in my calculations, I think a solar park in Drenthe is more expensive in the current situation, possibly even considerably more expensive than a wind farm. That will be part of the preparation of the plan. Land must be acquired, or agreements must be made with farmers and other landowners. The plan must be developed technically. We need to look at how prices are developing in the meantime. Eventually, we'll see the cost of the plan. At present, our estimate is that wind on land requires a maximum of 7.5 cents per kilowatt hour. We have the impression that solar parks will require a maximum of 12.5 cents per kilowatt hour. That's considerably more. If large scale and innovation can reduce costs, this is a good thing. This will only benefit us in the future. My final comment on this point concerns ASTRON's radio telescope. There is a covenant between the initiators and ASTRON. They have both shown their interests and said: if we implement them in this way, we can do justice to both our interests with the plan for the wind farm that is now at the Council of State. So ASTRON and the initiators made an appointment. I don't know about the effects of 445 hectares of solar panels on ASTRON's LOFAR project, but I can imagine an effect. This will have to be examined in greater detail, including in the context of the procedure to be followed. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that the procedure can be followed if a concrete plan is presented. We will, but that will happen in the longer term. It cannot replace the windmill plan that is now in the hands of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u228	In one of the 122 debates I spoke to Minister Kamp once about the example of an alderman with us in the North of the Netherlands, IJzebrand Rijzebol from Delfzijl. When he got the wind, he sat around the table with all the village councils and said: this is my job, how are we going to do this? At that time, a fair distribution of desires and burdens was considered. Of course, you never get everyone to go with you, but this approach should also have been followed in the Veenkoloniën. That didn't happen. However, several mistakes have been made, to which colleagues have already referred. The Minister says he's done everything right. We dispute that in the Chamber, just like the people in the area. Because of the total lack of support, whole groups are set up against each other and everyone is no longer able to get along well through one door. That's a big loss for everyone in Drenthe. No one was waiting for this, and yet it happened. You can only continue in this way because of long-term objectives, do not want to look at an intermediate solution with a combination of wind and solar energy and do not want to look at additional solutions. I also realize that this will take a few years, but some parts of the solar parks may be possible sooner. The company that has now presented itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u229	This isn't an interruption. This is a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u230	Yeah, but I'm gonna have to run it by the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u231	An interruption is short and flashy. This is a whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u232	Yes, but it is very important that the Minister is aware of the problems that are going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u233	I would like to read it to you: an interruption is a brief remark or question without an introduction. Well, we're pretty different from that in general, but this is really quite a reflection. You can't do that. So what's your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u234	My point is: does the Minister still want to give room for a combination of wind and sun instead of all the planned windmills in the Veenkoloniën?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u235	Mrs Mulder says that several mistakes have been made. I don't know what she's talking about. I know that during my period, I have been very transparent and very conscientious in ensuring that everything we have agreed on this type of project leads to decision-making in a responsible way. I have done so very accurately and carefully. It is a process that I am responsible for from November 2012, a process that started in 2009 and 2011. I didn't find any indication that my predecessors would have done something that wasn't right in those years. With regard to working with such an application, the following. We've agreed on how to do that. We have agreed that there is an agreement between the sector and nature and environmental organisations on participation and compensation. We've set out how to get to an E.R. We have agreed that we must first take a draft decision and then take a decision, including formal participation with a view and then the Council of State. Everything we've recorded about that, I've done. I didn't put that under time pressure. What is ultimately used in time is a period of six to eight years. A new plan where we have to start all over again, could be in three or years. I am very optimistic about that. I think we have come to a very careful decision. At some point, our role has also been played out. Then we've gone through that whole process, and then there's that decision. Then the Council of State looks at it and we will have to wait and see. If I am asked to withdraw that decision that we have been working on for six to eight years, and to start with something else that you have to wait and see what comes out of it and when, I am not prepared to do so. I don't think it's responsible to do that. If I did, I would violate the agreements made with the province of Drenthe and with all the provinces, I would violate the agreements made in the government agreement, I would violate the agreements made in the energy agreement, I would damage the investment climate in the Netherlands, I would not behave properly as a government leader towards initiators and I would set a precedent for other provinces. I don't think I can do that in a responsible way. If you are talking about making mistakes, Mrs Mulder, perhaps you are making a mistake by saying that we should withdraw that whole plan and then we should start again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u236	Just before Christmas, we supported a motion aimed at coming to our senses. In his letter, the Minister explained why he could not do so in practical terms, namely because it is still with the Council of State. So then retracting is the only other possibility where it comes to the motion. I wonder how the Minister looks at that further. All those groups that have said yes here just before Christmas should now also show balls.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u237	The way I look at that, I just said. I'm not going to repeat that. If you did what Mrs. Mulder suggested, you'd make a serious mistake. Mrs Mulder should ask herself whether she wants me to make that mistake. She then referred to the motion which was adopted. A motion was adopted by the Chamber in December of last year stating that there should be a reflection and alternatives. The reflection has taken place. I have finally come to the conclusion that no irreversible steps need to be taken before there is a ruling from the Council of State. Therefore, the construction of the wind farm will not begin. We will await the ruling of the Council of State. I am also willing to look at alternatives, but I am not prepared to allow those initiatives to be anything other than an addition to the plan that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u238	This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u239	I'm not prepared to let anything that I don't know if it's gonna work out replace anything that I've made hard agreements about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u240	It's clear again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u241	The period of reflection has not yet led to a better knowledge of the possibilities of sunshine. It's four hundred-and-a-half acres out of a total of almost 100,000 hectares. I was just talking about 10,000 acres, but the area is almost 100,000 acres. So I've also made a mistake at my own disadvantage. The proposal is to put those four hundred-and-a-half acres into small clusters, so that you stay below the level for which the EIA obligation applies and you can turn your pace. The company that has made a bid to lay the lawn can go for 8.7 cents. That is quite different from the 12.5 cents that the minister mentions and which is probably linked to the SDE+ number that has been raised for the sun. So there are just a number of developments that I now hear the Minister has not received. So my question is also whether he is prepared to include things I mention in his further considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u242	I got it all. Mr Smaling may be convinced of that. I know exactly what's going to happen in the area. I also know that if we want to use 446 hectares of agricultural land to put solar panels on it, it is a major intervention in the area. I believe that this should be the subject of an environmental impact assessment. I have no desire to divide this into smaller projects without doing an environmental impact assessment. There must also be a proper environmental impact assessment for a wind farm. When it comes to the injection of production water in Twente, I also want to have a proper environmental impact assessment. If there's 446 hectares of land to be covered with solar panels, I want it, too. I want to know what effects that has and how those effects should be assessed. It can be said that it can be built for 8.7 cents, but I would like to see a plan showing that. It must be shown that the land is to be purchased for that amount, that the land is available because it is owned or because it has been agreed with the owners for a fee. In the end, the whole plan will have to be assessed. Now all I have is a preliminary assessment of that plan. That preliminary assessment shows that a number of assumptions are optimistic to very optimistic and that a number of things still need to be worked out. So we can't say yet that it can be at the same price as a wind farm. I think that this is a serious initiative that should also be taken seriously, including in the procedure. I hope that this can be done in addition, but it cannot replace a plan that has already gone through the procedure, on which a final decision has been taken and which is currently before the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u243	The Minister shows that he is not aware of this plan at all. If you claim that you have had a period of reflection, when you have not even taken note of the main plan that lies ahead, then I am not happy with it. 400 hectares is 2 by 2 kilometers, in an area of 100,000 hectares. It's a huge area...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u244	This is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u245	Yeah, sorry. The idea is that if you put it in small clusters, the municipal responsibility may replace the EIA obligation. This group tries to go through the procedures in such a way within a year. My question is once again to look at this and appreciate it. I see now that there is an information deficit with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u246	If you like, Mr. Smaling, you can offer the plan to the minister via the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u247	Why would Mr Smaling suggest that I have not taken note of a plan and that I do not know what I am talking about? Mr Smaling knows that I do and that I make sure that I have been informed. We had this plan passed on to CE Delft. That's what I got the report on. I've seen where the possibilities are in the plan. I also saw where the difficulties lie in the plan. I think there's still a lot to do. I think it is very optimistic to say that we need a year before a realistic plan can be presented that can be taken in procedure. Then for those 446 hectares, you must have similarities with the landowners, in whatever form. Furthermore, the entire technical impact must be sufficient. I think I'm very optimistic, also considering the assessment of the plan. I have taken note not only of the plan but also of the assessment of the plan. It's very optimistic to think it could come to this in a year. But if it comes to that in a year, the spatial procedure must also be followed. It lasts two to three years. I have already said to Mr Smaling that I do not want such a large-scale plan, even if it is spread over a large area, without carrying out an environmental impact assessment. I think an environmental impact assessment is just part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u248	Of course, I've been listening. I have the impression that you are going to talk about the coal power stations and a number of individual points. Are you sure you're through this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u249	Let us hope that this is the way it is going, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u250	Overall hilarity is your share. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u251	The coal-fired power stations are covered by the energy agreement. There's been an agreement on that. Some thought ten should close and others didn't think one should close. In the end, all parties agreed that five out of ten coal plants would close. Then the Urgenda judgment came and it was said: by 2020 you have to emit 25% less CO than in 1990. We took into account the possibility that we would have to take additional measures to achieve that 25% and that it would require more than five coal plants to close down. We figured that out further. We've looked at what we've all done in the field of CO reduction. We also looked at what effect it would have if we were to comply with the energy agreement. We then considered whether all our plans for implementing the energy agreement would lead us to achieve the 14% and 16% targets. According to the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology, this is the case. We have translated that 14% and 16% into CO emissions. Combining the latest figures shows that we are going to achieve this 25% CO reduction by 2020 compared to 1990. Then the question remains whether you want to shut down additional coal power stations. We must realise that the last five coal plants in the Netherlands are among the 10% best coal plants in all of Europe. These are the coal-fired power stations where most of the energy is extracted from coal and where the least CO emissions per amount of energy take place. We must realise that the three newest coal plants are the very best in Europe in terms of their yield. There are no better coal plants than those coal plants. If you want to achieve CO emissions in Europe through the closure of coal plants, then it is very sensible to make European agreements on this. The oldest and the worst coal-fired power stations must be closed first, but the best coal-fired power stations must be closed later. If you do it differently and you close those coal power stations in the Netherlands, it has two effects. First of all, there has to be electricity. This electricity is then generated by fossil fuels in a different way. It could be natural gas in the Netherlands, natural gas in Germany, lignite in Germany or coal in Germany. In any case, replacement electricity must be produced. This also results in CO emissions. We have also set up an ETS system in Europe. This means that a certain amount of CO may be emitted in Europe as a whole. That amount decreases every year, and we need to stay within that reduced amount. In the future, this will be difficult, as far as I am concerned as soon as possible. If we in the Netherlands are going to do extra things in the area of CO-emission reduction, then that will give room for other countries to do more. Other countries will be given more space to emit CO, and extra electricity will have to come from other countries or be produced in the Netherlands, which also requires fossil fuel. That is why I come to the conclusion that it is not wise to decide now that, by way of derogation from the energy agreement, more than five coal plants should be closed in the Netherlands. However, it is necessary that we achieve this 25% reduction by 2020. We have now calculated that we will achieve it, but we will have to continue to follow it between now and 2020. If it turns out that things aren't going well, that things aren't going as we expected, we're going to have to take action. In addition, a 90's coal power station, in particular the Hemweg power station in Amsterdam, will have to come into the picture, because we have to carry out the Urgenda sentence. I will also do my best, both in consultation with neighbouring Germany and in consultation with the North-West European region and within the European Union, to agree with each other on the phasing-out of coal-fired power stations. We must do so in such a way that we achieve the CO effect we are aiming at and tackle the most polluting coal plants, which emit most CO, first. I said we're gonna get that 25% out of the Urgenda sentence. If we implement the ROAD project, CCS storage, and also convert the phosphate reduction in dairy farming, which has now been decided, into CO, it is even possible that in the end we are still above 25%. I think this is a good thing, because we will have to move forward in the period after that. CO emissions will have to be reduced further. This is true of coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u252	The great thing about ETS is that it's technology-neutral. Each country can decide for itself how it makes its reduction. One country does this with expensive measures and the other opts for cheap measures. It's all having an effect. If you buy the rights, there can just be less expulsion. I have a question about achieving the Urgenda objective. For the discussion of coal-fired power stations, the Minister bases himself on the Frontier Report. For his argument that the CO reduction is in line with the Urgenda objective, he bases himself on an ECN report. But there is a very big difference. This concerns imports of electricity. If you follow the Frontier report, you only get to 17% CO reduction and not to the 23% the Minister is talking about. Can he explain that? Why does he use one report in one case and the other report in the other, where there is such a big difference in electricity imports? This has a major impact on emissions in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u253	I don't shop in reports or in settings. When we are dealing with the energy agreement, we let ECN pass on the matter. When I am working on that 9 petajoule extra energy saving by the energy-intensive industry, the calculations are made by ECN. When it comes to the elaboration of the Urgenda judgment and the calculation of the impact of the energy agreement, I also base myself on ECN. I consistently turn on ECN for the energy agreement. That's where the expertise is. I think ECN is doing a great deal of good in terms of content. Mrs Van Veldhoven says: if you remove the ETS rights from the market, you can avoid the waterbed effect that occurs in Europe with the ETS, thus releasing the CO that you emit less in the Netherlands elsewhere. If we remove the rights from the market at the current price of ETS, it will cost us EUR 60 million a year. If the ETS price rises, the expectation is that it will rise. This is going to cost us considerably more than 60 million per year. If you close five coal power stations, three of which are brand new and in which EUR 6 to 7 billion has been invested, you will also have to pay for this. That sum of the commitments you have to the owners of those coal plants, and the amount you lost annually to buy those ETS rights, leads me to think that it is wise to do what we agreed in the energy agreement: we must ensure that we close five out of ten plants and that we achieve the objectives, including the Urgenda objectives. If there are problems with this, then we must find a solution to these problems, with a clear picture of a coal power station.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u254	If you have 4 billion in biomass subsidies, you can last at 60 million a year for a long time. In terms of order of magnitude, that doesn't immediately make me pessimistic. Is the Minister also based on ECN for his accounts of coal power stations? If so, it might be more convenient to choose one model. How does the Minister explain the difference between the calculation you get when you use Frontier's report, with that big import, and the ECN report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u255	First about the biomass. You can grab an apple and a pear every time and compare it. We can talk about this biomass for another 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u256	I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u257	For biomass, the European Commission has established that its use is renewable energy. The Netherlands has drawn up the most far-reaching criteria for assessing the sustainability of biomass. We stick exactly to the deal of 25 petajoules. That is what we need in order to achieve that 14%. Otherwise, it won't work at all. Because of the need to make the transition to renewable energy quickly, we used this biomass. With the current electricity price, I estimate that a total amount of EUR 3.3 billion is needed for biomass over a period of eight years. Whether this will indeed be so much must be demonstrated by price developments in the near future. I can only repeat what I have just said about the various reports. For the energy agreement and for everything that has to do with it, I consistently use ECN to pass things on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u258	What does the Minister think about so many Dutch gas-fired power stations being shut down or shut down? Companies just write off those investments. Sometimes these are brand new gas plants, while we know that these gas plants emit half of the amount of CO from the most beautiful, new coal plants we have built in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u259	This assessment of gas plants and coal plants depends on several factors. If you are going to use a large proportion of biomass in the coal plants, other than coal, biomass is regarded as a sustainable energy carrier, then the picture for these plants already looks very different. Those things have all been linked in the energy agreement. We must keep the agreements we have made. In addition, a ruling was delivered by the judge in the Urgenda case. I have said from the outset that we are appealing against that judgment. In the meantime, we have to take care of the implementation. I did. I have indicated that we are going to achieve this 25% by means of the measures we have taken. All the considerations that we have made in this context at various points at various times, I am in favour of. I'm not gonna recreate all these trade-offs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u260	Maybe the Minister can explain it again after all. In the Netherlands, we have coal power plants that emit too much CO. Then we spend EUR 3 billion on biomass. Let's not call it wood chips. We also spend money on CCS. We all do that to reduce the carbon emissions of these coal plants. At the same time, we in the Netherlands have all these gas plants, some brand new, which emit half of the CO that coal plants emit. And they're standing still! Would it not be much wiser to simply give that money, the EUR 3 billion, back to the taxpayer, to close those coal-fired power stations and to turn those gas-fired power stations on? I think that's as ready as a whistle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u261	We are not going to do that kind of thing, because we have created support, because we have made agreements with the field, because we have weighed everything against each other, because we have looked at what we are doing with those ten coal plants and because we have said: we are going to close five because we have looked at what we are going to do with biomass. We've agreed to 25 petajoules, and we're sticking to that. I believe that all these considerations, which have been made in a long process by 47 parties and which have resulted in an energy agreement, must also be observed. We also comply with new relevant developments, such as the Urgenda judgment. That's how we keep the agreements, and that's the best we can do. We shouldn't go from one idea to another. We should not say one time: 25 petajoules biomass and the next time: no biomass. We should not say once: close five out of ten and close ten out of ten next time. I don't think that's wise, because you'll end up in ad hoc policy. You're gonna lose support if you don't keep your end of the bargain. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u262	Last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u263	The Minister is at his best when it comes to meeting agreements. In that he is unsurpassed. When it comes to calculation, he is generally so, but remember that when we made those agreements, biomass was twice as cheap as it is now. The circumstances have changed, though. I think it's important to keep agreements, but at the same time you shouldn't close your eyes to reality. I think it's a waste of money if a much more efficient solution is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u264	We were just talking about Drenthe. Then I said that at some point the whole procedure has been completed and the decision has been taken. Then as far as we're concerned, it's done. For this biomass, we concluded the energy agreement and then I dealt with biomass in the letter and spirit of that agreement. In the meantime, 24,84 petajoules of the 25 petajoules have already been authorised. So that's already over. We have done so, so the energy agreement has also been implemented on that point. Because we are implementing the energy agreement on all parts, all parties have been able to conclude that what we consider so important, namely that we reach that target of 14% and 16%, is now within reach. If I had deviated from the agreements on land wind, offshore windmills or biomass, we would not have been able to draw this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u265	Can the Minister tell me where the energy agreement states that no more than five coal plants can be closed during this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u266	It doesn't say that. It says we're shutting down five out of ten coal plants. The dates have also been recorded, so that this year the last two will close on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u267	If it doesn't say that it's not allowed, isn't it just a possibility under the energy agreement? At least five are closing, and it doesn't say anything that it shouldn't be there anymore. Those five are closing anyway, but there can also be a sixth, or a seventh and an eighth. Then what is in the energy agreement is still being implemented. The Minister himself said: there is no agreement in the agreement that more power stations should not be closed or that the other five coal plants should remain open until 2050 or something like that. That is not what it says, so the Minister does not break the energy agreement and there can be more power stations under that agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u268	It says in the energy agreement that a maximum of 25 petajoules of biomass is being destroyed. We could have also decided to do 20 petajoules, if that would have allowed us to achieve 14% by 2020. However, we have found that this cannot be achieved, that by 2020 we can only achieve that 14% if we use the full 25 petajoules. I've indicated from the beginning that I'm heading for the full 25 petajoules. As far as coal power stations are concerned, we have agreed that five out of ten will be closed and that the coal tax that had just been introduced will be abolished again. There is, of course, also a relationship between using biomass and keeping it open where it can be used. In order to do justice to the energy agreement as a whole, it is therefore wise to explain both biomass and coal power plants agreements as I have done. Then you have the connection and you can finally draw the conclusion that we have now reached, namely that we are going to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u269	By closing five coal-fired power stations, the Minister complies with the Urgenda climate judgment, but does not comply with the Paris climate agreement. The Minister says a lot about biomass, but I would like to talk about the storage of CO or CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage. The Minister says in his answers that he is also considering an incentive arrangement for this. Then we're going to give a bunch of subsidy money to a technique that ultimately doesn't bring the energy transition closer and keeps the coal power plants in the running.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u270	I would like to ignore the point made by Mrs Dik-Faber about coal power stations. I'm going into CCS, which her question was addressed to. We have distinguished different forms of energy utilisation in the energy agenda. One of these forms is the high temperature heat you need in the industry. At the moment, I do not see any possibility of getting that high temperature heat at your disposal other than with the use of fossil energy carriers. If you want to continue using fossil energy carriers while it is necessary not to let that CO get into the air, you will have to capture that CO. In order to capture and store CO in empty gas fields, you need to gain extensive practical experience. We are working together with other countries and with the European Union to implement a large-scale practical project for the collection and storage of CO. For this, coal plants are in the picture, because in one place there is a lot of CO in the air and there are companies that want to work on the further development of this for all kinds of reasons. So I am in the process of reaching a decision to implement such a large-scale CCS project. That project is gonna cost a lot of money. There is a lot of European money and money from other countries and a lot of Dutch money, but this is absolutely necessary to gain experience in Europe with the collection and storage of CO. The experience we can gain from this can also be used in the energy-intensive industry. If it continues to use fossil energy sources in the future but is not allowed to emit CO, there is an alternative. That's what the CCS project ROAD is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u271	I think it is inevitable that we will work with CO storage in the energy-intensive industry. That's gonna have to happen. I also understand the Minister when he says that we need to gain experience with this, but I doubt very much that so much government needs to be involved, and I really say no to coal power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u272	Mrs Dik-Faber, I am going to say the same thing to you as to Mrs Mulder: this is a second term. This isn't interrupting anymore. You are now presenting comprehensive views. That is possible, but you must do so in the second term and not in an interruption. What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u273	My question is about CO storage from coal power stations. I understand you need CO storage in the energy-intensive industry in the long term, but we really shouldn't want that in coal plants. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u274	At some point all the preparatory work has been done, there will be opinions and I have to take a decision on the ROAD project. I will certainly refer my consideration to the Chamber. Then Mrs Dik-Faber will also have her views on this. I am convinced, like the European Union, that it is necessary for the future to achieve storage via CCS. We are convinced that it is necessary to realise the only project still in the picture in Europe that is feasible, the ROAD project in Rotterdam. I'm trying to do that. This can best be done with one or two coal power stations that are located there in Rotterdam and emits CO that can be collected relatively easily and then stored. You can gain experience with such a large-scale project that you can then apply in the Netherlands and in other countries of Europe in the energy-intensive industry. This will enable employment in energy-intensive industries to continue to be maintained in the future, so that they can continue to operate responsibly in a low-carbon environment. I am convinced that this is important. I will look at what the final proposal looks like and what the opinions are. I will make my decision, and I am also curious to see what Mrs Dik-Faber's view is on behalf of the Christian Union, if she takes note of it and gives her opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u275	The Minister is going to pursue his argument, but I'm going to look at the clock first. If it goes on like this, we won't get to the second term tonight. How much longer does the Minister think he's gonna have to talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u276	I will try to be ready by 11 p.m., Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u277	Okay. I hope for the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u278	I shall then skip the issue of biomass, because I have said all that I need to say. I have already said the necessary things about the Energy Agenda. Mr Smaling says that I would not be carrying out motions on the assembly line. I have already said that during this cabinet period we had 122 discussions on energy in the Chamber. There have also been a lot of motions tabled by the Chamber on this issue. There are a lot of them. It is no exception if there are many dozens of motions for resolutions on this matter every month. I'll see which motions are passed first. I have already given my own advice on these motions. In the end, however, motions will be adopted. Then it is my intention to make such a motion. But in some cases, it can't be because I've already carried out such a motion. Then she's just confirming what I'm already doing. That will then be recorded in a motion again. Well, I can't do much news with that. But sometimes it is simply not reasonably possible to do what is requested in a motion. Then I'll let the Chamber know that, too. It's not that I don't carry out motions on the conveyor belt or that I would like not to carry out motions. But sometimes what is asked cannot be carried out responsibly. Let me look at the five motions mentioned by Mr Smaling. He said I wasn't carrying out the electric-driving motion. The Chamber has said: you must go from 100% fossil to 0% fossil within eight years. I really don't know how to do that. I think that's really impossible. So I figured out what I can do to the maximum. I think it should be possible, in the period between now and 2035, to go from 100% fossil to 0% fossil in the sale of new cars over 18 years. In carrying out that motion, therefore, I shall do what I think is reasonably possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u279	Mr Vos would like to put a question on this particular motion in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u280	In this motion the cabinet is asked to stop the sale of cars with an internal combustion engine in the Netherlands by 2025. It is therefore not a question of moving from fossil to completely emission-free. That is not a proper representation of reality. I'm very attached to noticing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u281	That's why I gave you the floor. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u282	Mr President, I have not yet got to ask my question. Why is this being discussed seriously in Norway? Why is this being discussed seriously in India? In India, we are talking about 2030 in this respect. Why does the Dutch cabinet say in spite of that: no, it can't be done and we will do so in 2035? I mentioned Bloomberg's office earlier. I am sympathetic to the fact that Mr Smaling says that the cabinet simply takes a different view than the Chamber. That is possible, but my question is: why does the cabinet do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u283	Mr Vos raises two points. He says I'm not right about this. I've told you four times in my input that it's about new cars. Perhaps Mr Vos will be able to read it again in the Acts. I have said four times that almost 100% of the new cars sold now run on fossil fuel, and that it is intended to be brought to 0% for those new cars sold at the end of a period. Mr Vos says that we must achieve this in eight years' time. I'm saying that's impossible. I say that what we are trying to do now is already very ambitious. We are trying to achieve this in a period of 18 years to 2035. Mr Vos's second point is that he believes that it can be done in other countries. He mentions India as an example. Good. He cites Norway and other countries as examples. Let me tell him that, as may be the case in those countries, certainly in Norway, we are very serious about this. I think that is a task that we must accomplish. If we want to move to 80%, 95%, close to 100% renewable energy by 2050, then we need to move to 100% emission-free for cars. I also believe that this should be done as soon as possible. I'm willing to do that. That is why I set the target for 2035. I believe that this is a very ambitious objective and the maximum I can do on this point. So I'm gonna give you the maximum of the motion. The second motion concerns the division of Eneco and Delta. At that time, my predecessor initiated a process whereby it was laid down in the law that integrated energy companies had to split up in the Netherlands. That's done. During my period as Minister of Economic Affairs, two companies that did not commit themselves to this have initiated legal proceedings. They were wrong at the end of the Supreme Court's legal proceedings. So they had to split up too. Now they both do: both Eneco and Delta split. After the Supreme Court made a final ruling on this matter, Mr Smaling felt that the division should not continue for those companies and that a motion would be adopted in the First Chamber in order not to allow that division to continue. This is the implementation of the law that has been established under my predecessor. The Supreme Court ruled on that. I am not taking the liberty of abandoning the law and the ruling of the Supreme Court. I think it needs to be executed. I immediately said in the First Chamber that I cannot reasonably carry out that motion. Mr Smaling concluded that I was not doing what he thought I should do. To that end, he made the consequence of aligning a bill that had nothing to do with it. That bill was finally agreed in the First Chamber as well. We are still dealing with the consequences of this. We're trying to catch it in the best way we can. So I couldn't reasonably carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u284	We are not going to hold the whole of the debates at the time by motion, but I would like to make a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u285	I wasn't going to, Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate that the Minister is finishing the motions, but he is saying again: the Supreme Court has said that these companies should split up. That's just an error. The Supreme Court said that the division was not contrary to European law. That's a lot different. The Minister should not always put things in such a way that they are not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u286	Then let Mr. Smaling check this out. I didn't tell them to split up. I didn't say that. I said that the decision was upheld by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court did not rule that these companies did not have to split up. They therefore did not win the legal procedure they had initiated, in order to ensure that they did not have to split up. It is no longer possible for me to deviate from what is laid down in a law and on which the Supreme Court has ruled. That is why, in my view, I could not reasonably carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u287	You just said the companies had to split up. That's not true. I would like to see a proper representation of the developments at the time in the Upper House given here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u288	I'm constantly trying to give a proper view. I do my best to do that at every part. The third motion referred to by Mr Smaling was the motion on coal-fired power stations. I have come to the conclusion that it is important to stick to the energy agreement. I've concluded that we can comply with the Urgenda sentence. I have come to the conclusion that it is not wise, if you close coal plants in Europe, to close the best coal plants but to make arrangements to close the worst coal plants first. So I can come to the conclusion that I cannot reasonably carry out what is stated in the motion: the closure of all coal power stations. Then biomass. If I have already granted 24,84 petajoule for biomass, then there may be a motion that says that I must immediately stop using biomass, but then there is the fact that it has been authorised. I did so at the end of a four-year period in which we have consistently worked on the implementation of the energy agreement, including on biomass. As far as the wind farms in Drenthe are concerned, I can say the following. If I am completely done with my work, if the decision is final and if the period during which you can appeal to the Council of State is over, then I have no room for manoeuvre. I have no choice but to respond to that motion as I did. So it's not like I'm gonna be working on the assembly line motions. It is true that in a number of cases it is not reasonably possible for me to carry out. That is what I am arguing on behalf of the cabinet and I am informing the Chamber about that. I'm not happy to do that, but sometimes it's no different. Let me address a number of points that the various spokesmen have raised in particular. Mrs Van Tongeren started her input with the thesis that the gas extraction in Groningen continues. I think both Mrs Van Tongeren and I know very well that this is not the case. The gas extraction in Groningen is not going to continue; it is halved. Mrs Van Tongeren wondered why we didn't take the gas away from the houses until the year 2050. I have indicated that I think it is a huge task to remove 200,000 houses per year from the gas and to replace them with something else. You will see how the people in the country who are dealing with this will react to that. Mrs van Tongeren said that a clear direction is needed for renewable energy, and I very much agree with her. I think we can see that this clear direction has been given in the coalition agreement, the energy agreement and the Energy Agenda. We are consistently working to ensure that this is 100% implemented. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about CO measurements and their funding. The measurements of greenhouse gases are done by the KNMI. That is part of the basic tasks of the KNMI. The KNMI will be financed. It has to do that work out of its funding. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment asked the KNMI in November last year to identify whether the money it receives is still in proportion to its basic tasks. The results are expected in the first six months. The KNMI has a view on this. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment will have an opinion on this. We will then look at what needs to be done, but at the moment that funding is regulated and that work is done. Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned as an example of an unimplemented motion a motion by her and Mrs Vos on gas connections. That motion calls on the government to indicate in the Energy Agenda how the gas connection obligation will be removed in the short term. I did make that motion. The Energy Agenda states that the gas connection obligation will be converted into a right to heat and that the law will be adapted accordingly. That's something I intend to do myself. I myself have argued that this must be done, and that is also in line with that motion. That motion was therefore also carried out. Mrs Van Tongeren, like Mr Vos and others, asked for an extra wind farm at sea for the year 2023. I think I'll be able to meet that materially. In a period of five years, a wind farm is tendered each year. Those wind farms are being built one after the other. In 2023, they all turn. I am now in the process of setting up the organisation, so that in the next round of 7x1,000 megawatts, including in IJmuiden Ver, we can make the first of those seven decisions in the year 2023 and run that park in 2023. In this way we continue the line of 5x700 megawatts in the line of 7x1,000 megawatts. I think that's the maximum we can reasonably do. Mrs Van Tongeren asked me what I'm going to do about super-statutory demands that provinces make to wind on land. On the basis of the experience we have gained in recent years, too, I believe that in future we will have to ensure that decisions are taken in the region as far as possible. This means that we must respect the choices made in the regions, if that is possible and if the national objectives are to be met. Now I've agreed with the provinces that 6,000 megawatts. I expect every province to realize this. Within realizing its own share in those 6,000 megawatts, the provinces have policy freedom as far as I'm concerned. I do not want to take away this freedom of policy from the provinces, as long as they meet the objective that we have set together and which we have agreed on. According to Mrs Van Tongeren, sending only CO is a missed opportunity. It believes that renewable energy and energy saving should also be promoted. I think it is important, for the future, to just steer to CO. When we focus on CO, to achieve that objective, you need to make the most of the potential of energy efficiency and renewable energy. So if you want to achieve that CO target, you will also have to achieve those other objectives. How exactly you realize that and in what proportion, then leave you to the market. The point is to reduce CO emissions. Renewable energy and energy efficiency are derived from this. The important point that I think Mrs Van Tongeren is concerned with is that if, with the currently poorly functioning ETS, we focus on CO alone, there will be no pressure to take steps in the Netherlands in the first year. This means that we could afford not to do too much in the light of the malfunctioning ETS for a number of years and not to take any new measures. We would then have to take additional measures in the years after 2030, but who lives then, who takes care of them. So I don't want to do that. If it is up to me, we will take additional policies to ensure that, if there is insufficient pressure from the ETS, we have to keep and improve that system and we have to lower that limit every year; the Netherlands will also take initiatives to do so, and if this does not provide sufficient pressure for the Netherlands at first, in the direction of 2050 in a straight line reduce CO emissions. We will also take additional measures necessary to achieve this. I've already gone into the coal power stations. CO-cooperation with other countries, on which Mr Bosman began, will be dealt with shortly when he answers his questions. I have already dealt with the constitutional demands. So these were Mrs Van Tongeren's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u289	That was "the block of Tongeren."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u290	That was a whole block. I thank the Minister for the answers. I have a question about the gas connections. About two years ago, I tabled my first motion. It asked whether it was possible to consider whether new buildings could no longer be connected to the gas. That motion has been dissuaded. Then there were certainly two more motions, which were adopted. Now the Minister is coming up with this, but as far as I am concerned, that could have been earlier. There is therefore an acceleration possible in all kinds of places. Now we get the FAT Act. We do not yet have the note on the basis of the report, but I can therefore assume that in that note the Minister arranges for the municipalities to be given the direction of getting off the gas and that there is no obligation to connect to the gas anymore. That is the thrust of two motions for resolutions adopted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u291	I do not have the illusion that I am greener than GroenLinks in terms of sustainability, energy saving and energy efficiency. So it is perfectly conceivable that you are advocating certain things that you see one or two years later that they are also included in the policy, but we are not talking to each other for nothing either. This is our 122nd meeting. There is constant input from your side and I say things all the time. I listen to you and you listen to me. At some point you can also recognise and support the policy. Then I'm glad, because that's why I'm talking to you and others. As far as the two points that Mrs Van Tongeren is concerned, I do indeed think that the municipalities should be in charge there. This means that we find that all houses have to get rid of gas at the rate of 200,000 a year. I have absolutely no opposition to the municipalities, quite the contrary. I myself speak municipalities and provinces several times a year. They simply have the ambition to do so, want to take up this challenge, take all kinds of initiatives and are also supported by their municipal councils. I'm all very satisfied with that. Mrs Van Tongeren says that this obligation for the gas connection should be removed and replaced by the right to heat. I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren. There is now a proposal by Mr Bosman to make that legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u292	The second question is about the CO measurement. As a Chamber, we have taken the initiative of occasionally finding money for this because it seemed that it would not happen again. Now it has just been said that the role of the KNMI is to measure CO and that it has to find room within its lump sum funding itself. It says that there is structural funding. However, that means that the KNMI has to think: do we do this, do we fire another investigator, or do we not do something else? That is something different from what I believe was the intention of the Chamber. The majority of the Chamber wanted the only place in the Netherlands where CO and aerosols are actually measured to remain. For that to happen, as far as I am concerned, funding must be earmarked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u293	33 million a year goes to the KNMI and it has to do a number of things. The world is changing, the priorities are changing. This is what we think is important, what the KNMI must do, and then it is its job to do so within its budget. Everyone has to do things within their budget and you have to set priorities and retrogrades, as does the KNMI. It may be that there is an unreasonable attitude from the government, hence I and M have said: look at what you have been assigned to basic tasks, bring that in relation to your budget and tell us whether or not you can carry out your basic tasks within that budget in a reasonable way. The first six months of this year will be delivered and assessed. Mrs Van Tongeren can then draw the conclusion that is drawn from it. I think, however, that it is a good thing that we are doing it now and that we should not take any further action. This is a logical approach. Then I come to Mr Bosman's questions. He stressed the importance of the commitment of municipalities. I very much agree with him. This emphasis is also laid in the Energy Agenda. The municipalities and the province must take account of the situation in the regions. They are very motivated to do so, but we have to say what needs to be achieved in the end. The sum total of the activities must be that what needs to be achieved is also achieved in good time. Different views are taken on the climate problem. I am convinced of the seriousness of the climate problem and of the urgency of taking action. This means that I am very motivated to achieve everything that I believe is necessary. I'm not prepared to move things forward or say we'll look at them later. I think it is important that we achieve the objectives. I would like to give the region this freedom of policy, but I also want the sum total of the activities of the regions to ensure that what is necessary is actually done, and that this is done in good time. Mr Bosman spoke about things that would have gone wrong in Drenthe. I have already indicated that I look at this differently and have argued that. Mr Bosman wants an energy agreement 2.0. I can very well imagine that he wants to. It is also conceivable that it will happen, but the question is who should decide. I was the one who helped to achieve the energy agreement during this cabinet period. I was the one who carried out the coalition agreement. I was the one who drew up the Energy Agenda for the period up to 2050, which already contains a number of quite detailed and far-reaching measures. The question is whether I should also be the one to conclude the energy agreement 2.0. Of course, it is perfectly conceivable that my successors should also have the space to lay their accents in consultation with the Chamber. After the elections, the Chamber will, first and foremost, re-negotiate this in the cabinet formation. Then there will be a successor. I believe that the energy agreement 2.0 will then come into sight and that I should not anticipate that. That is my view at the moment. Mr Bosman felt that we should get an ETS leader group with about eight countries in North-West Europe. I'm very afraid to repeat that to him. In the end, we in the world must achieve something. We must also achieve something in Europe, as part of the world. I think it is important for us in Europe to make our contribution with a well-functioning ETS. If that ETS does not work well enough, because the amount of CO2 we emit as a result of an economic crisis and all kinds of measures taken in industry is actually less than we had previously thought, the price of CO2 is too low. I therefore believe that we need to improve the ETS. We have to cut that ceiling every year, faster than we do now. We must make every effort to ensure that the ETS works as quickly as possible. If, instead, we agree with some of the European countries, I think we are losing out on the ETS. In the end, we are not doing good things for Europe and the European contribution to solving the climate problem. I have not seen any analysis that would allow me to commit myself to an ETS head group in a responsible way. That won't happen anymore in the period I'm missionary. For I do not yet see that an analysis that is different from what I have just said can be delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u294	I have a question on this point, because I had also made comments on this. Then the Minister doesn't have to go into this twice. If such a European breakaway does not appear, will national measures be presented to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u295	Yes, on that question, I say the same thing as I said to Mrs Van Tongeren. The Netherlands has already gone a long way in terms of energy efficiency as a result of the failure of ETS. The Netherlands has a modern industry that is already highly energy efficient compared to other countries. We have also done a lot in our country about the isolation of houses. If we rely solely on the ETS and rely on CO, I think we are doing too little for a number of years. I don't think that's justified. That is why I will take additional measures to ensure that we go in a straight line to 2050. We will nevertheless take the measures that I believe are necessary, regardless of how it works at the very beginning of ETS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u296	Is the Minister thinking of a kind of tax on coal and gas, for example? What are we supposed to think about? Do you then put a plus on ETS of x euro ascending to...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u297	If Mrs Mulder can give me that, I will come back to exactly what we are going to do for that. I've got that in my notes somewhere, but I don't have it so ready right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u298	That's totally fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u299	I find it special that the Netherlands can take action itself. This would mean that the countries around us could sit back and say: we can see what this industry is going to do in the Netherlands; perhaps it will regulate itself a little bit and we can get that industry on our own. But making agreements with the countries around us would not be possible, according to the Minister. I don't understand why that wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u300	It is not the case that other European countries can sit back. We must all meet the objectives agreed in Paris and translated by the European Union. This means that we will all have to intervene. The Netherlands will initially experience little pressure from the ETS due to the efficient industry and all the measures it has already taken. Other countries will experience more pressure, because they have a less efficient industry and because they have taken fewer measures. They will have to take action as a result of this pressure. I do not think it is right for us to start doing too little at first and to make some sort of catch-up after a number of years in order to get it done. Because then it's just a question of whether we can actually do it. I don't want to be asked if we're gonna get it done. I believe that we must achieve these objectives in full. This can best be achieved in the Netherlands by taking separate measures in the years when there is insufficient pressure from the ETS on the Netherlands to ensure that it keeps pace. I think that will ultimately be beneficial for the Netherlands as well. It is beneficial, because as a result our industry, which is already at the forefront, and our innovative people who come up with solutions. They are then conceived in the Netherlands. Then something can be done with that. You can invent that expertise and other countries can apply it. You can make money with that. So it is also a good thing for our earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u301	I fully agree that we must continue to do everything in the Netherlands and work actively on it. I am convinced that in the Netherlands we have the smartest people in the whole world. The ETS will, perhaps with a leading group, put pressure on other countries. We all have to do this. I think it is important that we address each other in Europe and see if there are any means to encourage each other to achieve the goals. If the rest of us do not do it and we do, I understand that, but I do miss the sense of urgency in the rest of Europe, or the pressure from the Netherlands on the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u302	Those other countries feel the pressure of the ETS stronger than we do. Moreover, I would very much like to make agreements with eight countries, with even more countries and with the European Union as a whole, to speed up the reduction of the CO ceiling agreed under the ETS. As far as I'm concerned, we're down by 2.2% a year. It's having a big effect. The CO price resulting from the ETS will then rise faster. It's gonna work better this way. Anyway, we're all gonna have to do that. The question is what the Netherlands is doing in the meantime. Are we going to sit back to some extent? We're gonna take it down a notch? Or are we holding on to our line? As far as we are concerned, foreign countries are experiencing the pressure of the current ETS. We are convinced that we should go in a straight line towards 2050, that we should not move anything towards the future and that we should now tackle what we can reasonably do. That is what I am advocating, and I would like to take a number of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u303	You have a second term, Mr Bosman. Minister, have we reached the next speaker yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u304	I am still with Mr Bosman, who argued in favour of supporting the energy transition in education. He gave an example of how he himself was involved. It is of the utmost importance that we do this. There is still insufficient knowledge and support for the energy transition. If you want to get it, it is very good to do it through the schools and thus reach the parents. So we absolutely must do that. For each of the four transition paths we set out under the Energy Agenda, we need to look at how we can somehow involve young people and schools. Mr Bosman spoke about the employment of coal-fired power stations. I have said all the necessary things about coal power stations. The President does not like me to repeat anything, but I can tell Mr Bosman that in the short term we will ask the Economic and Social Committee to give its opinion on the social agenda for the energy transition. It is about more work, that comes as a result of the transition to renewable energy, but also about the consequences of reducing fossil energy. In the light of the ESC opinion, we can discuss how this should be assessed further. Mr Vos spoke about the netting arrangement. Others have done the same. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Vos referred to their motion on the netting arrangement. We have highlighted the evaluation of the netting scheme. It was planned for this year, but it was already implemented last year. The evaluation shows that the current netting scheme has contributed to the growth of the number of solar panels, but also that there may be over-stimuli in the long term, that as a result market-distorting effects may occur and that the costs of electricity networks may increase. Those are all serious points. Overstimulation is a serious point, because what gives one too much incentive, gets the other too little, or the other has to pay for it. It is just sensible that, as a result of this evaluation, I should list the different alternatives to how we could act. One of these alternatives is an adjustment of the netting system, but one can also think of maintaining the netting system and possibly different variants of adjusting the netting system. I need to get that all straight. I have to tell everyone what the pros and cons of this are and draw a conclusion from it and submit it to the Chamber. I think it is also right that the Chamber should give itself the opportunity to assess the homework I am doing on this important point. I intend to bring this whole thing to the Chamber this spring so that we can talk about it. Mr Vos and Mrs Van Tongeren, in their motion, have reached the conclusion that the Chamber has already given a ruling on this matter. I think it's a good thing I keep doing this homework anyway. We didn't do that evaluation for nothing. We must therefore allow each other to develop and assess the different variants. That will therefore be possible this spring. Mrs Mulder has asked if I can guarantee that anyone who is now putting solar panels on his roof can still pay off for 12 years. The answer is no. I have indicated that the current regime will remain in place until 2020 and that a proper transitional regime will be introduced if it is amended. That is what I said and I want to leave it at that until we have made the assessment of the various variants I mentioned and we have drawn conclusions from them and submitted them to the Chamber so that we can discuss them with each other. Mr Vos also spoke about small-scale wind projects. He has spoken about this on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u305	Can the Minister indicate when he will send that piece on the netting arrangement to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u306	This spring. I will see if on another occasion I can specify the Chamber a little more what I think about when I say 'this spring'. Right now, I can't go any further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u307	I think Mrs Mulder knows whether that is before or after 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u308	Yes, but I have good hopes that I will be dealing with Mrs Mulder before and after 15 March. So that won't be so important to her. On 3 January, I informed the Chamber of how I intend to implement Mr Jan Vos's motion on an increased SDE+ rate for small-scale wind projects. On 26 January I replied to additional questions on this subject. Following that motion, at my request, ECN started an additional investigation into the cost profiles for small-scale wind projects. This must then show whether and to what extent an increased SDE+ tariff is necessary and how it can be designed without making the energy transition unnecessarily expensive. I estimate this will be ready in the second quarter. This is well before the opening of the autumn round of the SDE+. For the spring round, that can't play anymore, because I don't have the pre-work done. We do not yet have sufficient reliable data, but in this way I will give substance to this motion by Mr Jan Vos. Mr Vos spoke of an extra wind farm at sea. I have dealt with that, I hope, to his satisfaction as well. He also spoke about the multiple objectives, which I also mentioned. Mr Vos said that SDE+ should not be used for innovation. A certain amount has been set aside for innovation. On how we deal with innovation in this country, the next cabinet will have views anyway. As a current cabinet, we also have the ambition to lead it there that 2.5% of gross domestic product will be used for innovation and research and development in 2020. We're at 2% now. To get that 0.5% extra, we need to invest 5 billion more. We have the hope and expectation that if we as a government invest 1 billion more than 4 billion will come from business, but that 1 billion will have to be made available. So that will undoubtedly be discussed in the cabinet formation. The key energy policy area will certainly be discussed, for which innovation is of the utmost importance. That connection will be made. We have to wait and see how that goes. Perhaps there will be a broadening of the SDE+ scheme, in which I refer to what is called a biovariant of a combined heat and power plant. A number of things can be considered in the broadening of the SDE+ scheme. I will not take a decision on this anymore; that will be done in a subsequent period. Mrs Van Veldhoven was the next speaker. I have dealt with the coal-fired power stations and the objectives of the energy agreement. Mrs Van Veldhoven indicated that she would like to have an overview of the additional measures taken to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement. We have already said a number of things about this in the 2016 NEV. In addition, we sent an overview to the Chamber when answering the written questions following a consultation on the NEV 2016. I could read out those amounts, but I refer to reply 37 to the written questions that have been put in this connection. I think that's the overview Mrs Van Veldhoven wants. If she wishes to have other information, I will see if I can provide the Chamber with that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u309	Did you have any more answers for Mrs Van Veldhoven, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u310	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u311	Then we'll do it just like Mrs. Van Tongeren. We finish the whole row before Mrs. Van Veldhoven is allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u312	As always, we'll do as you say, Mr. Chairman. This means that I will go on to Mrs Van Veldhoven's next point: the 380kV line to be built in Groningen. She talked about nature's interests there. Others have also spoken about the 380kV line. There is also a lot to do in the area. I think it is good to see that in future we will use much more electricity to heat our homes and run our cars. This means that much more electricity needs to be produced. It must also be transported. This must be done in such a way that there is security of supply for the people and businesses that depend on that energy. In Zeeland, in Brabant but also in Groningen, weaknesses in our energy transport network will have to be strengthened. In Groningen, a 220 kV high-voltage line runs over a 40 km site. There's a 110 kV high-voltage line running across another line. In its entirety, I'm now talking about 50 kilometres of high voltage mains. That's where we're gonna do something else. We are going to bring the 110kV high voltage line of 10 kilometers, after an intermediate step, underground. So, out of 50 kilometers, it's 10 kilometers underground. That's the 110kV line. For the other 40 kilometers we've shifted the route a bit. Aborting the current route. For this, a new lead will replace the one with more modern, slender masts. There'll be fewer masts, too. That new track will be put down something else. 66 homes in Groningen are located below the magnetic zone of the current high voltage line. Under the new high-voltage line, three homes will be located. So we go back from 66 to 3 homes under the magnetic zone. From the 50 kilometers we lay 10 kilometers underground. The other 40 kilometres are built in such a way that big profits are made for the people in the area. The drivers in Groningen believe that of those 40 km should be placed 10 km underground. I also read today in an article in a newspaper that delegates would have said that it is possible to build all the power lines underground in the Netherlands. That's a big misunderstanding. In the Netherlands, it is technically possible, except for the 20 km underground which half will be carried out as an experiment and half for a responsible execution of a plan in the Randstad, to achieve an additional 20 km underground in a responsible way. That extra 20 km can be used for bottlenecks in various places in the country. I shall then have to consider the seriousness of the bottleneck and the amount that is needed for it. If you laid in Groningen of the new 380kV lines 10 km underground, next to the 10 km underground of the 110kV line, the cost of the total project would be 50% higher. An additional sum of between 105 million and 130 million is needed to bring 10 km extra underground. However, that bottleneck is not such that it is justified to spend an amount in that order of magnitude. I've come to the conclusion that we shouldn't. I think we should do other things. Apart from reducing the number of obstructed homes from 66 to 3 and besides laying off the 110kV line 10 km underground after an intermediate step, we also have to compensate for this, both for nature and for the landscape in the area. 5 million will be allocated to nature and 7 million will be allocated to the landscape. With the drivers in the area, we're going to see how best to fill it out there. As far as I am concerned, the province is also involved. All in all, we implement the strengthening of the high-voltage grid in Groningen in a very careful way. That is my response to what Mrs Van Veldhoven has said on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u313	Are there any other points by Mrs Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u314	With Mrs. Van Veldhoven, I'll never get away with it that quickly. Let me look at the other points she has raised. I have already addressed the questions about the coal power stations and the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. I have said that if Mrs Van Veldhoven wants additional information on the figures, I will see if I can meet her wish. Have I dealt with all the points made by Mrs Van Veldhoven? I've gone into the Urgenda judgment and the point about Drenthe. I also said what we're going to do as a follow-up to wind at sea. I have also spoken about innovation. I am flattered by the thought that I have done justice to Mrs Van Veldhoven's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u315	Then she can make an interruption now. She can choose what this interruption is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u316	I thank the Minister for the commitment to the information requests. I'll see if that's all the information we need. Otherwise, I will send my questions to the Minister via the Registrar. If the Minister says that he chooses nature compensation because it is more justified in terms of costs and benefits than wiring, then the amount available for nature compensation must be sufficient, so that the region also feels that the balancing is being done in a good way. The Minister mentions two specific amounts. I would like to have the assurance from him that it is primarily about doing what is necessary. Secondly, we can look at how expensive that is, instead of already saying what the amounts are. I also asked for a timeline for negotiations with the coal-fired power stations. I also asked about the netting. In addition, I asked whether the compensation scheme that the Minister wants to pursue has also been evaluated in order to determine whether it is necessary to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u317	What compensation scheme do you mean, Mrs Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u318	This is the compensation scheme that we have set up for companies covered by the ETS and which are compensated for indirect costs in neighbouring countries. The minister says he'd like to extend that arrangement. D66 doesn't want to drive industry out of the country either. If there's any reason to do that, we should do it. But I would like to see the justification for the continuation of that arrangement sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u319	I've gone into the salad. What we need to do at this point is to make sure that, on the basis of this evaluation, we look at the different alternatives, identify the advantages and disadvantages and then choose what is best for the energy transition and for the people in the country to do. We shouldn't overcompensate one and let the other pay the bill. We need to make a proper assessment of this. That's why I'm gonna do the preliminary work. This spring, I will come up with the conclusions on this point. With regard to the timeline for coal power stations, I do not know what Mrs Van Veldhoven wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u320	Then let them say that in between. What exactly do you want, Mrs Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u321	I would like to know with whom at what time what kind of conversations have been held in the past year to implement that motion, where the bottlenecks were, that kind of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u322	I've sent all the relevant reports to the Chamber. I've had a lot of research done, and that investigation has all been given to the Chamber. There has, of course, been constant consultation with everyone and everything, both within the Ministry and with the energy companies and with nature and environmental organisations. There has also been a lot of consultation with colleagues from Infrastructure and the Environment. That's just the work I do. I have sent the results of the work we have done and have had done, as well as our conclusions, to the Chamber. That's the information I can and want to give to the Chamber. Then I come to the compensation scheme. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about indirect compensation for ETS companies. That scheme has been extended, and it asks whether it has been examined whether that is really necessary. We agreed in the Energy Agreement that the State will compensate for the indirect emissions costs of the ETS, and make available a budget for this over the period 2013 to 2020. For this, an extension is now in the picture. The extension of the compensation is important for the competitiveness of Dutch companies. The scheme will be reviewed in the first half of 2017. It was created at the beginning of this cabinet period, and money has been allocated to it. For the future, that needs to be re-examined. We are going to evaluate first and then we are going to see if the scheme has actually contributed to countering carbon leakage. That's the idea. If that evaluation has led to a conclusion, which must be made in the first half of the year, I will share it with the Chamber. On this basis, we will conclude whether there should be an extension of this scheme in its current or other form for the period after the period under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u323	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u324	No, what you have now really needs to be saved for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u325	Mrs Dik-Faber said that the Energy Agenda lacks concrete plans. I do not think she is right. There are very concrete things in it, but we are talking about something that starts in six years and runs until the year 2050. Then I won't be there anymore, but Mrs. Dik-Faber will of course. It's really for the distant future. For this period up to 2050 we cannot all fill it in as much detail as we did for the period up to 2023. It has to be done. We have laid down the broad lines of the decisions. We have also said that four ways of using energy must be further developed and completed. That will happen in the near future. As time progresses, further detailing will take place. I believe that the Energy Agenda has gone a long way, I hope also to Mrs Dik-Faber's satisfaction. She gave her opinion on sending only on CO. I gave my opinion on that, too. We had an exchange of views on this. As far as I am concerned, we can continue to do so because it is an important starting point for the Energy Agenda. In addition to what I said about the additional measures that we need to take, I think there is an approach which also deserves the support of Mrs Dik-Faber. It has views on coal-fired power stations. That's what I've been working on. The same applies to Drenthe and to additional wind farms at sea. It believes that social benefits should be taken into account in the SDE+. The social benefits of the SDE+ are, of course, that we make the transition to renewable energy as low as possible and in a way that can also maintain security of supply. These are, I think, the most important social benefits. If Mrs Dik-Faber wants more social benefits in view, this can be done with the possible broadening of the SDE+, which will be discussed in a subsequent cabinet period. Then she can provide that input. Mrs Dik-Faber still finds the postcode rose scheme very complicated. I think it is a good arrangement, along with SDE+ and along with the netting arrangement. We've improved it a lot. Every time there was a problem, I solved it. There is considerable progress in the use of the postcode rose scheme. In a subsequent cabinet period, the whole of the arrangements will be re-examined and further decision-making will take place. At the moment, after the improvements we have made, the scheme is what I want to do in this cabinet period. Ms Mulder asked about the additional ETS measures. I ask my staff to give me the notes that have been made here once again. I'll be able to get back to you on that. Mrs Mulder has a view on several objectives, but I have already addressed them. She challenged me to apply the Groningen example for stimulating energy developments across the country. In the energy agreement, we agreed to step up the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act. At the same time, an energy transition financing facility will be created by the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten in collaboration with the Dutch Investment Agency (NIA). This facility will be supported by the Enterprise Financing Guarantee, the JV scheme. The Energy Transition Finance Facility focuses both on renewable energy and on energy saving projects. We have already moved this on a national scale, both in terms of measures and in terms of funding. This should lead to additional energy savings. It's an approach where you both stimulate and correct. In the Eemshaven they are doing this in the right way. It is quite conceivable that the example of the Eemshaven will enable us to benefit from its further development in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u326	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u327	I'll wait for the Minister to deal with all your points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u328	It's a very small...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u329	No, I'm waiting for the Minister to deal with everything about your contribution, as I did with everyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u330	Mrs Mulder spoke about the code of conduct for wind on land. I said this was used at the Drenthe wind farm. She feels that we should withdraw the Drenthe plan and that we should start all over again. I have said what is necessary. According to her, the first solar panels could be there next year. I have indicated my assessment of the procedure to be followed there. I believe that I have had Mrs Mulder's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u331	A compliment to the Minister for taking the Eemshaven as an example for further policy. When will he return to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u332	I have indicated that we are already working on this policy on a national scale, both in terms of content and funding. It is being developed in the various regions. I have appreciated what is being done in the Emshaven. I will follow what is happening in the country and also what is happening in the Eemshaven. We will exchange these experiences and try to make the most of them in the country. That's just running business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u333	When will the Minister come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u334	It's something I'm constantly working on. We set this up and now it has to be carried out in the country. The Eemshaven is doing well, also in other areas there are initiatives and there is continuous interaction. Let me illustrate this with the transition from gas for all homes to heat for all homes. That's what we're doing with all the provincial directors and all the city leaders. We have created a heat table, we have set up working groups and constantly exchange experiences there. So I cannot say: 1 April this and 1 September that, but we are constantly working on it all year round to learn from each other. I also imagine the same thing in this regard. So I can't tell you a specific date. All I can say is I work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u335	One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u336	And I still had such a nice short interruption: when?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u337	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to my staff, I now turn to the question of what to do if there is insufficient pressure on the ETS, on our CO emission reduction. What action can we take? With all due respect to my staff, which I can always rely on in full confidence: I obviously have not formulated my question clearly enough on this point, because the answer they have given me is not what I mean. I'm gonna have to look it up myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u338	Then we'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u339	Mr. Chairman. I realise that I am lacking in the information and response to the Chamber on this important issue. I think this is an important point, on which I should therefore inform the Chamber separately. The essence of it is the following. In addition to everything we are already doing, we will have to do more in order to reach the target by 2050. If we want to focus only on CO, we will have to get it from the ETS in order to do it. We will therefore have to improve the ETS. During the period when the ETS has not improved sufficiently and there is insufficient incentive for the Netherlands in particular, we need to pursue additional policies to keep enough pressure on the boiler to set the path towards 2050 in a straight line. For that I have to list a number of things I am thinking of for that extra policy, but I am sorry to say that I cannot report to the Chamber now. I will work that out separately and inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u340	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u341	I'll do that in the short term, this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u342	Thank you very much. We would have stayed with the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u343	I've had Mrs. Mulder. I'll see if I left anything at Mrs. Dik-Faber's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u344	She's shaking a no herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u345	That's totally awesome. Then I'll get on with Mrs. Klever. Mrs Klever has a very different approach to the problem. It has always denied the climate problem and is doing so again. She doesn't like biomass, windmills and electric driving. We are handing out subsidies like crazy and the energy agreement needs to be torn apart. I do not know what to do with these comments, because this is the beginning of everything we are doing. I've said a lot about that. If all that is being pulled into the ludicrous, I can start again by explaining and defending everything, but I believe that butter is on the gallows. That doesn't make much sense. With all due respect to Mrs Klever, because I would like to respond to her points, but this time she has hardly challenged me to do so either. Mr Smaling is in favour of a climate law, he said. He has also supported the Climate Law, which is in process. He thinks there should be one. I do not have an opinion on this at the moment. If this climate law is taken into consideration, the cabinet will be asked for an opinion. Then we will discuss this in the Cabinet and I will come up with a view. I'd like to say a few things in advance. First of all, in the end, you don't need a law like that. You have to have it from a plan you want to carry out. You have to think about who you want to do that with and how you want to do that. You have to try to make appointments and set timelines. That's how you do it. Apart from the way in which this is supported by legal regulations, it will have to come mainly from plans and plans. Secondly, we have co-signed and ratified the Paris climate agreement. As a result, we are legally bound by this. In this way we already have a legal basis among our activities. It is quite conceivable that the combination of the planning that I have just mentioned and everything that comes with it, together with the legal basis that already exists, will be judged as sufficient. It may also be said that there is something else to be said. That could be the climate bill. I think we should wait and see when the climate law will be discussed in the Chamber. We shall then have to discuss this further on behalf of the cabinet. Mr Smaling also spoke about non-implemented motions. I have already had the opportunity to go into that. Mr Smaling spoke in detail about Drenthe. That's what I've been working on. I believe that I have also done justice to Mr Smaling's points. Mrs Ouwehand thinks the Energy Agenda is too slow and too fossil. I disagree with her. We agreed on a goal in Paris. This is translated into a European context. The Netherlands is fully committed to further shaping and developing this in its own country. It is true that we have our own economy here in the Netherlands. This includes the agricultural activities that are being carried out here. The Animal Party has a different view on this than a majority of the Chamber. A majority of the Chamber believes that the agricultural activities aimed at keeping animals should be able to continue, with all the conditions and rules that should apply to them. A majority believes that the provisions that need to be made for this also hear that you handle the manure in a good way. Manure fermentation is a good way. In my opinion, it is a good thing if you are able to absorb the manure from livestock farmers' activities and process it properly through manure fermentation, and if you can get energy out of it. So I think that manure fermentation and FrieslandCampina's activity in this respect are commendable. In the year 2020, FrieslandCampina wants 1,000 individual manure digesters. I find this commendable activity which I would also like to support. With the support we give to this, we are trying to reduce the cost of this manure fermentation as quickly as possible, so that it can continue without or with little subsidy. Mrs Ouwehand asked to say goodbye to the old thinking and to go all the way to energy saving, and to shut down gas houses. She asked to go all the way to renewable energy. I think that's exactly what we're doing. We have long thought that we did not have to worry about the effects of using fossil energy. In the meantime, we have found out all over the world that we have to worry about that. We need to make that transition to renewable energy. We are very convinced of the need for it and we are very committed to that transition. I feel very much supported by a large majority of the Chamber. Mrs Ouwehand also asked whether I would ultimately opt for coal or new energy. I choose new energy. At least there should be no coal-fired power stations. Five out of ten coal plants must be shut down. Furthermore, I believe it is important to work in Europe to phase out the remaining coal plants at the pace necessary and justified in the context of the transition to renewable energy. This must be done in such a way that coal-fired power stations which are the most polluting are first put out of operation. The coal-fired power stations with the highest efficiency must be decommissioned last. I would like to make an agreement on this in Europe. Mr. Chairman. This was what I wanted to put forward in my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u346	Thank you very much for your extremely comprehensive answer. I have found that the Chamber is prepared to speed up the second term, and that we are therefore going to keep that second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u347	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court had previously ruled in favour of:]] [[a European binding renewable energy target per Member State (33858, No. 23, Van Tongeren/Dik Faber);]] [[aim for purely selling emission-free (new) cars in 2025 (30196, no. 449, Jan Vos c.s.);]] [[phase-out of all coal plants in the Netherlands (34302, No. 99, Van Weyenberg/Van Veldhoven);]] [[the provision of new SDE+ grant for biomass by- and mostly in coal-fired power stations to cease as soon as possible or as soon as possible (31239, no. 230, Jan Vos c.s.);]] [[calls on the Government to amend its Energy Agenda in accordance with the dictates of the above-mentioned motions and to send the Chamber its amended Energy Agenda in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Jan Vos, Van Veldhoven, Dik-Faber, Ouwehand and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-509]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u348	My second motion concerns something which the Minister has promised a little bit, but which I would like to make even more firmer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the 2016 progress report, the Energy Agreement Committee asked the government to investigate an additional offshore wind farm for 2023;]] [[whereas wind at sea has fallen enormously in cost and should be among the spearheads of Dutch energy policy;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation as soon as possible into the possibility of an additional offshore wind farm for 2023, e.g. IJmuiden Ver,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-510]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u349	Mr. Chairman. Energy transition is, of course, about more than energy; Mr Ouwehand has already mentioned it. It's about people, of course. It is about people with administrative activities, such as administrators in the municipalities and provinces. I am glad to hear that the Minister also believes that there is an important role to be played. I hope all the municipalities and provinces that are going to actively pick up and put the spa in the ground. These are people who work in the new industries that are going to rise up with renewable energy and make society more sustainable. These are people who are working in universities and in rooms afterwards to invent all kinds of things and do smart things, which offer all the opportunities for the Netherlands to move forward. These clever things can then be turned into work here. These are teachers, who are working in primary and secondary schools to raise awareness of sustainability among young people and children, thereby improving the basis for sustainability in the future. But it is also about people working in coal power stations and in the coal spillover in ports. They hear their job disappears and worry about it. They say: it is easy to say that a coal power station can be shut down, but what happens to my work? It is also about people who see the visible consequences of sustainability directly in their environment. These are all people we have to take into account, who are concerned but who also see opportunities and have ambitions. The VVD thinks we should support those people. We also need to look at how to make innovations more effective. Finally. "Off the gas" is often said. We must be careful to pull the gas infrastructure that we can still use out of the ground. People must continue to think that biogas, hydrogen gas and all other forms of gas can also be used. If the infrastructure is still good, we should not just pull it out of the ground. It still needs careful consideration. We need to get rid of natural gas and fossil gas, but we need to think about the future, where we need to do smart things with infrastructure and avoid unnecessary costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u350	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are targets for the quantity of renewable energy in 2020 and 2023 (14% and 16%) as well as the objective of achieving a fully sustainable energy supply by 2050 in the 2012 government agreement;]] [[Whereas in the intervening years there are no concrete targets for the amount of renewable energy and the government wants to focus on CO-reduction alone, but renewable energy and energy saving will be crucial in achieving that goal;]] [[calls on the government, citizens and entrepreneurs to give a perspective after 2023 by setting a credible intermediate target for the amount of renewable energy by 2030, with a minimum of 30% renewable energy in that year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after the energy agreement, the government intends to focus on CO-reduction alone;]] [[Considering that the main tool to steer CO reduction, the ETS, is not working properly and is not clear when it will be;]] [[Whereas in practice the government appears to be able to steer more effectively, including at national level, towards the objectives of renewable energy and energy saving;]] [[calls on the government to continue its current policy with the three separate and mutually reinforcing objectives for renewable energy, energy saving and CO reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-511]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jan Vos and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-512]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u351	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Paris Agreement still has a major challenge for CO reduction and that wind at sea can make an important contribution to this;]] [[Whereas wind at sea costs a great deal of preparation time;]] [[calls on the Government to include the option of using larger areas at once when exploring new search areas for the realisation of new wind farms at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas that government chooses to postpone the decision on coal-fired power stations;]] [[calls on the government to send a fact-finding account to the Chamber before the election recess, stating the serious options for phasing out coal power plants, the bottlenecks and the reasons why no solution has been found in the end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Energy Agreement includes the ambition to achieve top ten in the global CleanTech ranking by 2030 and to quadruple the economic value of the clean energy technology chain by 2020 compared to 2010;]] [[Whereas the growth of the green industry is still important for a successful energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to include these ambitions in the Energy Agenda and to participate in the further development of the Energy Agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the preferred alternative of the 380kV-North-West is cutting through valuable nature reserves and the Midday-Humsterland National Landscape, thereby threatening a decline in grazing birds;]] [[Whereas it is possible to cable part of the route with which these bottlenecks can be partially avoided;]] [[calls on the government to prevent the natural decline and to do so:]] [[either cable at least 10 kilometres from the 380kV North-West route in Groningen;]] [[agree with the region on a generous compensation of the affected natural area and a robust investment package to restore cultural historical objects in a three-mile zone on either side of the route and to strengthen landscape structures in a five-mile zone (including twenty-year management);]] [[and to inform the Chamber before the election recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-513]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-514]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-515]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u352	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the process for the realisation of the Drenthe Monden Oostermoer wind park did not go well in the beginning and that there was a great deal of unrest among residents;]] [[noting that the licences for this wind farm have already been issued;]] [[Whereas the provincial expedition has recently begun to live energy-neutrally, which can provide the basis for a plan in which investment in energy saving, housing quality and employment go hand in hand;]] [[Whereas promoters and the province of Drenthe contribute to an area fund and that a contribution from the Empire is appropriate;]] [[calls on the government, with local authorities and initiators, to establish a delta plan for Veenkoloniën, with maximum use for compensation and spatial integration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas smaller renewable energy projects often have less impact on the environment and can rely on a high level of public support;]] [[Considering that due to their smaller scale, the energy price for these projects is in many cases higher in economic terms than for large-scale projects;]] [[noting that, within the current SDE+ system, the economic energy price determines the granting of the subsidy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to make the societal costs of renewable energy projects understandable and to come up with a plan to weigh these societal costs into the conditions for granting them within the SDE+ system from 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in order to comply with the Paris climate agreement, the Netherlands must take drastic measures to reduce CO emissions;]] [[noting that the current ETS system and current price level of CO are not functioning and are not having the desired impact on the transition to a sustainable energy supply;]] [[Considering that adjusting the ETS at European level is too long and therefore there is no short-term view of increasing the price of CO to an effective level;]] [[calls on the government to take concrete steps to achieve effective CO pricing with a leading group of like-minded neighbours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-517]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-518]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-519]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u353	In an interruption, Mrs Dik-Faber said that coal power stations can be shut down immediately. If so, what is she doing with the people who work there? Those 4,000 people are gonna be on the street right now. What is the idea of the Christian Union towards the people who work there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u354	I have indeed said that the coal power stations can be shut down immediately. That was so to speak; let us not close the coal-fired power stations tomorrow, but in a very short time. I think there should be a transition plan for the people who work there. The challenge of working with renewable energy also creates a great deal of new jobs. For the people who work there, there must be a good social plan. We need to see if we can lead them to those new jobs. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u355	I always find it exciting when people say that something is said "in a manner of speaking" and that there is a time limit. What period is the Christian Union talking about? Is that a year, five years, ten years? What is the period envisaged by the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u356	My signature is with an amendment by Mr Jan Vos, which we will discuss in the process of examining the Progress Act on Energy Transition. As far as I'm concerned, the coal plants can really close very quickly: 2020, 2025. The amendment says 2030, but personally I think 2020 is a very real deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u357	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands needs its inhabitants for a sustainable energy supply, not only today but also in the future;]] [[whereas in Drenthe our inhabitants are not or hardly involved in the task of wind energy and the realization of the wind project in the Veenkoloniën and that this has created a huge resistance in local communities;]] [[calls on the government, the integration plan and environmental permits for the wind farm in the Veenkoloniën to withdraw and jointly with the province, municipalities and inhabitants to seek a new implementation of the renewable energy statement in Drenthe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-520]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u358	I have a few final remarks to make. I am pleased that we want to involve people from the bottom up in the energy transition for the future. That seems to us to be of the utmost importance. I've heard that a lot here tonight. They must then really get the room for that, because we also see how hugely wrong things can go. Then let this in Drenthe be the exception that confirms the rule. It's better halfway back than all the way down. I hope that the groups which supported Mr Smaling and Mr Vos' motion for a resolution before Christmas will also support the motion I have just tabled, so that butter can be added to the fish. I think it is good that the ETS is being improved. I am very curious about the letter that Minister will send to the House of Representatives. I think it is good to keep the three goals we have in Europe straight, but they must, of course, strengthen each other. Reduction of CO is the main objective, but we do need three goals. That's essential. Let it also come in bandwidths, because we know we have to take another step. Then we know what we can do, so we can make those bandwidths happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u359	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to file a motion that I've filed before. In view of the indignation on the part of various parties about not carrying out a motion on a period of reflection, I now expect broad support from those parties for this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to place windmills in the Drenthe Veenkoloniën,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-521]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u360	Finally, I would like to make a comment. I asked the Minister a very simple question: can he guarantee that with this energy subsidy policy energy will still be affordable for households in the future? The fact that he has difficulty answering that simple question confirms, in fact, what I have been warning about in the energy debates for four years, namely that this policy will make energy priceless for the citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u361	Mr. Chairman. It could go hard in the coming years with the transition from fossil to sustainable. I believe that much of what has been deployed in the Netherlands and what the Paris climate agreement offers us can quickly lead to a different society. It will also help if companies and banks see that and accelerate the transition. Then you get a snowball effect. The Rabobank recently announced that it would no longer be in coal. You should actually go to the North Sea as a kind of indoor pond where the UK, Denmark, Germany, Norway and the Netherlands will get their sustainable wind energy in the future. Given that you can make such a scale leap with forms of renewable energy that can be scaled up and multiplied, you can also say that you might have to delete wind farms like in Drenthe and Groningen. That is why I support Mrs Mulder's motion. The English say "penny wise pound foolish." See that with these plans you're not going to achieve what you're actually aiming for. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to receive the initiators of the Solar Park Veenkoloniën solar initiative, Stichting de Zonkoloniën and PowerField for a discussion. I have the feeling that we were not talking about the same reports just now. I would very much appreciate it if he would do that. I also very much appreciate the fact that the Minister has discussed in detail the motions he does not wish to carry out. I don't agree, but I do like that he made an effort to explain. I went into this debate with the feeling that for me this is pretty much the line I had to draw in view of the large amount of unexecuted motions, in particular the motion on the wind farms. It's high on me. I just think we're gonna make a wrong decision if we don't go halfway now and go completely astray. But I would like to leave my contribution to this and not the half-motion that threatened to bring it to fruition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u362	Mrs Ouwehand has signed off on the final tail of the debate. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has requested a half-hour suspension because a large number of motions have been tabled. I'll look him in the eye and ask him if we can finish it at about a quarter past twelve. I understand he'll try. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u363	We shall continue with the final part of the debate on future energy policy, namely the reply of the Minister in the second term. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u364	Mr. Chairman. May I first try to correct a shortcoming from the first term? I said that, in order to keep the pressure on the boiler, it is necessary to take additional measures in the Netherlands on the functioning of the ETS. I didn't get it together because I didn't have my notes ready at the time. Can I mention these points now, in order to inform the Chamber fully in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u365	Is that instead of the letter to be sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u366	Yes, I have already listed those points in the Energy Agenda at the transition paths. I think it is good that I refer briefly to that. It is about making it possible to organise and realise the wide application of CCS in industry. It is also important that we, together with all the parties involved, look much more than we are doing now at how we can use residual heat and also set up the whole organisation for that purpose. As far as innovation in industry is concerned, we want to move towards a multi-annual innovation programme focused on low-carbon and efficient heat use and on new products and circularity. That will be further developed. We are also thinking of broadening the SDE+ scheme to ensure that it is possible to use a more efficient and diverse toolbox. Then we want to use the approach we now have for wind at sea, also for tidal energy, for wind energy on land, for large-scale solar energy and for geothermal energy. This approach, namely the preliminary work done by the government and the companies that respond to it, has proved successful in the event of wind at sea. We believe that this approach will also be successful in these other forms of energy. Together with the North Sea countries, we also want to develop an approach to how we can organise, cost-effectively, the spatial integration of wind energy at sea for the whole of the North Sea. We also want to encourage local energy production. It is important and must be maintained. We have a mix of salads and the postcode rose scheme. Many local projects now use the SDE+ scheme. We want to look at this whole package again to see how it can make a greater contribution in the future. More generally, by January 2018, we will have to submit a plan to the European Commission for the preparation of the Paris agreements. It should indicate how we will achieve what we need to achieve by 2030. The cabinet has adopted the Energy Agenda. The Court has now expressed views on a number of points and will undoubtedly do so in the near future. In 2017 we will develop the transition paths for the four different forms of energy identified in the Energy Agenda. That is also what we do in interaction with the Chamber. We also include the opinion of the Chamber. We also need to look at how we can take them with us in those four transition paths. In the end, a piece is delivered to the European Commission. It seems to me that before we deliver that document to the European Commission, we should discuss it with the Chamber. Then the Chamber can also see through the transition paths how we have dealt with the input of the Chamber. I think that is a good way for us to organise it. I will also give a number of opinions on the motions for resolutions, but we intend to do so in this way. That was what I wanted to say in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u367	I only allow very brief interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u368	Thank you for this explanation. I'm still curious about the following. If ETS does not work at European level and the Minister also does not intend to tackle ETS in a leading group of European countries, does the Minister consider a national tax measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u369	The most important thing we can do is to ensure that ETS works as quickly as possible. The great ambition of Secretary of State Dijksma and I is to reduce the ETS ceiling by 2.2% a year. I'd really like to get that done. I am very willing, as I will say in the debate on one of the motions, to work out and advocate this jointly with a number of countries. I'd like to get it done in the ETS. So I don't want to do anything that undermines the ETS. This is how I plan to work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u370	It is late at night, but what the Minister announces is very special. He says that the successful way of contracting for wind at sea will also be applied to other forms of renewable energy. When the Minister is ready, I would like to learn more about it in the form of more information. I understand it's a little fresh now, but I think it's very good news. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u371	I am glad to be able to satisfy Mr Vos on that point. In recent years, we have gained a lot of experience in achieving the objectives that we have set ourselves, that we have been imposed on and that we have agreed with others. We must take advantage of these experiences. By wind at sea, we've noticed that the government can do far more forework than we did before. Business can then focus entirely on what it is good at. That worked well with winds at sea, so why wouldn't winds work on land or geothermals? That's why we want to do it as I just said. I am glad that this is supported by Mr Vos. That's very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u372	I assume you're going to deal with the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u373	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u374	I shall then first give Mrs Van Veldhoven the floor on these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u375	I forgot to mention that Mrs Van Tongeren is a co-signator of the motion in part No. 515 on top ten positions in the global CleanTech ranking. In the motion in part No. I ask for a ruling from the Chamber on something on which the Chamber does not really have to give a ruling. Whatever is asked can be transferred to the cabinet. This is a request for information. Bearing in mind Rule 68, the Chamber is entitled to information, so I would ask the President to pass on the stenogram of this section to the Cabinet. There doesn't need to be an address in the Chamber. It is about information that I asked about the coal power stations. That would mean that the motion could lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u376	The motion in part No. 514 will therefore be withdrawn if I forward the short-term report, in particular, of this interruption to the cabinet, which will be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u377	I have something similar. At the motion in part No. 509 I have mistakenly not mentioned Mr Smaling as a signatory. So I would like to add him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u378	That too is being done. I understand the Minister wants to respond to these interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u379	I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution. 514, on which I do not have to give advice because it has been withdrawn, make a comment. Together with the energy companies and all other stakeholders, I have carried out a large number of studies on the coal plants. I sent them all to the Chamber, with the advice of the social parties. Individually, members of the sounding board have all given advice. I also sent the Chamber the results of the decision-making process in the Cabinet. So I've given all the available information to the Chamber. I do not see any possibility of sending additional information to the Chamber on this point. So this is it now, as far as I am concerned, in relation to coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u380	I shall then perhaps ask in writing what is more specific about what the Minister has not yet sent and which I think would be useful if the Chamber were to know. Indeed, he sent the reports, as did a letter on the final outcome. In between there is a hole of about six months. It's interesting to know what's been going on in the conversations. Now that the Minister has indicated that he does not wish to answer this general question, I will specify the request by means of parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u381	Now, as far as I'm concerned, we're going to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u382	With the motion in part No. I have a problem concerning Mr Vos' signature in particular. Mr Vos is a representative of the Labour Party, one of the two coalition groups. As a cabinet, we adopted the Energy Agenda and responded to the motions we discussed earlier this evening. That's it for the cabinet. On emissions-free cars, on coal-fired power stations, on biomass, on the target per Member State, on CO and not on three different goals, the cabinet has made choices. We have also supported this in the Energy Agenda and in letters to the Chamber. So I'm not going to come back to that. Those are the cabinet positions. With regard to the development of the Energy Agenda, I would like to say the following. That Energy Agenda, that section of the cabinet, is there. The transition paths will be further developed. In the end, the document goes to the European Commission and we will discuss it with the Chamber in advance. We will also try to process the results of the further consultations that will undoubtedly take place in the year 2017 as well as possible. As a cabinet at the moment, to distance ourselves from all the letters we have sent to the Chamber on a number of difficult points and from the Energy Agenda and the choice we have made for sending on COtenin order to do it all differently, I can say that this will not happen. The Chamber may adopt such a motion, but that puts me in a position to explain to the Chamber what I have just tried to explain in my oral response to this motion. My conclusion is that I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u383	Mrs Van Tongeren, do you have a question about the Minister's opinion on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u384	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u385	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u386	I think this is a rather fundamental point in the relationship between the Minister and the House of Representatives. In the motions we are asking for something for the future. So it's not like we're asking for the stante pede to be carried out. We ask you to do that in an agenda, a vision document. The Chamber shall propose four motions in which it shall request the majority of its members to include those items in the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u387	The argument is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u388	So the Minister does not accept the constitutional relations, I have to conclude, which I can hardly imagine from this minister. Is the Minister not prepared to look into how this can be included in a future agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u389	The cabinet held an energy dialogue after the Energy Agreement. We then drew up the Energy Agenda for the period 2023-2050. We have made the choice to send on CO. We believe that this way we can do energy efficiency and renewable energy in the most efficient way. That is the conviction of the cabinet that we have set out in the Energy Agenda. With regard to biomass, coal-fired power stations and emission-free cars, we also indicated in letters to the Chamber what we see as opportunities and what we are going to do about them. Then the Chamber could write in a motion that we should all do this differently, but I would like to state what the cabinet's position is. So if there is any deviation from that Energy Agenda and from those letters that we sent to the Chamber, then on behalf of the cabinet I have to defend that Energy Agenda and those letters that we have sent and say that we think it is important that we do it in the manner I have just explained and as we wrote it in the letters and worked out in the Energy Agenda. That does not mean that we would not be prepared to discuss with the Chamber any further developments and let the Chamber influence us. We see what is possible and then we can discuss it with each other. This can happen in the course of this year if we are to develop those four transition paths for those four different forms of energy. We'll be in touch with the Chamber about that, too. We will end up with a piece that we will first discuss with the Chamber and then send to the European Commission. That's what I can reasonably do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u390	But you're sticking to your judgment on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u391	Yes. In the motion in part No. 510 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Vos, the Cabinet is invited to carry out an investigation as soon as possible into the possibility of an additional wind farm at sea before 2023. I don't understand that motion. Year after year, five times in a row, for the last time in 2019, we are deciding on wind farms at sea of 700 megawatts. The last decision in 2019 should lead to that last wind farm running in 2023. Now I have said that in the year 2020 we will make our first decision for a series of seven parks of 1,000 megawatts each. That first park will then start running immediately after 2023 in the year 2024. I submit to the Chamber that I am going to do so and then I get a motion stating that I have to build an additional wind farm in 2023. What am I supposed to do with that? If you build 5x700 and immediately then 7x1,000, what's not good enough? That's a mystery to me. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 511 again belongs to Mr Vos, this time together with Mrs Van Veldhoven. It says that the government should give citizens and entrepreneurs a perspective after 2023 by setting an intermediate target for the amount of renewable energy by 2030, with a minimum of 30% of renewable energy in that year. So that is contrary to what we have laid down in the energy agreement. Appointments have been made for the period up to 2023. We'll stick to that, too. I think it is now clear that the three different goals do not lead to you achieving the ultimate goal in the most efficient way at the lowest cost. The goal is climate control. You then have to make sure that there are fewer greenhouse gases, so less CO emissions. By controlling CO emissions, you can optimally ensure energy savings and sustainable energy. What is being asked here, namely to do it differently, is at odds with what is in the Energy Agenda. That is why I must reject the motion that Mr Vos has also tabled, even as the first signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u392	I'm a little hesitant about what I'd like to ask the Minister. In the past, ECN and PBL have investigated the threefold objective. That was also cabinet policy, but that has changed now. The PvdA Group attaches great importance to government policy as it was. We thought it was important as it was and we appreciate the new line of the cabinet less. Industry and, in particular, businesses often ask for the 2030 target from the point of view of investment security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u393	Your point is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u394	My question to the Minister is simply to consider this again calmly. I think that this can best be given to the cabinet from the Chamber in the form of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u395	I absolutely disagree with Mr Vos. This is an important point. In the Energy Agenda, there is reason to opt for CO-driven action and thus to do justice to renewable energy and energy efficiency. That is the position of the cabinet, which is laid down in the plan for 2023-2050. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 511. She's at odds with what I just said. The motion in part No. 512 had been tabled by Mr Vos and Mrs Mulder. It states that there should be three separate objectives. In my opinion on the motion for a resolution, in part No. 511 already said I'd betray it. I therefore also advise against the motion in part No. 512, which has a similar content. In the motion in part No. 513 asks Mrs Van Veldhoven to do research into new search areas for the realisation of new wind farms at sea, taking the option of spending large wind farms at once. Besides the 5x700 we have also designated other areas, including IJmuiden Ver. I have already indicated that, as far as implementation is concerned, we will be doing so from 2024 onwards. We have thus recorded the period 2024-2031. To now, in 2017, explore new search areas... These search areas are broadly defined and are already recorded on maps. I'd like to exchange with the Chamber what's happening on the basis of this motion. I don't see that. However, there is nothing in it that I have any immediate difficulty with, so I will leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I do not really see the added value of this motion. This is mainly because we have a very clear line for wind at sea which, I think, is exemplary for other countries and to which we want to give an extra acceleration. We're holding on to that consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u396	"Judge Room" so, but it comes out a little cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u397	It is very economical, Mr President. The motion in part No. 514 has been revoked. With the motion in part No. 515 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren, the government is invited to include a number of ambitions in the Energy Agenda and the further development of the Energy Agenda. Then it's about the global CleanTech ranking, but it doesn't exist anymore. It's not gonna go on anymore. The Energy Agreement Committee will consider how to give hands and feet to a relevant indicator. She's still working on it. After all, the Netherlands wants to take the lead in everything that is happening in the field of renewable energy. We'll see what we can use as an indicator and how we can work it out further. With these nuances, we will involve this in the further development of the Energy Agenda in the four transition paths. If this is in line with what Mrs Van Veldhoven means, then I will leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u398	I would just like to say that Mrs Van Veldhoven nods in response to the interpretation given by the Minister. Then we go to the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 516.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u399	The motion in part No. 516 is about Groningen. I have indicated that we are going to bring 110kV underground in Groningen after an intermediate step 10 km. In addition, we have 40 km 220kV connection. The region says you should bring 10 km of that underground. I said it would cost between 105 million and 135 million. That didn't stand up in the trade-off. So I don't want to do that. I'd like to compensate for nature and the landscape. I have given a great deal of thought to this by making 5 million available for nature and 7 million for the landscape. We use an area of 1.5 km at the lines where compensation is organised. Here we talk about 5 km in the strengthening of landscape structures. So this goes far beyond what we do elsewhere in the country. Here we bring some underground. Here comes a new leadership in place of the existing leadership. That new leadership is made up of fewer masts. Instead of 66 houses, there will be only 3 houses in the magnetic zone. So we're going a long way. We also go a long way in terms of the 5 million and the 7 million. I would like to leave it at that. That means I'm deceiving this motion. I come to the motion by Mr Dik Faber/Van Tongeren on part No. 517 in which the government is invited to establish a Delta Plan Veenkoloniën with local authorities and initiators, with maximum use being made of compensation and spatial integration. We have gone through this whole procedure carefully. We have taken ample time to do so and we have done what is necessary to ensure that in this area we enable the province of Drenthe to fill in what she has agreed with us. That agreement was about a certain amount of wind on land in the year 2020. In doing so, we apply the code of conduct. That is what the code of conduct has been designed for. I see no reason to set up a delta plan for that. However, I believe that it should be properly implemented in consultation with the people in the area, given the amount of €380,000 available for this purpose. I would like the province of Drenthe to talk about this with the people in the area and that agreements are made on it. There's been a good procedure. The code of conduct has been correctly implemented. What is in this motion, as it were, goes beyond that. I don't think this is right. That's why I advise against this motion. In the motion-Dik Faber/Van Tongeren to piece No. 518 The government is invited to indicate how the societal costs of renewable energy projects can be made clear in the SDE+ system. We have set up the current SDE+ system after all the lessons we have learned with the SDE and the MEP. We subsidise the uneconomic summit and we encourage the initiators concerned with the various possibilities of renewable energy to compete with each other in terms of price. In doing so, we are trying to ensure that the costs of renewable energy are not higher for the citizens than is absolutely necessary. It is a good arrangement, which comes from the evaluation and is taken as an example abroad. I think it would be very unwise to change that scheme and allow social costs to be taken into account. You're really gonna hurt the arrangement. The social costs are relevant and they are in the picture at the EIA. This is one of the aspects addressed by the EIA. I think we should leave the SDE+ as it is, so the motion in part No. 518 I don't recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u400	I recall that in the letter the Minister indicated that some of the projects that were desirable did not come from the system of the SDE+, for example small-scale innovative projects, because they were not yet profitable. They do have the credits of the public, but they are not yet covered. I can imagine that we will adapt the SDE+ so that this type of project can also be addressed. How else does the Minister indicate the sentences he wrote in his letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u401	For the smaller projects we have the postcode rose scheme in particular. He's perfect for that. We must be very careful not to change the SDE+ in such a way that we are going to implement projects that are actually too expensive via the SDE+. A great deal of money has to be spent to make the transition to renewable energy, but then we would be spending even more money, more than is necessary. In my opinion, this weakens a well-functioning arrangement. We certainly need to look at broadening the SDE+, but this must be done in such a way that we keep the costs of the transition to renewable energy as low as possible. I am not in favour of a change in the scheme with the aim of subsidising projects which are actually too expensive. That is why, with the explanations I have just given, I have tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 518 dissuade. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 519 calls on the government to take concrete steps to achieve effective CO pricing with a leading group of like-minded neighbouring countries to enable CO emission control. I would like to do that, if it were to aim to work with other countries to strengthen the European ETS system and to work better quickly, even faster than the measures already taken. But if you read the recitals, it turns out that there is more to it and that it is the intention to do something that I believe would undermine the ETS system. That wouldn't be wise. I think it is very sensible to improve the ETS system and to work with other countries in it. In the meantime, we must ensure that, despite the fact that the ETS system is not yet so effective for us, the Netherlands is still doing additional things, as I was able to pass on to the Chamber at the beginning of my second term, with your permission, Mr President. The motion in part No. 519 I therefore advise against. In the motion-Agnes Mulder/Smaling in part No. 520 requests the government to withdraw the plan for the wind farm in Drenthe. I've already indicated that I don't want to do that and that I don't think it's wise. I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion tabled for the second time by Mrs Klever, on item No. 521, in which she asks not to place windmills in Drenthe. I have agreed with the province of Drenthe that we will place windmills in Drenthe. I also agreed with the IPO, so together with all the provinces. It's part of the energy agreement, and I intend to live up to that agreement. I therefore also advise against this motion, by Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u402	This brings us to the end... Mr Smaling has one more question. You've got a lot of nerve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u403	I had kept a few reports in the air asking the Minister to enter into the conversation with the companies and initiators of solar parks in Drenthe and to inform the Chamber. I'd really like the Minister to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u404	I'd be happy to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-21.u405	I would like to thank the Minister very much, and I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
