ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, last week, Israel showed itself to be off the hook, when it had its soldiers destroy a Dutch development project in the West Bank. It was solar panels and other equipment that provided the electricity supply of a Palestinian village. Israel decided to confiscate and partially destroy these goods. It concerned the Palestinian village of Jubbet adh Dhib, surrounded by illegal settlements, which are connected to the electricity network and where the Israeli minister Lieberman lives. But this Palestinian village was apparently not allowed to have any kind of energy supply. It's not the first time this has happened. In the period September 2016 to February 2017, i.e. in six months, 117 development projects have been destroyed; almost five per week. Last year I also asked questions about the destruction of Palestinian water resources by Israel. We discussed it during the debate on the Foreign Affairs Council in March last year. It is a trend, I say, which is structuralally undermining the viability of the two-state solution. On the one hand, Israel is building settlements in the occupied territories. Already 70% of Area C is occupied that way. On the other hand, only less than 1% has been identified by Israel as an area for Palestinian development. That is why I have called earlier for this to be addressed at European level. I know that other European countries have the same problem. The Minister raised it within the European Union, but we see, unfortunately, that Israel is continuing to demolish. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. 1. Does he agree that this goes against international law? 2. What does he think of this action by our ally Israel? 3. Has the Minister protested at political level and, if so, what was Israel's response? 4. Has the Minister already claimed compensation? 5. How will the Minister ensure that the seized goods are returned unconditionally and immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to give the following answers to the questions put. The cabinet strongly disapproves of Israel's seizure. The solar panels and the supporting equipment are part of a larger project where ten Palestinian villages in the West Bank have access to electricity. The people in that village were not connected to the electricity grid, while Israel as occupying power has an obligation to provide basic humanitarian needs. With this project, the Netherlands provides for this need. The seizure is simply unacceptable. We have made this quite clear. The embassy in Tel Aviv immediately protested strongly against this confiscation. Prime Minister Rutte spent the weekend with Prime Minister Netanyahu. We have therefore raised this at the highest level. The Prime Minister said he'd come back and figure this out. We are talking to the Israeli authorities at all levels to get the stuff back. The executing organisation will take legal steps to reverse the confiscation. The cabinet is and remains very concerned about the high number of cases where Palestinians' homes or other property have been demolished in the Palestinian territories. We have regularly intervened on this issue in Tel Aviv. The Chamber was informed of this, in line with the Knops motion adopted here in the Chamber on 9 July 2016. It is perhaps important to add that the Netherlands and the European Union are pressing for the development of Area C for the benefit of the Palestinians. That is precisely where we are trying to strengthen cooperation between the Palestinians and Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	I thank the Minister for this clear answer. I would also like to thank him for his clear position on behalf of the Netherlands, not only at the level of the embassy, but also, as the minister himself says, at the level of the Prime Minister. I can only hope that Israel, which we consider to be an ally, while Israel considers us to be an ally, will respond to that and not just to this specific Dutch project. I hope that Israel will break this trend because it is a trend and it is a downward trend of destruction.............................................................................................................................................................................................. If Israel doesn't... I am not only concerned with our own taxpayers' money, but I myself am quite disgusted that taxpayers' money is being wasted in this way. I am concerned about the trend, about the viability of the Palestinian State and also about the fact that the viability of the two-state solution is being grossly undermined in this way. If the Israelis come back to either the Prime Minister or this Minister with text and explanation, but hopefully also with the goods, preferably with compensation and a flower for those involved, then I would very much appreciate it if this Minister would look into what was at the basis of this decision by the Israelis. Why does Israel decide to remove electricity that serves a school, which runs a clinic with which children do their homework? Israel must explain this once and for all, because it cannot be because of the licensing system, which does not make any sense, because Israel itself does nothing against all these illegal settlements that are also built without a permit. So I'd like to hear two things from this minister. Firstly, what is Israel going to do in response to the Prime Minister's appeal, for which, by the way, much thanks? Secondly, what story does Israel actually have in these arbitrary destructive actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	On the first point, therefore, the Dutch Government not only protested, but also raised it at the highest level. We're really gonna turn this down, and we're gonna get that stuff back. Of course, that means that I have to wait for the answer to that question. I cannot go into the position of the Israeli Government on this point. What the Israeli Government sees as a reason for this is something that the Israeli Government itself must bring forward. In any case, we do not think that this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's obvious. So far, so clear. I would like to hear the Israeli Government's response to this request. I understand that we are not hearing this today and perhaps not tomorrow either, but I think it is important that Israel responds quickly to this request from a Prime Minister and also in a way that does justice to the Dutch efforts and to what the Dutch taxpayer can expect from an ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Sjoerdsma is right about that, and I would also point out that, from the Dutch Government, we are the Prime Minister, but also myself, working with the Palestinians and the Israeli Government on a number of issues relating to water, energy and gas supplies, in order to bring the parties closer together. That is also quite successful, but this behavior of course does not help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	I also find it incredibly important that the Palestinians receive electricity and energy, not only on the West Bank, but above all in Gaza, where this is very much on the agenda. Unfortunately, this is made impossible by the Palestinian Authority. Fortunately, the Netherlands plays a constructive role in this, with the tripartite agreement in September, which this minister also invested in. That constructive role is precisely what my question is about, because how constructive is it, I ask the Minister, if you do not announce those solar panels and no permit has been applied for? Then they are technically illegal and the Netherlands is always there as the chickens to fight anything illegal in Area C, but does not do so in this case. So a bit one can expect that reaction. In other words, how wise does this minister consider that he has not announced those solar panels and that no permit has been applied for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	I don't have a problem with that. The Netherlands leaves it up to the implementing organisations to coordinate with the Israeli authorities. The executive had previously informed the army in broad terms about the project, without getting a response. That is also the behaviour of the United Nations and all development organisations. The figures of the Quartet show that there are hardly any licences issued. In 2014, Israel issued one licence, none in 2015. We have discussed this with the Israeli Government on a regular basis. The Dutch Government has even tried to obtain pilot permits for a project up to the highest level. These experiences are not positive. After six months of waiting, Israel made a negative decision. So getting permits is an unstoppable road. We really think that this material should be returned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	I do not believe there is anything wrong with the Dutch response on this particular point. It's good, fast and adequate. What is missing is an effective strategy to break this pattern of destruction and harassment, if I may describe them as such. Because of course it is not about this one isolated case. Would the Minister have an opportunity to look again with his colleagues in the EU, for example, regardless of the reaction we are about to get from the Prime Minister of Israel, whether we can effectively break this pattern?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	So far it has not been possible, as I say in all honesty. That is why I think it is sensible that the Dutch Government and the Prime Minister should respond to the way they have done so. That pattern is not stopped, despite regular, highly diplomatic protests from the Dutch side. We are in close contact with other Member States on this issue. It has also been agreed that EU Member States can help each other. Asking for support from other Member States is one of the options we are also considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Dutch Government on its response to this point. It's not the first time we've talked about this. I do not think it matters very much whether or not a permit has been granted. Even in situations where licences were granted, action was taken in the past. My question in this case is very specific: is it true that since 1988 the inhabitants of this village have been trying to get electricity connections and that this has been refused every time? How does the Minister consider that, in relation to the rights that can be derived from humanitarian international law, these people should be able to obtain these facilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	I can't confirm the exact year number. In any case, the population there lives in a very abominable situation in terms of energy supplies. Some of the people live in caves. The Dutch Government, together with others, has taken responsibility for helping people there. Of course, Israel, as an occupying force, is committed to ensuring that people are able to live well and must, in any case, be able to meet the basic humanitarian conditions. That is not the case now. That is why we do not think this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	If I understand correctly, the case will be brought before an Israeli judge. I assume the Minister has full confidence in the Israeli rule of law. Well, at least I do. I think all this yelling about what would be wrong and what should happen is premature. I don't understand why we can't wait for a judge's ruling on this. My question to the Minister concerns another premature issue. I understand the Minister is giving money for projects he knows there is no permit. I think that's quite a stupid way of dealing with Dutch taxpayers' money, because you know you're taking the risk of that shit being broken down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	Quite apart from the question of whether or not he thinks that there should or should not be built there, I ask the Minister whether he also thinks that he is simply putting Dutch taxpayers' money at risk unwisely by using this way to spend money on projects...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u17	...he knows there's no permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u18	No, I don't think that's unwise. I am glad that in the second part of his speech Mr De Roon is standing up for the Dutch taxpayer's interest. At first, he didn't seem to care so much. I have just explained that the Dutch Government has tried to do so in various ways, and that is true of all international organisations, the United Nations and EU partners, in order to do so with permits. I would like to point out that the executive organisation had informed the military on all fronts about the project without having any reaction to it. It happens all the time that we do it that way. This is one of the first times that this has been done on the basis of a case in which no legal action has been brought by the Israeli side. In that sense, it is quite different than in some other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr De Roon asks a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you, because I do not really think it is an answer to my question. The fact remains that money is being given for a project which the Minister does not know whether or not there is a permit. So the Minister is consciously taking the risk of being taken away and impounded. I think that is a stupid and unwise way of dealing with our taxpayers' taxpayers' money. I call on the government to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u21	We will certainly not do that. Nor do the United Nations, the European Union and all kinds of development organisations. It is important that we have an obligation to help people in the occupied territories in the way we do it now. Of course, we are in close contact with the Israeli Government. It's a friendly country, so we're gonna talk to them about it. However, I find this method of operation unacceptable. These are people who have been out of energy for 30 or 40 years, whereas the Israeli Government does not take responsibility for this and then refuse any permit. Yeah, it'll stop soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u22	There is total lawlessness. Illegal settlements are being expanded. International law is being violated. Israel is destroying solar panels with which we are trying to help women there. The State of Israel is working critical journalists out of the country. This must indeed be kept to a minimum. I welcome the reaction of the cabinet to protest, but what are the follow-up steps? Is it true that the Minister demands that the panels be placed back and that all damage is compensated? Is the Minister prepared to attach the conditions to the EU-Israel Association Council that destruction must stop and, if not, that we will not allow that council to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u23	On the first point: that is indeed the government's line. I think that stuff should be returned. It is now being discussed with the Israeli Government as I have just indicated. As far as the EU Association Council is concerned, apart from the fact that it is not planned at the moment, I think that you should use an EU Association Council to raise these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr Van Ojik has just indicated that there has been a pattern for a very long time, perhaps since 1988. In the last six months, 117 projects have been destroyed. I think that can only be solved at European level. I just heard you say that you see little movement in the position of your European colleagues. How do you qualify this setup? Do we leave the Palestinians to their fate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u25	It is not a question of giving qualifications to behavior of all kinds of allies in the EU. Here too we are working together on the same line, but not everyone is in it. There are countries that have different positions. National foreign policy is still national. We can only try to coordinate that. As you know, there are always very different political positions in this problem: pro-Israel, pro-Palestinian, pro this and pro that. The most important thing is that we focus here on the matter itself, namely the destruction and confiscation of sensible projects. We do not agree with that. We have protested against this and we will continue to do so. That's what we did at the highest level. We will also discuss this with our EU counterparts, because it is important that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you.
