ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks, for her question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would like to welcome in trade union K. Mrs Westerveld's question concerns the use of the money intended for children in poor families. I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's say you're 5 and you want to go to swimming class, like your neighbor, but your parents tell you to wait a few more years because it's way too expensive. Or you're 6 and your class goes on a school trip and you're the only one in the class who can't go because your parents can't afford the voluntary parental contribution, which often isn't that voluntary. Or you're gonna be 7 and you're gonna want to throw a party and invite your classmates to go to the zoo with them, but you can't. In fact, you can't throw a party at all, because we're out of money. Mr. Chairman. These examples are not taken from the sky. 400,000 children live in low-income families. So this is about one in eight children. Those numbers are known here a little longer. That is why the previous Secretary of State for Social Affairs decided to allocate 100 million in structural terms, money specifically intended for these children. Because we all know that money often disappears when it comes to the big pot, it has been specifically agreed on these funds to be paid in kind, but that municipalities are free to use precisely. Now it appears that the money did not end up with these children in many places, because municipalities also have deficits in other areas. This is, of course, partly a matter for municipal councils, because they have to check that the municipality pays it out in a good way. That is why I would also like to call on council members who happen to be listening to me to check, above all, their own municipal administration, but it is also a matter for us, because this is a matter of money on which agreements have been made. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what she thinks about money intended for children, for example, going to lampposts. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the money is spent in the way it is intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Poverty among children is poignant. I recognize the examples presented by Mrs Westerveld and I have also seen Nieuwsuur. You're gonna let any kid in on it. That is also what we are all concerned about. I am not from the school that poverty does not exist in the Netherlands, but I am not the type that thinks poverty can be solved with a blueprint from The Hague. That is precisely why we have made agreements with municipalities. With effect from 1 January 2017, the previous cabinet has structurally released EUR 100 million per year, intended to reach and support all children who grow up in a family with low disposable income and who cannot now participate because of lack of money. It was also rightly said: with facilities in kind. Of these funds, €85 million is structurally available to municipalities through a decentralisation grant. That comes on top of the money they already had available for their poverty policies. Administrative agreements were reached with the VNG on the deployment of these funds on 11 November 2016. It has also been agreed that the municipalities report to the city council on the use of these resources, the instruments but also the results achieved. In addition, we also agreed that we should evaluate together. We're gonna do that in a few months. Then we have a final evaluation in 2021. As far as I am concerned, the evaluation we are going to carry out in a few months' time, in 2018, will also provide a good opportunity to discuss this progress together with local authorities, but also whether it is desirable to update the criteria. It is important to me that poverty policy is decentralised to municipalities. Decentralizing is also letting go. I have confidence in the co-governments and I think it is important that municipalities have sufficient room for tailor-made work to tackle child poverty, because that is what we all need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. I would like to stress that we are not opposed to policy freedom, which also means that municipalities can do more, that they can spend more money. That is urgently needed as long as there are children living in poverty. We are not in favour of a blueprint from The Hague either, but if it turns out that it is not going well, that there is not enough money for these children, then we think that The Hague should also check the agreements we have made to spend money on those children, to give money to municipalities so that they can spend it on children again. So we have to check that money is in the right place. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if they can also support municipalities, because I can imagine that municipalities may not have an idea of how to reach those children and how to ensure that the money is put in the right place. So the Secretary of State wants to support the municipalities in that? I also ask the Secretary of State if she might have a number of hand-outs for municipal councils, so that municipal councils can also better check their municipal administration when it comes to whether this money, which is intended for children living in poverty, ends up in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's okay to stay in conversation anyway. I therefore attach great importance to the evaluation that we have in the short term. In fact, that evaluation is already under way. I therefore propose that we continue the discussion on this evaluation. I'll inform the Chamber when the evaluation has taken place. As far as I am concerned, as I said in the first round, we are drawing that evaluation a little wider by actually looking at those criteria. On the one hand, there is a variety of measures to be taken by municipalities. We saw examples of that in Nieuwsuur. There are municipalities that say: we have to do more. There are municipalities that say: we don't really need it, we deposit it back. I would like to discuss this with municipalities on the basis that decentralisation is letting go. But perhaps the embedding should also be wider in participation policy. How can you use poverty policies to increase people's participation? I would therefore like to take advantage of the evaluation to have this discussion, as Mrs Westerveld proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Then my last words. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State also says that poverty exists, that in the Netherlands we are just dealing with a lot of children who live in poverty and that it is good that we say from The Hague that we should do something about it, that we should ensure that municipalities can also help those children. I am partly in agreement with the words that decentralising is letting go of that, as I said just now, because we do have to check from The Hague whether the money is being spent properly. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she could say a little more about the evaluation. When's that gonna happen? What exactly does she want to take into that evaluation? She said she wants to see what communities do for children. I would also ask her to look a little more closely at how much of the money is being spent. In addition, the precise role of the municipal councils should be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	As mentioned above, the administrative arrangements were made on 11 November 2016. The signatures were signed by my predecessor and by the Association of Dutch Municipalities. These agreements state how these funds are handled. There is a first evaluation in 2018, which is going on. I've already referred to it. A final evaluation will then be carried out in 2021. So there are certainly a number of moments coming to involve this. I would certainly also like to look more closely at how the money is spent. I would like to do this on the basis of what I outlined earlier, so a little broader with regard to these criteria and the decentralised poverty policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	400,000 children in the Netherlands live around or below the poverty line. We see a problem with each other, we allocate additional resources to it and we have been discussing for almost ten years how we can put municipalities into their power to solve the problem or to contribute to the solution. The concerns we have expressed in the past are becoming true. Municipalities do not spend all the resources they get to combat child poverty. One way in which you could enforce that is to make it a target benefit, so that municipalities have to spend the money on poverty reduction among children. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	There are many ways to implement policies. The municipalities deal with it in many different ways. Now there's extra money. We are going to look at its use, but of course much more is happening in the city. It is financed directly and indirectly. Besides the government alone, there are still many funds, initiatives and volunteers working together to reach children. It concerns not only children with parents in a benefit situation, but also the group just outside. You will only have put a cottage with a hat for a year to buy that iPhone for your child and then see that other children are reached through an arrangement. I'd like to include it in that broad field of vision. I agree with Mr Kuzu that this is an issue that we will have to keep in mind. The solution goes beyond just making a target benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Kuzu's second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	Correct chairman. Look, the point is that we've been saying to each other for a long time: we need an evaluation. That evaluation is planned for spring. Then we can discuss it further. But we have a problem here. Aldermen in the country say shoulder-picking: yes, we as a municipality make other choices. That is exactly what we have warned against in the past. Isn't it time to let go of this noncommittality and say: boys and girls, here's the problem and here's what we're gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	A set of agreements was made on the use of these funds in November 2016. We're going to evaluate it in early 2018. So that's short notice. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna have the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	If municipal money for poverty reduction is not spent on poverty reduction, it is a bad thing and the Secretary of State must simply ensure that that money goes well. That can be done very well; look at Amsterdam, they are doing fine. But the real news is, of course, that there is poverty in the Netherlands; 400,000 children no matter what. Wouldn't it be wonderful for the Secretary of State to draw up a plan to ensure that all those people with the lowest incomes get out of poverty, so that they don't have to work with all this kind of poverty? Then you have a win-win situation. I'm hoping for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	I share that ambition, but I think that we have certainly made a very nice set of commitments in the coalition agreement, precisely to combat poverty. We also do this in a broader way than just with jars. I am thinking, for example, of linking up all these different decentralisations, so that we really put our hands on them for people in trouble. So I would like to get to work there, with that task. One of the reasons why I want to take a broader look at these criteria is precisely to prevent us all from making different jars, which makes us think "we have put a label on them, we have arranged that again." While you're actually skipping your target. So I would like to stick to the agreements in the coalition agreement and indeed to take a broad look at this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	100 million have been allocated to help 400,000 children in the Netherlands who, unfortunately, are still living in poverty, to combat poverty. It is not for nothing that the Secretary of State pointed out that the previous Secretary of State made agreements with the municipalities. Why? Because we wanted to make sure that the money would end up in the right place: in kind, for children. And then I see Friday night an alderman in Barendrecht who actually says rather smugly "poverty doesn't exist here." That is not true; unfortunately Barendrecht has just food banks. And who then says "I'm not gonna do anything with it" What are administrative agreements with the municipalities worth? Is the Secretary of State prepared to call this alderman immediately and tell him: we made arrangements with you, with the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	As far as I am concerned, we are entering into a wide-ranging discussion at the time we agreed to do so, and that is at the time of that evaluation. Then we will certainly also bring some signals, like that from Nieuwsuur. By the way, we are doing this in a broad sense, because I also note that there are aldermen who say: we are doing it in a different way here. I'm curious about that too, because as far as I'm concerned, the main message comes first. And that's that we're fighting child poverty. That's the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	In addition, of course, I also made a call. I didn't hit any alderman who said "there's no poverty here" or "I'm not doing anything about this." I have spoken to aldermen who say, "You have to look, to prevent me from spending money on nonsense: I just can't find any more poor children at the moment than I would have statistically seen. My big problem is that I can't find them and if I can't find them, I can figure out something to distribute the money at random, but that's where my biggest problem lies." How does the Secretary of State see that? Is there anything you can do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	What I see and what I know from experience is that a lot of municipalities work together, anyway, with a lot of organisations of volunteers within their own municipal boundaries that look in different ways. I think that's important. We can also help people who otherwise fall just outside of all existing jars. Because I think that is a very important point when you talk about poverty policy: how do we ensure that people who are taking advantage of these funds, but doing their very best to keep their heads above water, keep their sense of justice? As far as I am concerned, the search for and finding people who are dealing with poverty is an important task that communities now have, together with the Empire. This is certainly also a subject that we will discuss in that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Combating child poverty is incredibly important. That is why it is shocking to see that the reportage of Nieuwsuur shows that the distribution of the Klijnsmaalden in all ways is not going well. I therefore welcome an evaluation. However, I would still like to ask whether this evaluation could make a little more visible the effects of spending these funds in kind as well. This, for example, compared with some of the funds paid by national foundations, in other ways, for example through the Sports Fund. Can that comparison be made? I think that is a very important consideration when assessing whether this is being carried out properly or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Since the evaluation is already under way, I do not know if I can adjust it in the meantime. What I can promise anyway is that this issue will be involved in the discussion we will have following the evaluation. I also promised to inform the Chamber of the results of that evaluation. That's what I'm gonna get into this conversation. Well, at least it's a topic of conversation here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	Just two months ago, the Chamber spoke to the former Secretary of State about poverty policy, and this was a pressing point because we were concerned about whether the money was in the right place. It is now clear that to a large extent this is not the case. At that time we were also assured by the same Secretary of State that otherwise the money would come back. My question is therefore: if municipalities don't spend it on what it's meant for, why isn't it just returned or claimed back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Whether it doesn't end up in the place where it's supposed to be, I daren't say that. We have seen a broadcast of Nieuwsuur in which a number of municipalities have spoken, but certainly not with the majority of municipalities. That's why I want to stick to the evaluation we're doing. That'll give us a better picture. I also want to continue the agreements made by my predecessor and to use the appropriate moments to adjust them, such as that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	Second supplementary question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	So reward those who do not do well, because they can throw it at the pot and do not seem to have to spend it. I think that is a really bad signal from this government. I'd like you to reflect on that, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	We now have this arrangement for a year and we are already going to evaluate it at the beginning of next year. It seems to me that if we have to adjust in the meantime because it turns out that it is being used completely in the wrong way, we are really on top of that. Indeed, I would not allow that image to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	For D66 too, this issue, the fight against child poverty, is very important. I am also pleased that so many spokesmen are asking questions about this. I would like to build on what Mr Peters of the CDA has said. He said some municipalities say they don't actually need that money. Now, in the coalition agreement, we have allocated an additional 80 million for the next three years in addition to that 100 million. I am therefore very curious to see whether an inventory can be made of the municipalities in advance, in which the government asks the municipalities if they need extra money over the next three years on top of that 100 million. If there are municipalities themselves saying that they do not need it, we can spend that money in those places where it is really necessary. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	A valid point, as well as referring to the coalition agreement. I talk to congregations all the time. I also have an administrative consultation this week in which I will give them what we have discussed here in the Chamber today. This is a relevant issue and I will at least include it in the conversation I have with municipalities following the first evaluation at the beginning of the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	No, sir. You can't scream from the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
