ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mr Van Dam's question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for Justice and Security about the report "Report cracks ICT police." I call Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, a welcome to the new Minister for Justice and Security. We're going from the strawberry to the I.T.P.D. through the fall ticket. Once again, we are shocked by ICT problems in the police. In 2011, ICT was an important driver for the formation of a national police force. Six years later, it turns out that the job is still not in order. Although much has been improved, the policeman on the street, the detective, in particular, is still underwhelmed. He has to overtype data from one system to another. He can't get a moving image at his workplace. We still hear stories from policemen who have to buy ICT equipment to do their job. Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, I read in the newspaper that a report on this subject was prepared on behalf of the Central Works Council. By the way, I should like to pay tribute to that Central Works Council. It has done less work in the past, so to speak. But why do I have to read in the newspaper as an MP that there is such a report? I looked it up myself on the police website. Why didn't the Minister send that report to the Chamber? It concerns such a sensitive subject, which has been discussed so many times in the Chamber. And, of course, more importantly, how does the Minister appreciate this report? How does he see the state of play when it comes to ICT with the police? Does he share the conclusion of this report? And does he also share the view that the policeman on the street is currently seriously lacking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin by saying that I have also taken note of the report of the Gartner Office's Boedel-making Attack Program. That is indeed a report written on behalf of the Central Works Council. As I understand it, it's a confidential report. I don't think it's up to me to send that to you then. But I can tell you that, since it is now known, I have no objection to sending that report to the Chamber. It generally gives a positive picture. Those who read the report see that the conclusions indicate that much progress has been made. You asked me how I look at the report. Well, I've talked to the Chief Constable about this. He will include the findings in a final police report on the Police Intelligence Attack Program. That will be completed by the end of this year. It was started in 2011 to solve these very serious ICT problems. I will be informed about this in the coming period, including by the review board set by my predecessor. I'll talk to the chairman of that review board tomorrow for the first time. I'll also ask him if he knows that report. If not, I'll share it with him. Then next month I will come up with an overall picture of progress, including a policy response to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm glad to hear the Minister wants to send the report to the Chamber. It is almost no longer necessary, because I have downloaded it myself. I'm especially curious if the Minister is also willing to send an accompanying report from the review board to the Chamber, because I'm especially curious what that review board thinks of this Gartner report. I would ask the Minister to do so as soon as possible. I am aware that the attack programme is due to end at the end of this year. But does it have to be? Should this attack programme end if it is now concluded that a large part of the planned work has not yet been done for the policeman on the street? And does that review board have to stop? We all know the police organization. Every day, he can choose from hundreds of things that need to be done. If there is no separate attack program, if that is part of the ordinary work, then I know what choices are sometimes going to be made. Does the Minister not agree with me that both a separate programme and external monitoring in the form of a review board offers the best guarantee to complete the work? Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	Let me begin by saying that I will inform the Chamber at a progress letter in December. First of all, I would like to wait for the report of the Chicken Committee and also the report of the review board. I think it makes more sense to address the question of internal and external supervision, and how it should take shape. In relation to both the review board and the Chicken Committee, and as a result the police themselves would not find it prudent to take an advance on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	I take the Minister's remark in such a way that at the end there will still be room to opt for a separate programme. Otherwise we will not have to talk about it in the long term. I would like the Minister to confirm my interpretation of his comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	That would be an advance on that letter to the Chamber. I really think it should be the case that, having received and read those reports and having drawn conclusions from them, I simply spoke to the Chamber as a whole about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dam. Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	Six years ago, I was one of those MPs who pulled the plug from the ICT project with the police because it was a mess and 500 million euros had been thrown away. Now, six years later, we see exactly the same problems with ICT in the police. Hundreds of millions of euros are being thrown away again. I ask the Minister how it is possible that the Ministry of Justice never learns anything and always makes the same mistakes. Is this perhaps also due to the fact that every time the same expensive consultants are hired for such projects, which only send expensive bills but have never been able to successfully complete an ICT project?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	The question of how it is possible that the Ministry of Justice and Security never learns anything from mistakes is, frankly, a far too general question, which I certainly do not recognise in the report commissioned by the Central Works Council. I repeat: that report also gives a generally positive picture. Much progress has been made, so I do not endorse your remark that exactly the same problems are involved in ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	Many of the solutions related to the ICT issue would be sought by my group in money. I am glad that I have already heard the Minister announce a number of steps. I also heard him say that he wants to send the report, which we have already read, as Mr Van Dam said, together with a policy response to the Chamber next month. The only thing is that we want the budget to be dealt with by the end of this month. So would the Minister like to speed things up, so that we could have the policy response on this matter in the last week of November?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	As much as I might like to, I cannot make a commitment about that now. In addition, as I told you, I depend, among other things, on the Chicken Commission. I want to deal with that report very closely with you. Perhaps that would not be possible if we were to move in a hurry. One other thing I would like to say to you is that I will at least explain my own intentions and credentials in terms of money to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Özütok's question on behalf of GroenLinks, also to the Minister for Justice and Security, on the message 'Plofmunition is a source of police concern'. Those are the headlines.
