ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. "The pgb drama" was on the front page of the NRC last Saturday. Inside we could read about the ten misses of this Secretary of State. A subject that has caused incredibly much misery to tens of thousands of people. June 2015 the CDA, together with the SP and GroenLinks, tabled a motion of censure. So, what's next? What's for sure now? The Secretary of State has known, but he has denied, trivialized, mist raised. From systems to people he would go. Finally, the conclusion is: first the Ministry and the Secretary of State, then the people. In the end, the Secretary of State did apologize. I'm sorry about the way it happened. While he should have apologized for what he did. Therefore the following questions; it could have been dozens, but I must confine myself. When the Secretary of State wrote at the end of 2014 that "all information to pay care claims is available at the SVB," did he deliberately put the Chamber on the wrong foot because he knew, given the consultation on 27 November, that it was different? When he wrote to the Chamber in February 2015 that payments "must be legitimate, of course," did he throw the Chamber on the wrong foot because he had ordered to pay anyway? When he buried the Chamber under a pile of paper I've been asking for for months on 28 April 2015, did he then know that he was sending a different continuity plan than what was now on the NRC site, which said that a scenario should be developed in which budget holders could continue to pay themselves? Isn't it time for this secretary of state to apologize for what he's done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have talked very often and for a very long time about the way in which the pgbs have been introduced. That didn't go well. We've talked about that on a regular basis. I have said in many debates in the Chamber that the risks were greater than they were estimated in spring 2015 and that it had not gone well in the implementation either. I have tried to keep the Chamber informed of the solutions chosen. The Court indicated that it should not only be given information about the solution chosen, but that I could have said more about the risks. You have a point. But your questions go in the direction of: was it so that I knew it all and that I didn't tell? Of course it's not like that. We have tried to assess all the risks that were there as best we could. Not only us, but also external experts and all kinds of other parties. We have taken action on this and every time we have looked at how these measures have worked out. Not for the Ministry, but precisely to ensure that people could get their money for the pgbs as best they could. Therefore, when we wrote at the end of 2014 that all the information was available at SVB, it indicated that the SVB had the files transferred from the healthcare offices and could proceed to the automatic allocation on that basis. Payments must, of course, be lawful. That is why we have chosen to make the best possible advances in this situation and to calculate them later. At the time, the Chamber also insisted on "paying in doubt." The pile of paper was no other continuity plan. The Continuity Plan outlined scenarios that still had to be worked out if they were to be applied. In the consideration to determine which scenario was best, we concluded that we would continue on this path with a number of adjustments: scaling up the capacity of the SVB, ensuring that automatic awards were made, ensuring that controls were temporarily deported and taking measures aimed at making the best possible payment to budget holders. This has nothing to do with the Ministry or with this State Secretary: all parties, including the Ministry and the Social Insurance Bank, have been working during that period only to ensure that people could be paid as well as possible. That was the purpose of all the measures taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	I told you, the Secretary of State has denied, downplayed and raised fog, and he is doing so again today. He says again that it didn't go well, while the NRC's investigation and all the underlying documents show that he didn't do well. He says that there has been an assessment and that this has been wrong in retrospect. If you read the piece of the NRC, it appears that it has been constantly advised not to do it this way because it would not succeed. The Secretary of State is now even indicating that the ex-officio grant has already been dealt with by the end of 2014, but that is not the case. The Secretary of State kept throwing the Chamber on the wrong track. Would he say once again that the quote is incorrect, which means that all the information for the payment of health claims to the SVB is available, so that he put the Chamber on the wrong track with it? Can he apologize again for what he did?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	I don't make a distinction between how it happened and how it was done. If I am responsible for introducing the drawing rights pgb, I am responsible for that. That's what I told the Chamber. That is why I apologized to the budget holders and I said that if the Chamber felt that it should have been more informed about the risks and not just about the solutions... That's what I reported. However, we must continue to make a distinction in the sense that all the measures we have taken have been directed towards payment to budget holders. We looked, among other things, at the possibility of this automatic allocation and we had to deal with the situation that there was already a great deal of information about those budget holders with regard to the data from the health care offices that were transferred to the Sociale Verzekeringsbank (Social Insurance Bank). So you could also pay if there was an automatic grant. That automatic allocation replaced the comment of the municipality which meant "go ahead and pay." And in many cases the Social Insurance Bank could say the same, because that information was therefore available in the data transferred from the health offices. So if you wanted to, you could. That is the message that was delivered at the time. Mrs Keijzer wants to hear from me that it didn't go well. I've said that before. We've talked about that 12 times. If Mrs Keijzer wants to hear from me whether you should have assessed and described the risks in retrospect, I say that I have already said that and that we have already talked about this. I can imagine that questions will arise again from Members of Parliament on the basis of the articles. In that case, I am very willing to answer it at all times, but it is not that we knew something we did not tell and that we were doing something other than ensuring that budget holders can be properly paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	So if the Secretary of State writes that the care must of course be lawful in the case of payments, does this mean that you transfer money to Romanian and Bulgarian account numbers without having any idea what's behind it? Does the Secretary of State confirm what is stated in the NRC study, namely that there was a remarkable conclusion on the emergency scenarios: will it not work in the event of an emergency? These are just two examples of incredibly many times when the Secretary of State writes and says that he thinks it is important that budget holders get security and that caregivers get their money in good time, while the facts show that he has made big mistakes and that people have gotten into trouble as a result of his actions. If the Secretary of State doesn't admit this today, haven't it been crocodile tears? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State, and I want him to apologize for what he's done. And I don't mean to misjudge risks. I am referring to the fact that, contrary to all the advice, a plan that was ultimately one of the biggest failures in this cabinet period, resulting in incredibly much misery for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'm trying to figure out what Mrs Keijzer is looking for. I don't distinguish between gone and done. I've already indicated that if anyone's responsible, that's me. When I apologize, I don't apologize for how it happened, I apologize for how it happened. That's not for nothing. Where it is suggested that we have not made every effort to ensure that budget holders were paid in time, I would like to point out the following. All the measures, including the emergency measures that have been taken, were primarily designed to scale up the capacity of the Social Insurance Bank, secondly, the possibility of automatic granting and, thirdly, the temporary reduction in the number of checks carried out had only one objective: to pay budget holders as well as possible. It didn't go well, it didn't go well, and mistakes were made. That is all true, but all efforts have been made to achieve exactly that. There was no other purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	Last Friday, EenVandaag wrote on his website on the basis of the NRC documents: "The Ministry of Health (VWS) deliberately had care money transferred to a fraudster. A caretaker could continue to declare money for a patient who had already died. Money also went to accounts in Bulgaria or Romania, while the people for whom the money was declared were unknown." Is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	There are two cases. One concerned a caretaker: Mrs Beelen. It's been in publicity, so I can mention her name. Some members of the Chamber have called for this problem to be resolved. That was resolved by a settlement for the trial. We have said: we are going to distribute the advance, so instead of paying on an advance basis on a declaration basis, so that we can be settled later. Later, the account showed that this also had to be settled, because the advances were higher than the declarations that came in. That's out of the question. I've just been looking into the extent to which foreign payments were found. The Social Insurance Bank has informed me that 28 payments have been made on a foreign number of €22,000, one of which is €656 on a Bulgarian number. By the way, it has not been established that it is wrong. You asked me how many offshore accounts have been paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	I clearly hear a "yes" here. The Secretary of State confirms that money has gone to fraudsters, to deceased persons and to accounts in Romania and Bulgaria for unknown persons. My question to the Secretary of State is: what is he still doing in his post?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	Ensure that payments continue to run smoothly. Fortunately, we can now see that all the measures taken with all the problems that this entails have already been discussed on several occasions, and that we can talk about how to make it more user-friendly and allow all payments to be made through the system so that there is prior control. There has been less control for a while, by the way, in very close consultation with the Chamber. Then we re-enabled the controls. That's the situation we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	This Secretary of State has been warned that things would go wrong. He didn't intervene and didn't inform the Chamber. He deceived the Chamber. If the Chamber points him to that, she gets a you-bowl and there's still no solution. The image of this Secretary of State has been more important than that solution all along. It is now 2017 and the solution is farther away than ever. Is the Secretary of State the right man for the solution? We won't know, because he won't be returning to this post in another cabinet. I do have one question for the Secretary of State: can he make sure that the retarded magic stops blackmailing documents that are being requested to find out the truth? Apparently, the Chamber won't get the truth if she asks. She gets fog, a lot of information, disinformation. But when journalists ask for documents, they get documents with black-painted pieces, which really doesn't make any sense. Do one thing. You have deceived the Chamber. You'll give the room a you-bowl if she points that out to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Secretary of State hasn't solved the problem. Then do one thing right in this case, I ask him: make sure that all those documents come out, so that there can be a fair reconstruction and we can learn from this gigantic mistake that this Secretary of State will be responsible for for forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	You have almost more speaking time than the questioner, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, Mr. Chairman, this is kind of about something. Now I want an answer from the Secretary of State: is he going to make everything public or is he going to keep blackmailing everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, that counts as a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs Keijzer has a number of judgments which I leave on Mrs Keijzer's behalf. I can only say what I... I am sorry, Mrs Keijzer, but perhaps that is also your judgment; I am not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u18	So you mean Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yes, Mrs. Leijten. I can only say that for my part, when there were problems and there were warnings in the sense of "are you okay?', have taken everything out of the closet to take measures to ensure that the budget holder can pay as well as possible. This does not mean that everything has gone well, but all efforts have been made to achieve this: on the one hand, to ensure that payments are stable and, on the other hand, to work towards a solution. I assume you mean by "the solution" how it will be with a user-friendly portal. We agreed earlier that I will inform the Chamber about this shortly. Those appointments are in place and the Chamber will be hearing this from me. As far as the Public Administration Act is concerned, as the Chamber knows, that law explicitly states that we must decide what becomes public or not; that is Article 11 (1). That article says literally: "The protection of personal policy concepts is the protection of the free expression of opinion, the importance of being able to 'brainstorm' in a confidential atmosphere without fear of loss of face and to ensure that, in the primary design of the policy, those concerned can express their thoughts and views freely." That's standard case law, including the Council of State. If a journalist disagrees with the fact that he receives painted documents, he can make use of the possibility of objection and appeal created by law. There is even a right to justice, so that the judge can assess whether this has been done correctly. Mrs Leijten cannot fail to point out to me that I am trying to apply the law as effectively as possible. I can imagine that Mrs Leijten finds it annoying when pages are completely painted; I sometimes have that uncomfortable feeling and I also find this annoying, as she has read in the press. However, the Secretary of State may also be expected to apply the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u20	I am getting a second supplementary question from Mrs Leijten, because she was just at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u21	I will request a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u22	Does the Secretary of State really mean that the black paint of a decision note is covered by the article on personal policy ideas? The Secretary of State can't be serious about that, can he? On the site of the NRC you can see what has been painted away. That has nothing to do with being able to spar freely about all kinds of options that are put on the table. Actual information must simply be made public. Then you can say that you can always go to court, but then of course you are a long time away. That's actually abuse of the WOB. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to state in a minute on the basis of which arguments this would belong to personal policy considerations, for example in the decision-making note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u23	I have seen that too, but if there are exchanges of documents serving internal reflection in order to arrive at decisions, they are covered by Article 11 (1). If that's what you need, it's gonna be a judge testable, too. It is settled case law to do so in this way. I have also looked at whether I am the only one who feels that this is the case with other people. This is the case law on this point. Partly because of the efforts of the Chamber, I know that there is a discussion about whether we should do this, whether there should be another law on public access or whether you should think differently about this. We await that discussion with each other, but what has been done so far, including by the people of my department, is in line with the established case law: see what the scope of Article 11 (1) is. In the case of documents for internal reflection, you must ensure that there is free expression of opinion before the administrative decisions are taken. This is covered by Article 11 (1). If someone doubts that and wonders whether this is true, the judge can judge whether this has happened correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u24	You'll be a while. It may also be that the Secretary of State's bitch might be less important by then. This is about how you apply those criteria. If you are covering up a whole decision-making note, you do not tell me that these are all personal policy ideas. The Secretary of State can't be serious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u25	It is not about our understanding of "personal policy concepts" in the sense that a person has a policy conception. As pointed out by the Council of State, "personal policy concepts" mean views, proposals, recommendations or conclusions of one or more persons on an administrative matter, with the arguments put forward by them. That does not have to be traceable to a person; it can also be an organisation. I am fine with discussing with each other whether this should be changed or whether the law should be changed. I know that Mrs Voortman is trying to do that, but until then I am really committed to applying the law, subject to judicial review if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u26	The Secretary of State quotes so nicely here, yet he felt wet. He felt to such a degree of wetness that he had to ask permission from the cabinet to paint things away. I agree with him that you should be careful with your employees, but we have in this country a number of officials specifically set up to protect us from wasting billions of ICT. They have been appointed specifically for this purpose, to keep us all sharp here. These people are called CIOs, in beautiful Dutch. And they concluded on 26 March 2014: it is unlikely that the ICT solution will be realised by all parties before 1 January 2015. To this day, this Secretary of State has refused to send this report, which, as far as I am concerned, is of a different order, especially in view of the decision of the Cabinet to send it to the Chamber. Be a guy and don't ask permission of the Cabinet to keep this away. Just tell everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u27	I believe that, in another connection with one of my colleagues, there has also been a debate on the disclosure of the CDI's opinions. It was then decided that they fall within the scope of Article 11 (1). So that has been changed in the Chamber before. Mrs Keijzer spoke of the uncomfortable feeling. Yeah, I do. When I see a page painted completely black, I find it annoying. Then I ask you again: boys, have we done this well and are we generous enough? 'Cause I want to be generous in it. So the weighting is that it falls within the scope of Article 11 (1). Then I'll apply the law. Then I'll check again if it's really done well and if it can't be looked at with any kind of generosity. Well, that's a testable decision, then. The Chamber can really ask me to just try to apply the law properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u28	Of course, I also read the reconstruction in the NRC. When you read it all in a row, you get a repeat of the ten debates, namely that it has been a very nasty dossier for a lot of people. I did, of course, see if there was anything in it that we didn't know as a room. There is one important issue on which I have a question. I have many more questions, but they will come to the settlement later. On Christmas Eve 2014, according to the NRC, the Secretary of State was informed that 20,000 people were not yet in the picture and that they were at risk of not getting their care. Did the Secretary of State know about this? Is it true? And wasn't it a reason for him to turn all the signals on red? That's an important question I still have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u29	If there are fewer budget holders than estimated, you have to ask yourself why. There may be several reasons for this. Later we talked about this in the Chamber: how can you find out? Partly concerned people who were going to convert their care into kind, partly concerned people who were reluctant to apply for a pgb and partly concerned people who were still applying for a pgb. In itself, that was not a signal to conclude that it went wrong. Most of it was in the system and we had also taken measures to pay for it. We have taken additional actions, together with the SVB and the municipalities, to track these people down properly. We asked municipalities to check if they had anyone in sight, to make sure that anyone who wanted to apply for a pgb did. And when people cut it off, we wanted to know why. We have asked the municipalities to check with their budget holders. However, the signal as such was not a signal in the sense of: payments go wrong. It was a good reason for us to check whether we had the number of budget holders well in the bun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u30	The reconstruction in the NRC indeed makes painfully clear how many people, i.e. budget holders and caregivers, have been affected by this. We've had a lot of debates about that. Looking back, I get the feeling that risk management was anything but fine. Much has already been exchanged on whether the Secretary of State should have been more transparent in this matter to the Chamber, again during this Question Time. Now I want to look to the future. We're building a new budget holder portal. Please don't let us get into the same trap again. Let us make sensible decisions at the right time and not at all costs go too fast throughout the process. What has the Secretary of State learned in the last two years? What have been the elements for him that we really need to incorporate into risk management so that we don't make the same mistake again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u31	One. Try to start as early as possible. When you picture all the risks that come in the picture at a time when you still have a very difficult time with them, you almost automatically get emergency measures, which are necessary in themselves but which can also raise questions. So that's a point: start early. That is one of the reasons why we already say that if we want a portal, we can already build a prototype to see what that portal means. Then all other parties, the Social Insurance Bank, the municipalities and the budget holders, can check whether the portal meets the requirements. Let's get execution tests for that and let's make sure the BIT looks at it. Of course, we want to do so at a speed. But I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that care is above speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-21-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you.
