ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Foreign Minister and members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Foreign Minister for being here, but the questions we asked the Prime Minister. I find it exemplary that he chooses not to be here today. The Chamber would like to talk to him about this and he's acting like his nose is bleeding. It is exemplary for the way in which the Prime Minister deals with this issue. It took him a day and a half before he finally came up with a reaction. I get the strong impression that it is not entirely appropriate in the election campaign of the list leader Rutte. This is not the leadership we can expect from a prime minister. On 16 November, Mr Pechtold asked excellent oral questions. He was concerned about the situation in the United States. Donald Trump was elected, and he wondered: what does that mean for the Netherlands? We got a sweep out of the pan, both Mr Pechtold and myself. It is a democratically elected president of a Western country, a friendly country. Give him a chance. I would like to say: well, Prime Minister Rutte, he's had the chance. He's in office for two weeks now. He's going to build oil pipelines that undermine the rights of Native Americans. He's about to build his wall on the border with Mexico. He tries to strengthen the warm ties with Russia. Israel is free to build settlements as far as he is concerned. This is only two weeks' work. The low point was, of course, the Muslim Ban. Terribly discriminatory and contrary to everything our countries stand for. I have the following question to the Foreign Minister. Why did it take so long to get a reaction? Saturday the cabinet was worried, Sunday morning there was no comment, that afternoon we regretted it and went to reject it, and in the evening there had to be clarification. I would like to hear a clarification on this point. The Netherlands is currently negotiating the pre-clearance at Schiphol. I want to know from the cabinet if it's going to reconsider those negotiations. I want the Foreign Minister's guarantee that there will be no discrimination on Dutch territory and that we will never have to cooperate on Dutch territory in carrying out the decree issued by Donald Trump.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'm speaking on behalf of the cabinet. Let me begin by saying that 'divide and rule' and discrimination are not ways of combating terrorism, let alone pursuing foreign policy. President Trump's executive order goes directly against our understanding of standards and values and an effective refugee policy, let alone an effective terrorism policy. As I said before, along with my German colleague, it must never be a policy to stigmatize people because of their origin or religion. Moreover, the protection of refugees is enshrined in the Convention on Refugees. That is the position of the Dutch Government. I would point out that this is a very serious problem for people, in air traffic and in international traffic, day in and day out. Let me give you an example. After President Trump issued his decree, a 5-year-old boy spent Saturday hours alone at Washington Dulles Airport. The White House said in response to this incredible event that it would be wrong to think based on age or gender that someone is not a threat. A 5-year-old boy... We are therefore very much aloof from this decision. Let me tell you something about this weekend's decision-making. Much has been said about this, but let me tell you from my position that we have, of course, reacted immediately. The same Saturday afternoon when this happened, we had international contacts. At that time I responded exactly like my French and German colleagues. I said that we were very concerned and wanted to know exactly what was going on. We did that the same day. We have, of course, contacted the temporary agent here. We also did so through our ambassador there. I will look into a number of other activities in a moment. It was quite clear to us that this had to be severely condemned. So there has been no thought in any way, either by me or by the Prime Minister or by anyone else: we are waiting. You know how Twitter diplomacy is: President Trump does that sometimes. We are trying to find out as soon as possible exactly what is going on, including for the people who are involved, namely the people of dual nationality. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Dutch Government rejects this decision. We should protect our people, especially those of dual nationality. I have developed a number of activities for this purpose. The Netherlands has now taken the initiative of bringing all the ambassadors of the European Union together in Washington. We're preparing a demarche. That even started on that Sunday morning during my talks with Secretary of State Gabriel. This means that we must operate together as much as possible. That will be the commitment of the cabinet, including at the European Council at the end of this week. We consider it essential to know what this element, namely what is going on with President Trump's decisions, means for Europe. What does this mean for cooperation in Europe? What does that mean for our standards and values? With regard to the so-called pre-clearance, you said that last year, at a technical and administrative level, a number of negotiations were launched to enable this to be done at Schiphol Airport, so that those long queues in the United States will not be there in the near future. It goes without saying that the Dutch Government has suspended these negotiations in the light of the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u4	To begin with, I say this is good news. I think it is important for the cabinet to take a position on this. However, I would also like to hear the clear statements made by the Foreign Minister from the Prime Minister. I find it too easy to say that diplomatic contacts have been there since the first minute. Yeah, I hope so. I hope the cabinet is just doing its job. But the Foreign Minister rightly mentioned all those people of dual nationality, all those people who are worried about what this means for their lives. That is why a quick response from the cabinet is required. I see how people react and how messy things are, that no response is given on Sundays and that the type of reaction is different. This varies from "we're a little worried" to "we're eventually rejecting this." Forgive me, but I can't escape the impression that the cabinet is not united about the way in which it reacts to America, Donald Trump. This concerns me, because it is of the utmost importance that we distance ourselves immediately as soon as fundamental human rights are violated: we see people being judged on their faith and origin. That must never happen. I would like to ask about the European Union. I have also noticed that it has remained very quiet from within the European Union. I expect her to condemn what is happening in the United States. Perhaps the Minister of Foreign Affairs could comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u5	The position we hold is the position of the entire cabinet. There was no difference of opinion from the first afternoon. I insist that the Dutch Government also wanted to react quickly because of the situation on the ground. The French-German declaration contained roughly the same words I used myself. Let there be no misunderstanding that I have consulted with the Germans and that we have gone a few steps further to make it clear that this cannot be done and we also believe that this should be discussed at European level. That's why I contacted the biggest partner directly last weekend. You were able to read that statement. We also raised this issue in the European Union, because I actually had a bit of the same thing as you: I also thought it was too quiet there. We have therefore convened the Political and Security Committee on the Dutch initiative, which has indeed called for action by the joint Member States. It is therefore the question of people of dual nationality, because we should also be protecting them. As I said, in Washington, we are not just talking about Europe, but we are certainly also talking about Washington and the same thing. Because I want that clarity. I spoke with the temporary agent in the Netherlands last night. What really stands out, and that is part of the problem of the reaction, is that it is quite chaotic there. There's been an executive order, but for a lot of people who have to do the job, it's unclear what this means exactly. This leads to great uncertainty for families, students and people who have a business. That is why we have taken the initiative to act as soon as possible, including with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u6	Finalizing, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u7	I believe that the Foreign Minister has given firm answers here, exactly as it should be. As soon as human rights are violated, I expect this cabinet to act firmly. That is what I expect when a country violates human rights which we regard as an ally and friend. I repeat that the Chamber asked questions to the Prime Minister and refused to come to the Chamber to answer them. That is indeed relevant. As I said, Mr Pechtold asked questions on 16 November and the Prime Minister put us away with the remark: don't worry so much, give Donald Trump some space. Then we'll see what he does. Trump's been at it for two weeks now, and we can see the result. We see how he tramples on the fundamental values that have been linking countries for years. I would therefore like to hear from the cabinet once again that it will continue to fight this, because I am afraid that this will not be the last time we talk about this. I'm afraid this is the tip of the iceberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u8	A very sharp statement by the Prime Minister and myself was made last Sunday. We haven't been idle since Saturday. I believe that the Netherlands is at the forefront of the European Union as regards bilateral contacts, the organisation of its interests and the protection of its citizens. Not only will the Prime Minister raise this issue, it will also be part of the European summit held in Malta at the end of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr Klaver. Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u10	I would have loved to be here with the Prime Minister! Why did he not seize the opportunity to convey here the Dutch values, the European values, but also the values on which American society is based, and to indicate clearly where the limits lie when it comes to discrimination? I am glad that the Minister is standing here, but it was also this minister who said when Trump was elected: we heard campaign rhetoric. Well, this is far from rhetorical. It was also this minister who said on Saturday: we need to see if it does not discriminate. Well, no question about that: this is pure discrimination. My question to the cabinet is: how is the Netherlands going to prevent one Dutchman with a double passport from becoming the victim of this discriminatory idiotry?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u11	I may first correct what Mr Pechtold said. Firstly, this Minister has said that he will judge Mr Trump on his actions, and that is what we are doing significantly at the time of action. I have done so, and so will the Dutch Government in any decision that is not in line with our standards or values or interests. I do not think that we need to fight a moral battle on this issue. I think that, as a Dutch society, we are largely in agreement on this. The same goes for the Prime Minister in last Sunday's statement. It is important to highlight this here, because we should act together as much as possible with our partners in Europe and in the United States. Then there is the other point mentioned by Mr Pechtold, and rightly so. We have concerns about a large number of those executive orders. I have said this before in the field of waterboarding. As far as the protection of bipatrids is concerned, I am doing everything under my authority and the authority of the cabinet to ensure that this is prevented through Europe and in the United States. We're supposed to protect these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u12	Second supplementary question, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u13	That is fine and I am glad that the Foreign Minister does, but my question is: is it, according to the Cabinet, about our standards, about our values, about our interests, what President Trump is doing right now? And what is the Dutch Government going to do to prevent panic about such a measure? There are six people, Iranians, students and grandparents on a family visit in America because of their landing at Schiphol Airport stuck in a lobby. These are degrading circumstances that we are forced to become part of. So my question is: is this according to the cabinet across the border of our standards, values and interests? And what will the Netherlands do to support organisations such as Schiphol, KLM and others involved, so that they do not become co-executors of this kind of discriminatory measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u14	The first point, but I repeat: it is across the border. I said that very clearly last weekend and do so every day. Terrorism policy is very important, let there be no misunderstanding about it, but you cannot and cannot pursue terrorism policy on the basis of categorization, faith or nation. I will tell you that, apart from morality, it is also ineffective. Let there be no misunderstanding about that: this touches on what we are supposed to defend in the depths of our being. On that other point: of course we are in conversation with the KLM and with Schiphol. Secretary of State Dijksma had contact with the CEO of KLM on Sunday. He too is in a very difficult situation, because what are you supposed to do? You have certain obligations, for example in the framework of ICAO. Nor do we want a boy like that to be alone in Newark or another airport, for example in detention. We are talking to both Schiphol and the KLM to ensure that human suffering is as small as possible. That's our mission, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u15	I am also pleased with the firm words used by the Minister here, but I think everyone feels that my fellow Members are also doing so when, following such decisions, you want to see political and moral leadership from whoever is the Prime Minister of your country at that time and whatever party that Prime Minister is. I missed that, too. My group has missed that. We have seen that the statement made by this Minister together with the Prime Minister is shorter than that made by the Minister together with his German colleague. This declaration also lacked certain important elements which are contained in the declaration by Minister Koenders and his German colleague. I'm very sorry about that. I will therefore immediately ask for a debate with the Prime Minister on this matter in the course of the work. Now I have one specific question for this Minister, who is also responsible for people in the Netherlands with a double passport, which has just been discussed. How is it that the United Kingdom has now issued a statement stating that British people with a double passport, with one of the seven countries, will not be affected by this measure and the Netherlands has not yet done so? Where can people who are concerned now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u16	I would like to stress once again that I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet and that last Sunday's statement was also on behalf of the Prime Minister and myself. The declaration that was issued in the afternoon with the German Government continued and gave it more specificity. I think that is also important, because it is precisely the Foreign Ministers who must now move strongly towards Washington and towards their allies in Europe and draw as much a common line as possible. Indeed, we are dealing with very specific points, which have to do with rules, with dual nationalities and with the way in which the chaotic organisation of traffic can now be put right. At the same time, it was a principled moral position, which fortunately is also the subject of discussion in the United States itself. There are also lawsuits and there is a conversation going on and there is a system of checks-and-balances. Of course, I cannot make any decisive statements about this myself. We will have to wait for that process in the United States itself. But at least we continue to take an active stance. I shall then turn to the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. The exception for these countries, and the possible reason for it, is something we need to look into even further, because we have just heard it. Only yesterday I was informed by the US Charger that it would not be the case that an exception is made. Now it turns out that it is. This exception means that bipatrid citizens who are nationals of one of the seven countries can travel to the United States. That is why I think it is important to stand up for our citizens, not so much to get into a distribution and control situation, or in a situation where what is true for one is not true for the other. It is my job to ensure, together with Germany and a number of other allies, that our bipatrid citizens in the European Union are also supported now that they have got into trouble with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u17	Your second supplementary question, Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u18	So I understand now that it is true that British citizens with a dual nationality, i.e. with one of the other seven passports, are exempt but not Dutch and other EU citizens. If we were to fall into Trump's divide-and-rule policy somewhere, it would be here. I would therefore ask the Minister to address this directly at EU level and to ensure that we, as EU countries, in other words with the United Kingdom, are aligned. Is he indeed going to offer Dutch people who are now concerned with these concerns the opportunity to go somewhere? Because I speak to them, I hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u19	Sure. On the first point: according to the information that we have received and which has also emerged in the United Kingdom, that is the case. This is also the subject of discussion in the United Kingdom. For this reason, I have taken the initiative to ensure that we, as Europe, together, at least as jointly as possible, do not necessarily concern everyone, but rather that we should be able to regulate our people who are bipatrid. I believe that we should at least take care of this together with Germany, with France and with other countries. In addition, we will also amend the travel advice. I'll do that this afternoon. I want people to know more precisely what they should actually do. That is not easy, as I say immediately. I can easily give an opinion, but the ambiguity is in the executive order itself. That is why what we are saying to everyone is: pay attention to what the Consulate General and others are now advising. In any case, bipatride Dutch can't just travel to the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u20	It is not normal for the beacon of our Western civilization in the United States to implement such a measure. It is not normal for our Prime Minister not to speak in such terms on this important subject. The Foreign Minister is doing so now, but I still have to see that the Prime Minister does. The Prime Minister did not do this before the elections in the United States and I have not yet seen it. Then my question. I see it's being convicted. I see they're getting away from it. I ask the Foreign Minister whether this is being heard in the United States. Does he think Trump cares about that? I think he too knows that the answer to this question is no. I want to know from this minister what he is actually going to do to make sure that this stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u21	This is a like-dan question. I don't know. I see that the matter itself is very much under discussion in the United States. There are trials. Judges make statements. There are protests. Many countries in the world take positions. We're part of that. The government in the United States has also been democratically elected and that government has taken this decision. In the United States, legal legality will have to be established. This is not a good thing under international law in the field of foreign law and our standards and values. We are committed to this, including for our people. I cannot anticipate this now. We are in the process of further mapping and organising this with a number of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u22	This is the essential point. I would like to know from the Foreign Minister on the basis of which international agreements he can take follow-up measures. Is he willing to do that? In a letter to the Chamber, perhaps in anticipation of the debate which Mr Servaes will be requesting, does he wish to do much more? If we do it this way, we know that a lot of people in the United States have been hurt and that Dutch nationals of dual nationality have been duped. I still have to see the day when people care about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u23	I don't have much to add to what I said. If there is a debate, there can of course be a letter from the government. I have just outlined very clearly the commitment of the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u24	The Foreign Minister's response is adequate. These are things that should not occur in countries in the free West that have high standards and values and defend them. This is without prejudice to the fact that, according to many, this was practice under the previous government, the Obama government, for example in 2012. Another point is that many people who have been or have lived in Israel no longer live in Arab countries. That too is contrary to all the principles we stand for. Can the Minister reflect on both points? To what extent does this deviate from the Obama Government's policy? Does the Minister intend to express his indignation by continuing his contact with the European Union in order to ensure that people coming from Israel have free access to other countries? We are now outraged at the restriction of access to the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u25	When it comes to discrimination, it does not matter which country or who we address. The example you mention has also been repeatedly raised by the Dutch Government in a number of Arab countries. We will continue to do so. It is unacceptable that Israeli citizens cannot normally enter a number of Arab countries. As far as I'm concerned, there's no double standards. There wasn't one before, and there isn't one now. In Fox News and in a number of other broadcasts, I have seen that this is a democratic decision by a new government. It is. I'm a minister from another country. I respect a decision taken, but I would point out that we do not agree with it because it concerns other citizens, and we are at risk, and not just at risk when it comes to the Refugee Convention. During President Obama's administration there were indeed restrictions, but in those cases there was always an individual review. That's exactly the difference. That individual review is gone. So that means you're going to throw countries and groups together. If I have learned one thing in the effective fight against terrorism in recent years, that is precisely the method by which you do not fight terrorism and do not make it safer for your citizens. On the contrary, you are making sure, with division and rule, that the people you need in the fight in terror are no longer allowed to enter the United States of America, the citizens of Iraq, with whom we are fighting against ISIS. Who can claim that it effectively combats terrorism and the killings that are the result of it? There's a key problem there. Let us conduct the fight against terrorism, which we all consider important because of the security of our citizens, in a way that is not only in accordance with international law, but also effective. You must have the greatest possible majority of people with you to fight that battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u26	President Donald Trump, what a relief. What a relief compared to that left-wing dictatorship of scared cowardly lookers that we have in the rest of Europe and also here throughout the Chamber. It's for crying. I tell you, at last America has a president, at last a country in the West has a president, who not only keeps his promises, but also says that the security of its citizens is above all about him. I say to you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, that President Trump has conducted an immigration policy in two weeks that is more effective than that of your entire cabinet as long as it exists. As long as it exists. They got it done. And I'll tell you something else. If we had done in the Netherlands, in Europe, what Mr Trump is doing, that is to close the borders for people from, among other things, Syria, then those people, including terrorists, would not have come our way and then a lot of innocent people, innocent victims of terror in Europe, would have lived today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u27	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u28	So stop your crocodile tears. My question is: learn from Trump and stop looking away cowardly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u29	I would like to say to Mr Wilders that what he advocates is precisely what is not effective in the fight against terrorism, namely the known divide and rule. Make sure that people in your own society no longer have rights. Make sure that when it comes to human rights, you look away. Make sure that the Iraqis with whom our soldiers are currently fighting against ISIS no longer have any rights and that the countries from which terrorists come do not seem to belong on this list. The chaos we are seeing in the international world when it comes to air traffic has nothing to do with increasing the safety of our people. On the contrary, it drives people apart. I will tell you one thing from my experience as Foreign Minister who comes to the Middle East very much: if you want to fight terror, the worst thing you can do is trample human rights, divide and rule politics and so-called screen them on groups, whether they be Christians, Jews or Muslims, and not look at what can really protect us. I would like to address you to that point, because we are at the heart of the Netherlands and the world at the moment. We must fight terror together. If we do not do this together, but with exclusion, I will give you a note that the fight against terrorism will not be effective and that your position is one of insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u30	A lot of words, but no substance at all. What this minister, Mrs Merkel, and Prime Minister Rutte have done is open borders. Come on in, everybody. Come on in. Even if you have a fake passport or no ID, come on in. And we've seen what happens. We have seen that with that asylum influx, the tsunami of asylum seekers who were already disruptive in themselves, terrorists have come from countries like Syria because you did not like it, because you did not want to control them, who have caused innocent people to be murdered all over Europe, from Paris to Berlin. Why don't you stop with your safety? Why don't you stop with your safety? By bringing in the open borders and the people from the Islamic countries, there have been attacks in Europe. Stop lying to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u31	What nonsense, Mr Wilders, what nonsense! Really, how do you get it into your head to sweep it together like the Dutch government is responsible for the terrorist attacks? Firstly, the people responsible for these attacks. Secondly, you know damn well that when it comes to refugee policy and terrorist policy, you are throwing everything together, as if there is no screening, as if the threat of terrorism always comes from the outside, often they are people from their own society, and as if the trample of human rights and large groups of citizens does not lead to what we do not want, namely radicalisation and terror. You have the wrong medicine. It's not gonna work, and it's gonna make the country unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u32	Unfortunately, this is what we see a lot around the world: millions of people who are categorically discriminated against because of the place where their cradle is or because of their faith. The sense of fear in societies nourishes that, but it is completely fed if this is also promoted by government leaders. The big question, of course, is: what are we going to do to remove this discontent, this uncomfortable feeling of discontent, of no security, which means that there is a growing group of people supporting discriminatory measures? In the Netherlands, too, we see a society of people who are being turned against each other, of people who are getting further apart. The policy of recent years has also failed to connect people. So the big question is: how do we jointly oppose this, and I very much agree with the Minister how do we take these people's fears seriously? They see what happens in their streets and in their neighborhood. How do we prevent the group of people behind discriminatory government leaders from growing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr Roemer, I think we are beginning to talk about something beyond the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. This is the campaign for the upcoming elections. That is the struggle of how to deal with international relations, with borders open or close, with real security, with a real fight against terror. That is the battle you must fight and I will fight for my party during the elections. As a member of the government, I am speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet, and I would like to stress once again, I can only say that this has nothing to do with good or bad relations with the United States. I believe in transatlantic relations. You just have to tell friends who stood for those values that something has now been broken and that we need to look together at how we're going to solve it. For the rest, I think it is important that we move forward in this debate with this key question of how to effectively create security in the world and effectively combat terrorism. We have, I have, a clear difference of opinion with Mr Wilders. I have a legitimate view on this. I think it creates insecurity, I think it increases terror, I think fear will increase and chaos will increase. Others will think differently, that is the struggle that I think will have to be fought outside this Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u34	On the contrary. With all due respect to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has said a number of very sensible things here, but if you find that it is not tomorrow but it has been going on for a long time that people feel that there is a great division in society, that there is no more equal opportunity, that people are discriminated against on the basis of where they come from, what they believe and what they are called and that this is happening to the level of the government leader of no matter what one of the most powerful countries in the world, then I expect the Prime Minister of the Netherlands to stand up à la minute and stand up for his entire population in the Netherlands: man or woman, old or young, and so on. He needs to give people a sense of security. What's the Prime Minister doing? He's gonna let this go. Minister Koenders knows all about it, because he is going to talk to Europe. This isn't the look. I do not blame the Foreign Minister for that, because he has good answers. I do blame the Prime Minister, who is not acting now as the guardian of what should be normal in a society without discrimination and racism. But the Prime Minister stays away. I blame him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u35	Again, I stand here on behalf of the entire cabinet, including the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you.
