ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. On Friday Greenpeace published negotiating texts for the so-called JEFTA agreement, the EU-Japan trade agreement. The texts we have been able to read give us every reason to worry, and that is extremely disappointing. Because what is now on the table is yet another classic grey treaty that opts for economic gain at the expense of sustainability, product safety, working conditions and health. The text also reflects the demand for investment protection that allows large multinationals to sue governments outside national law, as in the case of CETA and TTIP. But that's not all. It's supposed to be a living treaty. This means that trade ministers will in future be able to amend the Treaty without any form of democratic control. For information on the negotiations, we have proved to be dependent on leaked documents, because national parliaments are not involved in this treaty in good time and can only say yes or yes to the end result. GroenLinks cannot reconcile the leaked texts with the ambitions expressed earlier by the cabinet to make the negotiation process on trade agreements more transparent. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. How does the government reconcile the ambition for greater transparency with this leaked draft text? Why should the national parliaments only sign at the end of the cross? Has the Dutch Government opposed this? If not, why not? If so, why has this resistance not been successful so far and what is the government going to do to change that? Does the government consider that the leaked treaty text complies with the standards of a modern and transparent treaty, in which issues such as sustainability and working conditions are properly regulated? Does the government share the Green Left Group's view that the sustainability provisions in the agreement are far too non-binding and that this does not correspond to the ambition expressed by Minister Ploumen earlier on? Is the text as it has been leaked acceptable to the government? Can the government explain why an ISDS passage is in the agreement, when even this cabinet of that kind of investment protection has said that it is old-fashioned and dead and buried? Why does the government consider a form of investment protection necessary at all in a treaty between the EU and Japan, two well-functioning democratic constitutional states? GroenLinks is happy to receive answers to these questions and hopes that we will not remain dependent on leaked documents for the follow-up to developments in the JEFTA Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Can I say first of all that these types of treaties are very conducive to employment and to the possibility of maintaining collective provision in countries? If you have this kind of treaties, there'll be more trade. More trade is more work. More work is more income. This means that you also have more money to serve people who depend on collective facilities. So, in principle, the government is in favour of these kind of treaties. The Netherlands in particular benefits from free trade agreements. We are a very open economy. Where America is going in the wrong direction, we are happy to go in the right direction with other countries. I think Mrs Diks is joking when she says that she is dependent on leaked documents for her information. There have been twenty changes between the Chamber and the Cabinet, my colleague Mrs Ploumen, on this subject. Twenty times a debate has taken place or questions have been answered. All documents, all negotiating documents are for inspection by the Chamber. Moreover, they are also on the Internet, on the Council's website. So that information's all there already. The only thing that is not yet public is the negotiating mandate. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, this must also be made public. We're doing the best we can for that. We are talking to other countries about this and we are going to try to get it done as soon as possible. It's not like Mrs. Diks has to sign by the cross. We have tough points. One of these hard points is that we have no desire to go back to the old ISDS when there are disputes between companies and states. We want the new system, the Investment Court System, to be incorporated into the new treaty. My colleague Ploumen has already said that if that is not the case, we cannot accept that treaty. Mrs Diks is right to ask whether you need such a system at all, because Japan and Europe have a good legal system. That is a very fair question. It is also conceivable that there will be nothing in the Treaty about this and we will simply stick to it. Mrs Diks finds the passage on sustainability far too non-binding. We are very excited about that passage. We think there is a very good package, which gives NGOs the opportunity to talk to the Japanese government, for example about tropical rainforests or whaling. It reaffirms the need to comply with international environmental agreements, to engage in dialogue between the parties, Europe and Japan, and also to address violations of international agreements. The Netherlands has decided to talk about whaling. On the contrary, we are very enthusiastic about what has so far come out of sustainability as feasible. I think this is a move in the right direction. More trade is in the Dutch interest. Significant improvements can be made. We have drawn a red line that is clear; we will stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his reply. He started by saying that he was enthusiastic about the treaty, because it at least promotes employment. This may be true of employment here in our region, but GroenLinks stands for jobs that do not harm other places in the world. We know that many trade agreements can also lead to human rights violations, violations of sustainability and so on. This is a very important and important point for us to pay particular attention to. The Convention states that the parties recognise the importance of sustainability, but that technical trade restrictions require parties to review these arguments. I would like to recommend to the Minister that, in the case of sustainability, this obligation should also be met. The Minister states that he does not want ISDS, because he also considers it old-fashioned and dead and buried, as we have already noted. The minister is focusing on the ICS. If that doesn't come in, there won't be a treaty. He says that there should preferably be no mention of such a settlement system in the Treaty at all. That is not really necessary, because there are two well-functioning legal states. Does that mean that if the focus was on ICS, the minister would agree to the treaty anyway? In the opinion of GroenLinks, this too does not provide sufficient legal protection. Finally, I would like to point out that GroenLinks is also in favour of trade agreements, but they must be fair trade agreements which improve the situation for everyone everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	If you conclude trade agreements to make it easier to trade with each other, you always profit from them on balance because there will be more trade and more work, and everything that comes out of them. It is not the case that we want to exclude certain parts of the world from it. The same applies to Japan and other countries. We are trying to conclude as many of these agreements as possible in the world, because free, open trade in the world is ultimately in the interests of everyone, and certainly in the interests of an open economy such as the Netherlands. Mrs Diks said that the provisions contained in it lead to more human rights violations. I think that if you have very good economic relations, if you have a lot of contact with each other and if there are treaties that support that, you are talking to each other, you have mutual interests, you can build things up with each other and you have opportunities to address each other. I think that this kind of treaties actually leads to fewer human rights violations. As far as sustainability is concerned, we have analysed this ourselves, and we believe that what is now capable of sustainability is really a great improvement. We have listened carefully to the critical remarks made by Members of Parliament in all 20 discussions between the Chamber and the Cabinet. We will continue to listen to that very carefully. The same applies to the 21st occasion, in which I took note of Mrs Diks' view. That's about the settlement. It's not like I prefer not to record anything. I prefer to work consistently with ICS, in all these treaties. However, should it eventually become apparent that nothing is being done in this area in this treaty, I do not think it is a problem, because Japan has a good legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	This treaty, which will be concluded with Japan, will lead to legal inequality, to class justice. Because what is the case? Soon companies that want to sue a country will be able to go to courts to be set up specifically for this purpose. That is, of course, contrary to what the cabinet has always said, namely that courts should be accessible to everyone. We've been talking about trade treaties for so long, and the cabinet says time and time again that we need to get rid of the system in which multinationals have more rights and more room to go to court than ordinary, normal people. However, these documents show that we are taking a step back in time. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's possible. Yesterday I experienced this in Luxembourg, where we had 28 European countries together. As the Netherlands you have a view, but there are 27 other countries that happen to have views. Then you try to come to something together in a European context. We are in favour of an Investment Court System, because then you work with permanent judges, an appeal authority can follow, the rulings can become public and there can be a broader right to regulate. That's why we're for an ICS. If there is no ICS, but an ISDS, an Investment-State Dispute Settlement, the treaty is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	The Minister has already said that there is a lot of information available, including via the Internet. Are there any intermediate results, negotiated results, which the Chamber cannot see at the moment, that the Chamber could see if a reading room were to be set up, as was the case with TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	I think there's one of those reading rooms where the Chamber can go to get to know the pieces. The second possibility for the Chamber to know is via the Internet: the portal of the Council of the EU. So I think it's settled. The only piece that I know is not in the Chamber is the negotiating mandate. We're doing the best we can to make that public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	A supplementary question, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	I remember from the time that TTIP was a hot issue, that we received regular messages, such as 'there has been another round of negotiations and there is another new document'. Is it possible to send those signals to the Chamber when it comes to JEFTA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	I think there's such an opportunity for the Chamber. There is a space here where one can learn about the pieces. In response to Mr Bruins' question, I will look into how this works and whether something needs to be done to achieve what we are trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Minister indicated that an agreement with Japan could lead to a lot of additional employment in Europe. I believe that the additional contribution to trade in Europe could even increase to 96 billion. In fact, we should all be very positive about such an agreement here. However, we always hear negative sounds from these kind of chords, even here in the Chamber. There's also a lot of ghost stories. The VVD believes that as much transparency as possible can contribute to the disappearance of these ghost stories. As the Minister said, we want the negotiating mandate to be made public. Can he tell us when that's gonna work? At what time can the Court see anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	I very much agree with Mrs Becker that transparency can only help in such matters, hence the possibilities that already exist. I would like the negotiating mandate to be available to the Chamber. This means that we are working with Luxembourg, Austria, Germany and other countries to bring pressure to bear on the European Commission. I will give the Chamber a copy of a letter which we have sent very recently or which will be sent very soon to the European Commission, and I will also inform it of the reactions to it, so that the Chamber can continue to follow this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister says that an ISDS clause does not provide for this treaty. He's talking about a red line. How is it that this cabinet is always uncomfortablely surprised by the results of negotiations achieved by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u16	We are at the forefront of countries which know very well what is happening in the European Commission, which are actively following all this and which are also influencing it. However, we cannot impose our will on others. We can come up with arguments. We can ensure that we are informed ourselves and that others are informed about what we think is important. We can put forward our arguments. All this happens, but we are talking about 28 countries which all have their own views. The European Commission also has its own views. That is what we are trying to achieve. My experience in Brussels is that, on average, the Netherlands succeeds very well. The same applies to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u17	From the weekend on the radio I heard a discussion about JEFTA and trade agreements. I think the Minister took part in that too. I agree with the Minister that trade agreements can bring countries closer together. In addition to trading, other issues can be raised. What can we expect at the forthcoming G20 on the trade agreement with Japan? Is anything being presented? Is that almost certain? What does the Minister expect there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u18	It could be. Mr Amhaouch is right to say that this meeting will take place shortly. I believe it will be on 6 July, but at least the European Commission is keen to come forward with something at that date. It sees opportunities because on the dairy issue, where there was a major obstacle, a new law has just been passed in Japan, which has led to movement in the Japanese position. The European Commission sees the possibility of reaching a compromise on this point. Suppose that there would also be a decision on dispute settlement to not include a text, but simply to use the legal systems of both countries, between countries in the European Union and Japan, then you have a second point. Assuming that a practical solution can also be chosen in the field of data protection, for example, by giving it the attention it deserves in the course of its further legal work, a kind of general agreement could be reached at best on 6 July. That would be nice, I think, considering what Mrs Becker just said. After all, we have an interest in this kind of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you.
