ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	We'll move on after a minor disturbance. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma for his question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I welcome again. The question is about money for education that is not spent. I call Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you. We now read almost daily that the number of vacancies continues to increase. Of course, that's fantastic news after years of hard work, but we also read that job vacancies go through the roof and that finding suitable people is a big challenge. And all this in a changing labour market, where today's demands, today's qualifications may not be enough for tomorrow's job. So continuing to develop is essential, also continue to develop wider than just in your own sector. But what is our surprise? This Saturday, De Telegraaf copied that education money remains on the shelf. That can't be true, can it? I hope the Minister agrees with us. It also states that the urgency of employers and employees is lacking in this respect. How does the Minister view that? And most importantly, what's he gonna do about it? Only a fraction of what is available for training is currently being spent. How is that possible, I ask the Minister? And is there not enough knowledge of the possibilities? Are there any barriers? And how are we going to ensure that the available resources are used? Finally, Mr President. The Minister has rightly made a point of this in the coalition agreement, but we do not have an overview for us. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister would like to give a good overview of where all the opportunities for training are now available. And how are we going to make sure that we actually use the available resources? 'Cause I think a lot of people like to sit around waiting to get back to a job with a nice education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to Mr Wiersma for this justified question. I think that the subject of education should be given more attention in the coming period, including in this Chamber, because it is indeed an important subject in the light of the changing labour market. There really is a big transition in the labour market. People really need to re-educate, re-educate and keep up with those changes. But it is also, as Mr Wiersma rightly said, because of the tight labour market in some sectors, where retraining can help to fill job vacancies. I agree with Mr Wiersma's question that training money cannot remain on the shelf. Of course, we have also included in the coalition agreement the need for a breakthrough in terms of training in the workplace. The idea is that together with employers and employees, we are going to make a plan to collect government money, R&D funds, training funds in the sectors, but also money from employers and employees in collective agreements in order to achieve a real breakthrough in training in the workplace. Mr Wiersma says that there is no urgency. I don't quite recognize that image. In the discussions I have with the social partners, but also in the spearheads introduced by, for example, the CNV for the collective bargaining season, training is an important priority for the trade unions, in order to invest more in it in the near future, because of the shortage of labour and therefore the urgency. But that more is possible: sure. Mr Wiersma's final question was whether I could make it clear where the money is going for the budget. I'd be happy to say so. I will send a letter next week or the week after that, with an overview of how much money we are spending on training and on which sectors, which R & D funds and what collective agreements we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you for that commitment. Thank you also for prioritising that attention to training is important and should also become more important, and that money cannot be left on the shelf. If there is sufficient urgency, what I hear the Minister say, then I cannot reconcile that with the fact that money remains on the shelf. I therefore assume that the Minister will take action quickly. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps even more worrying is that, if we bet the money, it is not always effective, as De Telegraaf showed. An example from the financial sector: four out of five people in training do so in order to do their own job better, while the UWV indicates that the job opportunities in this sector are dramatic. That means investing in a job that will disappear in the long term. Shame! Does the Minister agree that the current funds focus mainly on their own sector and that this needs to change? Finally. The cabinet has the commitment, as the minister rightly said, to come up with an individual learning account. For the VVD it is important that training money also becomes personal. It is a question of personal development. For we take the money off the shelf when people themselves see the urgency and have the means to spend it, instead of leaving it, as it is now, in a collective pot that nobody knows how to find. That is why we call on the Minister to make haste on this point and to involve explicitly the position of these 130 funds in this matter. I'd love to hear how he's gonna speed this up. Because it can't be that there's money on the shelf, that people need to go to school and they can't find the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	I couldn't agree more. One nuance of the first point, however, is that there really are differences between the development funds. Some development funds and training funds work very well. That's where the money is well used. There, too, there is a great deal of use being made of training, whereas other R&D funds are under-exhausted and indeed money is left. So the image is diffuse. There are really good examples, for example in the engineering sectors, where much use is made of training. So the image isn't the same everywhere, I'm just saying. The second point I very much recognise is that it is not always effective. The article by De Telegraaf states that, I believe, 70% of the people in the banking sector receive training in the banking sector while employment is shrinking. I think it would be very sensible if employers and employees invested more money in retraining, retraining and retraining to a sector where there is employment, where there is job growth. Then you make sure that education money is used effectively. That is part of the discussions I have to have with the employers and employees about the establishment of the learning account. I must also consult with employers and employees to see how the effectiveness of these training jars can be increased. Finally, Mr Wiersma's question on the stakes. Next week I have a meeting with my colleague from Education about a Lifelong Learning and the question of how we are going to work out the coalition agreement in the near future. Then, of course, I will have discussions with the social partners on how to develop this further at collective and sectoral level. In addition to informing Mr Wiersma about the money being spent, I would like to assure him that I will also inform him about my further development in the coming period of this important point in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finalizing Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. I welcome these commitments and, above all, the commitment to speed them up. That's very necessary. However, the Minister states that some funds are working very well. Well, that could be true. I also know examples that work well and fortunately but, otherwise, it would be a much bigger problem in the sense that more money is not being spent properly. That is precisely why it is so important to us that we make this personal, that people with a personal budget can find the best way to get training and not look for where it is available. That is the case now. I would ask the Minister to take this very strongly into account in the letter and the commitments he has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	Two points very briefly. I think we can also learn from sectors where things are going well: what are the distinguishing points in one sector from which we can learn for other sectors? Then there is the second point. The coalition agreement states that we want a breakthrough in an individual learning account; that is precisely the point Mr Wiersma is making. That's right. That is why I will outline to my budget debate how I intend to deal with it in the near future, but thank you for this encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm a little out of patience when it comes to training funds. In 2016, for the umpteenth time, the Chamber said to the cabinet: talk to social partners, because in 13% of these education funds you can retrain to another sector. For example, there is little new work in the banking sector, but there you cannot retrain with that money to a sector where there is work. It's gonna happen to you. Would the Minister, in addition to this commitment, also like to carry out the old 2016 motion again? We want him to talk to the social partners to say that it is now done with those funds that forbid you to retrain for a job in another sector. I would like to hear what the current percentage of education funds is that allows you to retrain, so that we know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	I do not know this background to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, but I do feel his emotion and urgency. That's what I'm gonna do. I would like to take this into account in the discussion with the social partners to map this out. I would also like to take this point into account in the letter I have just promised to Mr Wiersma, which comes before the budget. Again, I don't know the past of this, so I'm really gonna have to look into that. I'll go over that motion to see what's happened to it since 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	The aim of the Telegraaf article was that it would actually only be the responsibility of employees to be aware of training opportunities. But we know that people with vocational training make the least use of these opportunities, either because they do not have access to them or because they do not know at all that these opportunities exist. Does the Minister agree with me that we cannot unilaterally impose this responsibility on employees? And, if so, is he willing to stress the responsibility of employers proactively and explicitly in his consultations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yeah, I'm willing to. In fact, analysis also shows that, in particular, highly educated people are more likely to receive training, while low-skilled people, the elderly, people with a distance from the labour market or those working in SMEs do so on average less. There's still a world to win. That's what the R&D funds are for. In view of the developments in the labour market, where there is tightness but also major changes in composition, it is very important that we bring this issue to the attention of employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	De Telegraaf rightly outlines that a number of sectors are hard hit by digitisation and robotisation, such as the financial sector. Jobs are created in other sectors. I can imagine that precisely those sectors that are hard hit and where many jobs are disappearing need extra money and that there may be a need to move between sectors. Is the Minister prepared to include this in the exploration with the social partners? How can we push budgets so that the money really ends up in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, I'm willing to take that, but I'd like to give you a profit warning in advance. These funds are often sectorally built up. For example, the financial sector and the tech sector have a separate fund. But you could think of the following. In a sector where people go because there is a shortage, such a fund could be available for people entering from outside, precisely to find the connection to the labour market. That way you can make better use of the money in that sector. From that angle, I would like to take this into account in my discussions with the social partners. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. We'll be done sooner than we originally intended. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
