ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week, following a study by the Consumers' Association, it was announced that the quality of the services provided by the Tax Phone is still inadequate, as in previous years. I have the following questions for the Secretary of State for Finance. I ask these questions because people have to fill out their tax returns massively at the moment. Secretary of State, can you agree with the results of the Consumer Association's investigation? Can you motivate your answer? How do you explain that relatively simple questions asked via the Tax Phone are answered just a little more well than wrong by Tax Phone employees? It was worse at first, and now it's a little better. How do you explain that important care questions, which often affect hundreds of thousands of Dutch people, are answered worse than those that are relevant to much less taxpayers? Those are usually the more difficult questions. Do you find it worrying with 50PLUS that the only answer via the Tax Phone is about the inability to deduct prescribed medicines from tax if they have been paid out of their own risk? What are you going to do about this? Over 11 million people are on medication. This is a question that is very relevant to a lot of people. In addition to the Tax Phone, good online information can help. In response to questions from Mr Van Weyenberg of 18 March last year, you indicated that you were going to make a qualitative impact there. How do you explain that, according to the Consumers' Association, finding complete, adequate answers to Belastingdienst.nl leaves something to be desired? What are you going to do about this specifically? Finally, on-line information. As a test on the sum I myself went to look at Belastingdienst.nl to see if I could easily find information about the deductibility of medicines. Medicinal products prescribed by a doctor are deductible without conditions according to the website. Is that impression correct? As far as I could verify, it does not say on the website that medicines that are subject to its own risk are not deductible. It says that its own risk as such is not deductible. If I see this correctly, would you like to modify and clarify the website on this point? In particular, it is necessary to ask the person concerned why it has not been reimbursed, i.e. because it falls under his own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Van Rooijen and I agree that it is important that the taxpayer always gets the right information. When he took office as Secretary of State, the Tax Phone did not exist yet, but the legislation was also much simpler at the time. The Tax Phone is an important part. By the way, a quarter less is being called on than in the peak year, but the Tax Phone is in favour of answering an important part of the questions. Essentially, it does. 90% of the questions are trial questions. There are few problems to properly answer process questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	My answers lead to joy in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	When it comes to the remaining 10% of the questions, 87% of the common questions are well answered. That's what an external party test shows. It is therefore a limited part of the questions that is not answered properly. The Consumers' Association naturally focuses on a number of such questions. They're not being answered as well. It's better than last year. It's not going well enough. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen, but I agree with the Consumers' Union. That's kind of messing with my head, too. We are going to do things about that; that was an important question from Mr Van Rooijen. The questions that go wrong are generally not in the so-called dialog support, read: the computer. The 1,500 employees can look at the answers in the computer. These questions are generally not included. We are now going to do this more stringently. Questions that are not in the computer are no longer answered by the BelTel employees. They are answered by a special team of specialists. That is what we are now introducing, as a result of this. It has to be better; I agree with Mr Van Rooijen. The answers of the special team will then be reviewed. We're gonna see if it works. We're gonna see if that's how we're gonna get a referral. With regard to the deductibility of medicines, I can say that medicines that go beyond their own risk are at most eligible for compensation. Of course, this is not the case under the own risk, because that is what the risk is for. If it goes beyond it, there's another threshold. If it then goes beyond that, it is, in principle, eligible for reimbursement. The answers to this question from the Tax Phone were not always clear. At the request of Mr Van Rooijen, I will see to it that it is placed well on the site, because I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. With him I say with emphasis that the Tax Phone was not there in my day as Secretary of State. This does not mean that the tax legislation at the time was much simpler than it is now, but that aside. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to clarify that drug costs that fall under its own risk are not deductible. If you look at the website, it is not immediately distractable. That is why many wrong answers are given to questions. In 2014, it has already been shown that, if good information is provided, the number of requests for deductions will also be significantly reduced. This demonstrates the great importance of information. I have one more question for the Secretary of State about the transport costs for visiting the hospital. It's about 7 million cases. Transport costs obviously include the depreciation costs of the car. It is often argued that depreciation should remain the same linearly per year, but apparently the Tax Administration regularly states that in the early years the decline in value is greater, in other words that it is not linear. We would like clarification on this point, for example by means of a calculation aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	I can't judge the usefulness of a computational aid. There are very few further legal frameworks, except that it concerns the purchase costs, the residual value and the duration of use. But I'll take a look at it. The taxpayer has quite few handles; I must give that to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	That seems a little thick on this one. I'll make it clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	We have received a remarkable undertaking here. In 2015, there was an extra check. If you took the cost of medication wrongly because they were under your own risk, you were extra checked and you could get a fine. But in 2017 it is wrong on the website and people get wrong information. If they use the Tax Telephone information and deduct the costs of medicines that are not reimbursed because they are subject to their own risk, those costs may be deducted according to the Tax Telephone and the website...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	Does the Secretary of State impose post-charges and fines on people who have received the wrong answer from the Tax Phone to a question about the deduction of medical costs? Then how can he explain that to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is always dangerous to react in general, shaking the sleeve, to cases that are still imaginary at the moment. Let me do it another way. I am grateful to Mr Omtzigt for this warning. I'm gonna go back in history and see if things go wrong. I will then see if anything can be done about this. Let me answer the question at this abstract level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	Casusism is not imaginary. There are people who want to fill out their tax returns to their consciences and call the Tax Phone. In just over half of the special cases, people get the right answer. In just under half of the cases, people get the wrong answer. That has to end. Last year my colleague Mr Groot was here. It was on exactly the same subject at the time. When will the Secretary of State end this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	Now I'm gonna stand up for the IRS. It is absolutely not true that the answers given by the Tax Administration, but in half of the cases, are correct. In 90% of cases, these are procedural questions. In general, good answers are given. 87% of the other substantive questions, the most common ones, are answered correctly. This is a sample of the Consumers' Association. That sample is not a representative sample of the questions asked. Just as much as I'm saying it needs to be better. This year is also better, but it has to be better; we agree with each other. I have just explained in detail what measures are currently being taken to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have one short question. The Secretary of State will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. I would ask the Secretary of State if he would reply to Mr Omtzig's question in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	To conclude all 'climbing and clearing', I will now undertake to say something in the six-month report, both on improvements to the Tax Administration and on the resulting case that Mr Omtzigt has reported, as soon as it is on the agenda. This will not yet be the case with the April half-yearly report, but with the subsequent one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	I find six months very far away, especially in view of the fact that the declarations have to be made now. People need to know that if they don't get a good answer, they're at risk of a post-tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	My question is whether the Secretary of State would like to reply very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	The measures are now being taken. We do not need to wait for the next half-yearly report. I am concerned with the report on its results. As far as the degree of improvement is concerned, half-yearly reporting is the appropriate opportunity. But the measures are now being taken; they are not being delayed. That was also Mr Van Rooijen's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	That's right. I also look forward to good cooperation over the coming years, Mr President. A commitment is now being made to report back on a tax return that people now have to make in November, while there is another report in April.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-5.u20	I suggest that, if we are not allowed to discuss this now, you allow me to ask for a letter in the course of my work so that it arrives within a month. After all, it is about the current declaration campaign.
