ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, since the addition of 'and Employment' came in 1981. In the first term, Mrs Yücel is the first to speak on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. This morning we heard on the radio that at a child care organization in Bussum a man had been arrested who had child pornography in his possession. I heard the parents on the radio. Those who have listened to this have undoubtedly heard the fear that sounded through those voices. As a mother, as a parent who also had children at a childcare organisation, you can imagine so much. I just wanted to think about that first. The feeling of injustice, the division between young and old, poor and rich, low and highly educated, between cultures and beliefs, it affects us all. We see it with the Brexit, we see it with Trump and we see it here. Unequal opportunities lead to higher unemployment among immigrants, women, the elderly and the less educated. Unrighteousness is felt by discrimination, in all kinds of ways against different people. Various groups in our society are being pushed further and further apart. Screamers dominate the debate and we do not listen anymore. This is harmful, not so much for the adults among us, but especially for all those young people and all those children who have to grow up in this society. Early selection is one of the main causes. Children grow up in the same environment, go to the same school in the same neighborhood and marry the girl from the same bubble. Worlds are separate. Standards and values are not always shared, which makes understanding for another less rapid. This starts at a very young age. That is why childcare is so important, regardless of the promotion of parental employment opportunities. It offers children the opportunity to develop themselves together at a very young age in a good and safe environment, to play together with other children, to deal with rest and regularity and to grow up with norms and values that apply to everyone. Childcare has been hard hit in the years of the crisis. Fewer and fewer children did not go to childcare because of the higher costs. Parents went looking for creative solutions to arrange the care of their children. That should not be necessary in a prosperous country like the Netherlands. In recent years the PvdA has therefore invested heavily in childcare in this cabinet. Segregation, inequality of opportunity and division begin at a very young age. We have invested hundreds of millions to get more children into care, to make care cheaper for parents, to improve quality and to increase safety. Parents can go back to work with peace of mind. More children can develop in a safe and healthy environment. But we're far from there. We must be aware that these are the most vulnerable in our society, babies, toddlers, toddlers, the future of our country. It's time to move on now. Professionalism in childcare needs to be further improved. Development must be at the forefront. Childcare is more than just a labour market tool. Fortunately, this idea of the Labour Party and of this minister is being held ever wider, not only here in the Chamber, but also outside: by parents, employees in child care, industry organisations, employers, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, scientists, pedagogues and so on. The ESC opinion on "A fair start" is a great example of this. Employers, employees and crown members together say that the next step should be to provide a basic offer for all children from 2 years of age.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to intervene. I say to all future speakers that I realize that it is election time, but that we are keeping the interruptions short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	I didn't need that memory, because this actually looked more like a campaign pool. However, Mrs Yücel has to admit that unfortunately the Labour Party has not managed to achieve the development right of young children, which a whole number of parties in this Chamber have been asking for for years, what the ESC calls for and what the whole field is crying for. I like the words for the future very much, but over the last four years you will have a very lean report. Surely that cannot be different from the conclusion, even if we look at the legislative proposal before us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	I don't understand any of this. We have invested heavily in childcare, to keep it affordable and to get it. People who have low incomes and send their children to childcare are largely compensated. We have prevented a shift in resources at the expense of children in larger cities. We have also allocated extra money to the children in the smaller cities. We have allocated 60 million, precisely to provide a basic offer for children whose parents do not both work. We invest in quality. These are all important conditions and major breakthrough measures, which must ensure that we are going to regulate the basic offer as a next step from 2 years onwards, for which my predecessor, Mrs Hamer, as spokesperson, tabled an initiative legislative proposal a long time ago. We all have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs Yücel needs a long run, but in the end the high word comes out: we still have to deal with it. That's what I find disappointing. D66 has worked with the cabinet and has helped to provide additional money for the childcare allowance. In fact, we have had to negotiate hard with your party for this. This has been achieved, but the conclusion is that the development right of young children, D66, wants it, and the Labour Party, unfortunately, has not yet succeeded in this cabinet period. I think we should just be honest about that. It has to happen in the future, Mrs Yücel says so herself, but it should have been settled by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	I do not understand at all that Mr van Weyenberg is doing so late about all kinds of measures that have been taken, precisely in order to achieve that basic offer. We agree that more needs to be done. But sometimes we cannot take all the steps at once. But you cannot deny that very important steps have been taken. I call that $60 million for toddler care. That's what municipalities are working on. Money has been added for the resources that are lagging behind. Childcare has become hugely cheaper for parents. We invest in quality. These are all conditions to finally give the final blow to settle the basic offer with each other from 2 years of age. Mr. Chairman. We also see it in the governance agreement concluded last year by the Minister with the UNG. This agreement was the basis of the legislative proposals we are discussing today. The first legislative proposal, on harmonisation, allows working parents to apply for child care allowances for the preschool playroom. This could promote mixed groups and prevent division and segregation. The chances of working parents placing their children in a preschool playroom are increasing. This is a good step for the development of all children. But can the Minister explain how much parents need to use short-term care as is the case in the playground? How many working parents now make use of children's playrooms and how many working parents are expected to make use of the right to childcare allowance? How does this relate to the number of parents using long-term childcare facilities? To what extent does the Minister think that childcare sites will try to take over the supply of short-term care for children's playrooms? Is the Minister prepared to monitor this proposal for segregation and division in the coming years, in order to return to its evaluation of the law? The Minister has indicated that some parents will have to pay a little more in the transition to the right to childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	I see an interruption by Mr Heerma on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	The PvdA Group is hitting an interesting point here. The motivation of major advocates of harmonisation is always aimed at countering segregation and division. I believe that the spokesman for the Labour Party is at risk of new forms of division arising as a result of the disappearance of traditional children's playrooms. BOinK, the elderly child care organisation, also points to this risk in a letter we are receiving this week. The Labour Party is asking for monitoring, but what could happen to prevent groups of parents from dropping out? I am thinking, for example, of parents who have difficulty with regular childcare, but who are in preschool playrooms. Will there not also be new initiatives at local level, outside this law, which meet needs that are offered by playgrounds but not by the harmonised child centres?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	I do have two concerns. On the one hand, there is a risk that segregation will be increased, on the other hand, that the expertise and expertise available to children's playrooms will gradually disappear. The expertise in children's playrooms is very valuable, and we must pay close attention to that. I would be interested to hear the Minister's answers explaining how he sees it, but I would like the municipalities to do the same. This does not necessarily need to be regulated by laws and regulations, but municipalities have an interest in good facilities, whether they are children's playrooms, childcare organisations or child centres under development. Care must be taken to ensure that they become as many mixed groups as possible and that we do not get a one-sided shift to just one sector, but that they work together. That's how I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	With this, the Labour Party goes a little further than just monitoring developments. I think that's good. I would also ask for a response to what the VNG writes, namely that as a result municipalities are given less room to direct and direct locally, which the Labour Party says is so important. But also on the suggestion made by full-time parents, precisely given the risks the Labour Party also indicates, to take more time to do a number of things. It's different for a number of preschool playrooms too fast to make that transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	I welcome an active role of the municipalities to really manage this and prevent segregation. I would like to think about what we can do for that. With regard to the timetable, we must also bear in mind that something can go too fast. There has been an agreement from the field for these legislative proposals, so they are well-behaved. It is in all our interests that it be properly implemented and that we do not ask the impossible. I am sure the Minister will tell us in detail how he sees it. The Minister has indicated that some parents will have to pay a little more in the transition to a child care allowance. This is because some municipalities do not ask for their own contribution for the use of children's playrooms. So this may vary from one municipality to another, but can the Minister indicate whether we are talking about a few euros, a few tens of euros or a few hundred euros? Another point that concerns my group is the position of children of non-working parents. All children, regardless of the status of their parents, the city in which they live and the neighbourhood in which they grow up, deserve the best possible start in education. All children should be able to grow up in a playful and developing environment such as childcare. We therefore very much support the EUR 60 million that the Minister has set aside for municipalities to provide for all young children between 2 and 4 years of non-working parents. In doing so, we are taking essential steps to promote the employment opportunities of these parents, but also of the development opportunities of the children. More importantly, we are giving these children a fair chance of a future. What is the situation with regard to the use of these resources? Are any of the congregations working on this yet? I also note that children's playrooms are increasingly being converted into child centres. Does this transposition affect access for children of non-working parents? Do municipalities offer enough places? When purchasing places, do municipalities take into account the market and competition between large and small providers, between childcare locations and playgrounds? Is the Minister prepared to monitor this in the near future? Childcare has also been alarmed by various fraud cases in recent years. One point that I would like to draw my attention to is the fact that the right to childcare allowance must be subject to a contract between the holder and the parent. This proposal should be accompanied by a contract between parents and holders on 1 January 2018. Why was this chosen? How is the Minister going to prevent contracts from being created, perhaps under pressure or ignorance, which go beyond the provision of short-term care? Why, for example, was it not chosen to limit the right to childcare allowance to the number of hours of short-term care per week, for example two days, 16 hours a week, or to the number of hours reduced by parents in 2017? I would also like to refer to the response of the Tax Administration, which points to the risk that non-working parents could wrongly apply for child care allowances, which could lead them to face recovery. We have heard the previous discussions on recovery, and we find it undesirable that this possibility could exist. How's the minister looking at this? How can we prevent too many recoveries, which could cause parents problems? Not only for working parents, funding changes with the legislative proposals we are discussing today. The Innovation and Quality Bill simplifies and increases the quality of both facilities. In concrete terms, this means that it will be compulsory for 0-year-olds to employ one worker on three children. Now the norm is still one leader in four children. There are two fixed faces on a baby group and each child gets a mentor who follows the development. In addition, learning on the job is made possible for childcare workers. There will also be at least one teaching policy officer working with HBO level in each crèche. Finally, a long-cherished wish is being met from me and my group: educational child development goals are being led in care. This makes it easier to follow the child's development and to stimulate it playfully. The Labour Party naturally welcomes all these improvements in quality and therefore compliments the Minister and all the field parties involved. However, in order to have quality, supervision and enforcement are also very important. The Labour Party would like to know from this Minister about the supervisory framework of the inspection. How is the communication between holders, parents and Social Work Netherlands supporting the transposition? Can the Minister indicate which bottlenecks have so far been encountered in the Netherlands and how these bottlenecks have been resolved? Can the Minister share these issues with the Chamber? In addition to quality, enforcement and supervision, safety is very important for the Labour Party. This applies to most of the parties here. In my group's view, the four-eyed principle plays a very important role in this. The four-eye principle means that professionals can be seen or heard at any time by another adult during their work. In the note on the report, the Minister states the following. By no longer including the four-way principle as a separate requirement, but by making the risk of unwanted behaviour mandatory in the safety policy, supervision can make a wider weighting of the measures taken by a holder to reduce the risk of child abuse. My question to the Minister is: is there a situation in which the four-eyed principle does not need to be applied because the broader security plan then allows it? The Labour Party would consider this a very undesirable situation. That's why she likes to get clarity from the Minister. I'm considering a motion on this. My party wants to ensure, in anticipation of the further regulation, that the four-way principle, in line with the opinion of the Gunning Committee, remains a tough one, so that better monitoring and enforcement can be ensured. I note that much will be regulated in lower regulations such as General Management Measures. Can the Minister indicate, for next Tuesday's votes on each subject, what level of regulation this will come back to and, above all, when we, as the Chamber, will look forward to this regulation? Furthermore, the Minister starts with some pilots, such as the Task Force, the pilot innovation and the GGD pilot, to give parents an idea of the quality per location.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	Before I allow Mr Van Weyenberg to interrupt, I would suggest that you use the word pilot 'pilot project' instead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	There is still a lot to be done in lower regulation. The Chamber must always look for what it says yes to and how it is involved. I think Mrs Yücel's suggestion is very good, but I think the moment she asks is a little late. Isn't it better to ask for it before the start of the second term? Then we can take that with us. That would help me. It is interesting to receive it just before the vote, but I would like to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's point very well. If that's possible, please. If it's not possible, I don't think there's a man overboard for the Chamber either. I believe that there will be broad support for dealing with lower regulation with the Minister in a committee. They are such important effects of the bill that I think we really need to discuss it in the Chamber. I think that's what support is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	That kind of depends on the minister, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	Anyway, he hears everything that's said here, so he's gonna respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u20	It is being hung, so we have the freedom to set it up for general consultation anyway. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes, exactly, and if we want to do it any other way, we can add some things to the law around the hanging. That's exactly why it's indeed... I now agree with the question that has been put to the Minister and whether it can be done before the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u22	Lots of pilots. Can the Minister also indicate in an overview how broad...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u23	Hm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u24	"Taste projects" had to be it, didn't it? That is a justified point from the President. It is important that the viewers and listeners understand what we are talking about. So, pilot projects. Can the Minister also indicate in an overview how broad these pilot projects will be, when they will start and when the initial results of these pilot projects will become known? With these two legislative proposals, we are taking another giant step forward in terms of the quality and accessibility of childcare. For my group, this is just the beginning. The Labour Party strives for high-quality child services, in which all children can grow up in a healthy and safe environment, allowing parents to get to work with peace of mind. In the coming period, we will have to go further into this. Babycare will need to be further improved, leave arrangements at the child's birth should be more ambitious and the ESC opinion implemented. Integral facilities for children between 0 and 12 should be further promoted. Twinning and unequal opportunities must be avoided. Now investing in young children will bring much more benefits to society as a whole. Investing in young children is investing in the future of our country. I am pleased that we have been able to take crucial steps in this respect with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u25	I would just like to say that Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP has signed off on this debate. I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66. You've seen him in action before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr President, I get the impression that you are considering a career as a sports commentator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u27	No, I'm not. A chairman tries to wake everyone up with a joke every now and then. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u28	I wish you a lot of coffee, Mr. Chairman. We are actually discussing two legislative proposals today, one on the quality and one on the harmonisation of the more; an issue already included in the government agreement of the present cabinet and which we are now discussing here in the 90th minute of the playing time, to stay in those terms. I must say that I have a mixed feeling here when it comes to harmonization. I support the direction, but I also very much like the feeling of a missed opportunity. I understand that parties in a coalition sometimes simply have different ideas, but that is also what my group thinks about this bill and how it has been in this area over the past four years. D66 wants to put development law at the centre of all young children as the ultimate way to ensure more equal opportunities in this country. After all, childcare is not only a labour market tool that allows both parents to work in the knowledge that their child is well cared for, but it is also certainly a development tool. It is an opportunity to prevent delays, to challenge children and to ensure that children can develop playfully. There are many recommendations to take more radical steps in this respect, not least the advice of the Economic and Social Council and the Education Council to give all young children between 2 and 4 a right of development. I would have liked to have seen that we could have taken greater steps on that point. When I look at this proposal, it is a bit of a missed opportunity in that respect. There's no real development law. A step is being taken in the area of funding, one step in the right direction, I say straight away in the area of development law, but the real battle for development law, where all children sit together in one group, apparently did not succeed. This is a task for the new cabinet, but at the same time I would have liked to go further on this point, also in the knowledge that we have been talking about this for so long. I have a number of concerns about the current proposal. One of them is............................................................................................................................................................................................................. How do we prevent this intermediate step from widening the gap, in contrast to the aim of countering segregation? I think that is a fair question from Mr Heerma. I have some concerns about that, too. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Where you really want to go, of course, is a system in which all children can develop in one type of organisation, including children of parents whose only one person is working and also children who are lagging behind or who are threatening to lag behind. They all have to sit together to really fight segregation. At that point, we should try to take the big step forward at a formation table. I do have a question for the Minister. Does he think this bill is part of that, a step in that direction, or not? In the explanatory memorandum, two thoughts are linked. On the one hand, it is said: no, this is a separate measure. On the other hand, there is a footnote: I think it is actually a kind of intermediate step towards the end goal. That is the final objective I share with Mrs Yücel of the Labour Party. In this way, it seems that the compromise and differences of opinion of the coalition parties can even be found in the documents. How does the Minister see this? Is this really a part of development law, or isn't it? I'm asking some very specific questions about that law. How do we deal with holders of a toddler's playroom and a daycare center at one address? If I understand correctly, they have to register twice, there are double checks and there have to be two pedagogical policy plans. In doing so, we are creating a bureaucratic problem. The Minister also acknowledges that this is a challenge. How does he intend to make this as workable as possible? My second question concerns the financial consequences, including for parents. All the pieces say there's still a lot of uncertainty. Can the Minister explain a little more about this by indicating the financial impact of this bill on parents, but certainly also on children's playrooms and day care facilities? What will this proposal mean for them? I think it has been written down very searchingly, while this proposal has been worked on for a long time. My question is therefore whether the Minister can say a little more about this. The Tax Administration warns in the test that there would be a risk that more people would apply for child care allowance, while they are not entitled to it. On the basis of this legislative proposal, they could be given the impression that the childcare allowance is intended for them as well, while under the current rules my group would like to change it, by the way. One of the main problems of the childcare allowance scheme is, moreover, that people are asking for something that they are not entitled to subsequently or that they are not passing on changes which make them feel obliged to repay very large sums. The child care allowance is a huge amount of money and people are therefore in trouble. Can the Minister say again what he intends to do with the Secretary of State for Finance to make this risk as small as possible? I do not think that we want thousands of people who have wrongly applied for something that will actually get them into trouble. This brings me to the Innovation and Quality Childcare Act. There will be more HBO-educated pedagogical policy staff, which seems valuable to me as a complement. However, I wonder how we're gonna make sure we have enough people to do this later. Fortunately, the labour market is improving and this seems to me to be a cramped profession at the moment. Does the Minister share my concern? If so, has it been discussed with the sector? We can make nice plans and further improve the quality of childcare by giving coaching D66 this support wholeheartedly, but the people must of course be there as well. I'm a little worried about that offer. If the Minister shares my concern, I ask him how he intends to deal with this problem. I'm curious to know exactly what's going on with counting that HBO-educated pedagogical policy officer for the minimum number of professionals to be employed. How do we ensure extra coaching that leads to the realization of the educational goals? That is what it is meant for. It is not a question of placing an HBO on each group, but the presence, coaching and help of these HBOs should further improve the quality. I would like to explain this further. Each child centre must draw up a pedagogic policy plan. I am very much in favour of this, but I wonder if childcare organisations are now clear about what should be in it. Because we are not waiting for the creation of a paper tiger. We want something to come that supports quality and therefore the development of children. I am already experiencing some concern in the sector that this will be mainly an administrative act, which of course is not the intention. Can the Minister say anything about that? The group's standards are getting pretty messed up. My group supports that direction. For the youngest children we provide relatively more leaders and leaders than for babies. That is a very far-reaching and expensive measure. I assume we're going to monitor carefully whether this will produce what we hope for. Like I said, this is in the papers. I support this and expect the measure to work, but it seems appropriate to keep the finger on the wrist. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees it. I'll be on the Gunning Committee. Like Mrs. Yücel, I watched the news last night and it beats my heart too. That happened to me as the parent of a daughter, but I think even people without children can imagine how much the parent's care is. I think this shows how important it is to have good quality rules. Many measures have been taken in response to the previous case, which was a real abuse of children in childcare in Amsterdam. Unfortunately, this shows that risks can never be ruled out 100% by law, however much we would all like here. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the case in Bussum, but this brings me to the report of the Gunning Committee. I have two questions about that. There's a trust inspector now. I know, for example, that they have some concerns in the municipality of Amsterdam about the role of the inspector, because they may encounter things that cannot be passed on to the inspection in substance. I think that's a struggle, and I'm curious how the minister is in that struggle. If there's information that can't be shared with the inspection, you're wondering if we don't miss a chance here. But he's a trust inspector and you want someone like that to help improve the shelter. So this is a search for balance. I would appreciate it if the Minister could indicate how he sees the role of that trust inspector in the future. I note with interest in the evaluation of the recommendations, and further research has been carried out, that it is very often stated that some of the recommendations have been implemented. A recommendation is about enforcement. One of the questions now is whether we can really demand that poor-performing care should have the quality in order or otherwise closed within a given period of time. That was recommendation 57, to be exact. I would like to hear how the Minister thinks we can be sharper on this point. Both legislative proposals have major implications in practice. They are already starting on January 1, 2018, while we see that a lot still needs to be worked out in further regulation, in General Management Measures. This has been a long wait and I would therefore like to make meters with this bill, but it must be workable. How does the Minister see this? I do hear from practice that with what still needs to be clarified, the deadline could soon be short. Will the Minister keep his finger on the pulse and see if 1 January is really feasible? I hope it works, but there's still a lot to work out. How does the Minister see this concern in practice? There is a great deal of support for the steps we are taking, but this is a matter of concern, precisely because there are still so many General Management Measures to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Van Weyenberg began his speech by pointing out that he did not go far enough and that it was a step. I understand that from the point of view of D66, but he is now coming to the end of his speech with the observation that some things may go too fast. I can really imagine that D66 would actually want to take a bigger step, but that is no reason to introduce the lesser step, as D66 says, at a speed that is going to cause problems. Several parties argue for a little more rest. For Working Parents, writes very explicitly: postpone everything until 1 January 2019. How does D66 look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u30	I have also read that, including in the memorandum of Working Parents, to which Mr Heerma refers. That's exactly why I'm asking. My great disappointment relates to the right of young children to develop and to harmonise. I would have liked to go to one facility, while we're just taking one step. It is a step forward, no misunderstanding, but it is mainly about quality requirements and rules on group size, for example. I ask my question about both laws, but in particular about these. I get the feeling that Mr Heerma is thinking: it really cannot be at this rate. I haven't gotten there yet. However, I did not ask the Minister how realistic it is and how, knowing that much still needs to be worked out, we are keeping our finger on the pulse. Suppose all these General Management Measures come on November 1st, the deadline will really be too short. That is exactly why I asked the Minister this question. We have to make pace, but it must also be workable. This applies to all those involved. Parents will also suffer when things are unworkable for childcare institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u31	You might think of postponement, but you could also suggest that there are now two legislative proposals for.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Is that what Mr Van Weyenberg is thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u32	Where "AMvB" stands for: General Measure of Governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u33	These are detailed arrangements and they need the childcare institutions to know exactly what they will have to comply with. So I first ask the question about the timetable of the General Management Measures. That is what I want to see if the timetable is feasible. I also asked the Minister: will you check in the meantime if this is workable? Perhaps my enthusiasm for what is ahead is greater than Mr Heerma's, I do not know, but we do have the same concerns. Whatever we do here, it must be workable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Van Weyenberg continues and goes towards a conclusion, I have the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u35	That's right. I have one more point: the parent participation crèches. This is the subject of a letter from the Minister in which he writes that he sees the added value of those parent participation crèches. He also offers an opening to partially bring these crèches under the childcare allowance. This may be a lower childcare allowance, but it will allow these organisations to continue to exist. I was happy with that letter. A number of parliamentary groups have been working hard on this in recent years. I'm kind of curious how we're gonna tap this now, to say it unparliamentaryly. Is this what we decided? Do these organisations now know that there is still a child care allowance for them, albeit different? When are we going to formally suspend that? Then there will also be an alternative quality framework, because some requirements cannot be met by these organisations, not because their reception is not in order quality, but because, for example, they do not work with professionals, to name but a few. One point in the letter surprises me, namely the statement that the new framework that the Minister is now going to allow, after long press by the Chamber, applies only to existing parental participation crèches and not to new ones. We're really talking about a handful. Let's get this right at once. It seems to me that it is legally quite complicated to tell a new participation nursery, if there are any: you are exactly the same, but the rules do not apply to you. That seems to me to be a complicated case in terms of legal equality, also legal. I would like a response from the Minister: is it legally sustainable? Are we supposed to want this? It's not like there's gonna be dozens of them every day. And even so, I might have a different view than the Minister. Why do we need this limit anyway? If there is ever a new weighing moment, then the minister or his successor can always make a proposal. Isn't it better to just settle this for parent participation crèches that meet the quality framework? Wouldn't it be better if one or two more were to come and apply this to them? It also seems extremely complex in terms of equality of law. I will table a motion on this subject in the second term, in case I do not get a firm commitment. I think I will do the same on behalf of a number of parties present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. Good and accessible childcare is important for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u37	Wait a minute. If Members wish to discuss it, I would ask them to do so outside the Chamber. Or they should listen to the colleague. It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u38	Good and accessible childcare is important for every child. Childcare is good for the development of children and should be accessible to all children, including children of low-income parents or non-working parents. Harmonisation of childcare and preschool facilities is a step towards greater integration. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the distinction between childcare and children's playrooms should be as narrowed as possible. Both the Economic and Social Council and the Education Council recommended moving towards a comprehensive provision rather than different forms of childcare. Unfortunately, with this proposal, the government only chooses to align the financing structure and quality, and not yet an integral and inclusive system. Nor is there any choice to remove market forces from childcare, and that is a pity. GroenLinks is a supporter of a public system in which all children can use child care free of charge for a number of days a week. This is how we counter segregation and prevent learning disadvantages. Why does the cabinet not take this step towards a broad pre-school provision? The harmonisation law will also require children's playrooms to meet the quality requirements of childcare. That's a good direction. Many municipalities are already in the process of transforming toddler playroom work, but not all of them are ready. The Minister states that next year a number of municipalities will examine how the transformation takes place. Is it also being examined whether all the municipalities comply with the quality requirements and whether the Court is informed about them in good time? I'd like to hear that from the Minister. The question is also what these quality changes mean for the price of children's playroom work. Is there a visual on that? What will this do with the contributions that municipalities ask for to non-working parents and with the use of children's playroom work by parents? How is this monitored? With this harmonisation, the playroom work is put at a distance and left to the market, but is there sufficient insight into the impact of this bill on the playrooms of young children? Is it true that municipalities may have problems with state aid and market distortion if they grant subsidies to childcare organisations? I also have a question about the two daily parts of free pre-school care offered by municipalities. Now 15% of toddlers are not in pre-school care. They're often children of parents who don't work. Through the agreements of the minister and the municipalities and the money the minister pays for this, all toddlers will soon have access to pre-school care. GroenLinks is very happy with that. It has been agreed that municipalities will receive 60 million for pre-school care, but that money is not earmarked. How is it monitored that all municipalities really offer a provision for toddlers? In addition, we are discussing today the proposed amendment to the Innovation and Quality Childcare Act. Good quality childcare is very important. The right quality requirements, good agreements, compliance and controls are essential in this respect. The proposed quality improvements were made in consultation with the field. In any case, this legislative proposal seems to be an improvement on the current situation. Within the present constellation this is therefore an improvement, but we would prefer to go to a public system. Then you can also look at qualities quite differently. After all, you may wonder if these are the right indicators for quality. One of the recommendations of the Gunning Commission was to strengthen the positioning of childcare as a provision, not only for working parents but also for the development of children. This development must therefore be at the heart of the quality requirements, but is this development of every child now well monitored? The teacher still has the function of assisting and is therefore not only concerned with the development of children. How would this work? The child care organisations KindeRdam and Korein Groep have sent a letter to the House of Representatives. They indicate that they find it far too much about structural quality characteristics and not enough about process quality. What does the Minister think of this observation? Can he reflect on this and does he think that the present decision will really improve the quality? The Gunning Committee has also made several recommendations to improve quality. After pressing, we received an analysis of the state of play by recommendation last week. This shows that the majority of the recommendations made five years ago were only partially implemented. I ask the Minister why not all the recommendations have been fully implemented. Does the Minister consider that he himself has speeded up the implementation of the recommendations and thus improving the quality of childcare? This is particularly true of the recommendations made by the Gunning Commission to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Many of these recommendations have only been implemented in part or not. In addition, the proposal for quality change has a significant impact on finances. The professional-child ratio in babies goes from four babies on one professional to three to one. This is good for the quality and attention that an employee has for the baby, but this also makes child care more expensive per baby. What is the price increase to be paid for? Childcare centres are likely to increase their rates. That doesn't have to be a lot, but for low-income parents, who are now receiving a lot of childcare allowance, that price increase will be relatively high. GroenLinks is concerned that baby care for low-income families will suddenly become much more expensive, thus reducing their use and reducing the demand for childcare. So we can have another yo-yo effect just when the sector is restored. Here again, therefore, my question is whether there is any insight into the effects on low incomes. Has the Minister had an examination of the impact this will have on the price of baby care and how is it monitoring the impact of the new quality requirements on the price and use of childcare, particularly for low-income parents? Furthermore, several industry organisations and parents' representatives indicate that they find the timeline very tight when the lower regulation becomes known only after the summer. How does the Minister see this? Does he think that all childcare organisations can meet the quality requirements in good time? Moreover, I must point out that there are also daycare centres which have already begun to improve the provisions of this law. Of course, they deserve all the praise, but what about the childcare organisations that are not yet ready? Can they meet all the quality requirements in good time when the lower regulation becomes known only after the summer? Finally, I will deal with parental participation crèches. GroenLinks believes that there should be a level playing field for them. Parents who make use of existing parental participation crèches that meet all the conditions are therefore rightly entitled to child care allowance. However, parents who use new parental participation crèches that meet the same safety and quality requirements will not be entitled to childcare allowance. Why does the Minister make this choice? That's not a level playing field, is it? Parental participation crèche is precisely the best example of the participatory society, which this cabinet still supports, but in this way these parent participation crèches are disadvantaged. I would like to emphasise that GroenLinks wants to create a public childcare system in which all children are entitled to a number of days of free care. It is therefore not a question of market forces competing on price and quality, but of quality, as is the case in education. Then every child will have the opportunity to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mrs Voortman talks about parental participation crèches. I get her point. There have been studies on current parent participation crèches. Following this, the Minister proposed a separate scheme for parental participation crèches. In Mrs Voortman's view, how can we establish in advance that the quality of future parent participation schemes (opc) is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think we can do this in the same way as other daycare centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u41	Therefore, the normal supervisory and enforcement framework should enter into force equally for future parent participation crèches and should therefore at least comply with the current level, in accordance with the conclusions of the studies on current opc's?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u42	We believe it is very important that the safety and quality requirements are met, whether they are parental or other daycare facilities. However, there is a bit of a suggestion here that new parent participation crèches cannot, by definition, meet the quality requirements. I'm not so worried about that. It is precisely the research that has already been done that shows that the parent participation crèches that are now in place are doing a good job and really meet the quality requirements. I would find it very strange if the new parental participation crèches were to be subject to different rules than the current parent participation crèches and other nurseries. That is the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u43	Finally, Mrs Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u44	I think that Mrs Voortman and the PvdA are looking at quality in the same way and that we both think it is important for children to be able to develop well, including in parental participation crèches. The point about parent participation crèches is that there are many different faces on one group. The study on current parent participation crèches looked at the interaction between leaders and children. This therefore relates to the current forms of parental participation crèches. It seems important to me that there should be as many safety valves in advance as possible for possible future variations of parental participation crèches, so that the educational quality for the group is really in order. That's why I'm asking my question. I myself find it very complicated to give an opinion in advance on future variations in parental participation crèches. I would like to hear another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u45	Perhaps this is the difference between GroenLinks and the Labour Party. It sounds a bit like the Labour Party has a little less confidence in those parent participation crèches. You have to comply with the same legal framework, the same rules. That's what this is about. However, parental participation crèches that meet the same safety and quality requirements will not be entitled to child care allowance. So you can make a difference in principle between new parent participation crèches, the current parent participation crèches and the nurseries that exist. That fear of cold water does not share GroenLinks and I sincerely hope that the Labour Party will also participate in the motion which has just been announced by Mr Van Weyenberg and which will certainly support GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mrs. Yücel, you have a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u47	That's the whole point. Parental participation crèches do not have to comply with a very important principle that applies to other childcare organisations. That is the fixed face criterion. That is not just an instrumental demand. This criterion is intended to ensure that children can attach to safety and develop well. That is the concern of the Labour Party. It is, of course, something else if studies show that the current parent participation crèches are sufficiently compensating for this with the educational quality they offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u48	Could you get it a little more compact, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u49	However, in the view of the Labour Party, a more difficult assessment can be made of this in future parent participation crèches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u50	If the Labour Party were to be consistent, it would not have to give the current parental participation crèches the right to childcare allowance. That would be consistent, because that would be the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u51	I just saw other spokesmen at the interrupting microphone, but they've dropped out. I call Mr Ulenbelt on behalf of the SP Group. If I'm not mistaken, it'll be the last time he started here. He will take his amendment to item No. 8 to defend, which undoubtedly brings socialism a lot closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I was afraid you'd use the word "swan" because in history that didn't end well. Cicero talked about it, a Roman senator who spoke for the last time in the Roman Senate and died shortly afterwards. I hope that will be spared. That's where the word "swan" comes from, because a dying swan still seems to sing before he dies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u53	It's a good thing I chose another word, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u54	I'm very happy about that, too. I had already prepared myself for the word "swan song" and I thought it was such a nice indication that I brought it up myself. I'm gonna cut to the chase. The shelter is a place where day in, day out of thousands of parents entrust their children to the care of others. In child care with financial support so that parents can work, or in the preschool playroom so that their children have the opportunity to develop among other children. The dividing line between these two forms of childcare is actually fictitious. This has been a problem for many years, and we have therefore been expecting a greater commitment from childcare for many years to developing educational quality. That makes perfect sense: your child is only young once and you want it to have all the opportunities in any form of care. Today, hopefully, we are taking a final step to break that strange line of division, so that all children can have the opportunities they need. It will therefore be no surprise that the SP can agree to these proposals. After one of the blackest pages in the history of Dutch childcare, there is now finally a new framework for improving the quality of care. This framework should ensure that the law ensures safety in the childcare sector. The field, reception organisations, interest groups, science and not to mention the award committee: they have all contributed to this. It has been discussed a long time in the Lower House. It was then called the new surveillance. Well, now it's time. My party still sees opportunities to further improve safety in the workplace and quality. The first layer in an organization that works with it, of course, is the management layer. Although it is not the case everywhere, in many childcare organisations we see a very large distance from management, management, to the workplace and daily practice. A professional director of a childcare organisation may know a lot about driving, but if his or her only experience is to raise one's own offspring, that is not a guarantee of success at all. No matter how you turn it, raising your own children is of a totally different order than standing on a group with eight toddlers or when you have to take care of more babies. The sector has a governance code. I know that our chairman hates English words. So do I, so I totally agree with him. They could also just call it "government code," so a lot of people get it anyway. The special feature of that administrative code is that it consists of 100 pages, but does not include the word "security" or the word "safe." That's what worries me. Obviously there is talk in these circles about governance, transparency and all kinds of other difficult things, but safety is not discussed. Then, I think, words of concern are justified. There will be a General Measure of Governance, which I believe will be comprehensive. My group would like this to include the specific quality that a director of childcare organisations needs to ensure quality and safety in his or her organisation. Quality requirements are rightly set for employees. Then why are there no demands on the drivers? The content of the amendment is that there may also be requirements for directors and supervisors to ensure the quality framework. That is a perfectly logical addition to what is to come. One concern for the SP is its accessibility after harmonisation. In the written round, the government indicated that it expects the resources it wants to make available for a basic provision of all toddlers to fill the gap. Although we encourage all forms of basic provision, we are nevertheless critical on this point. The government is talking about 60 million now, but it will not be available until 2011, while this law will have to come into force in 2018. In that year there is 30 million available. Can the Minister guarantee that parents without work or families with one working parent will have access to care? What does that tell you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr Ulenbelt rightly says that the 60 million is far from going to the municipalities, but he mentioned the year 2011. I assume he means the year 2021. Then he will be correct in the Acts the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u56	I was wrong for 10 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u57	Reactive force doesn't hurt sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u58	It's 2021. Thank you for this cooperative help, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'd be happy to. Socialism tends to look back a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u60	Of course, he shouldn't have said that again. The fact that liberals do not learn from history does not mean that we do not know our history. The ESC opinion also shows that the cost of basic provision for children between 2 and 4 years of age could reach 230 million. Can the Minister explain how he can reconcile these differences? What is decisive for me is: can the Minister give guarantees that parents who do not have a job or whose parents work have access to this facility? Then there's the introduction. The most important effect is in the General Management Measures. When are we gonna see it? The Minister is now in a different capacity on election campaign and I also know that he will not lose his job, but if these General Administrative Measures come into the Chamber and we have all kinds of comments on them. If the law still needs to be implemented by the First Chamber, then it may be that only the beginning of the new childcare season will be all about the rules and then it will have to be implemented. So I am very curious whether the Minister already provides emergency measures and whether he has other things in mind in order to be able to implement all of this in time. Some people are already talking about postponement until 2019, which I do not think is a very good idea, but I would like to hear the Minister's response. It has already been mentioned by others: the shocking news about an employee in child care who is in possession of child pornography. There was a meeting of the parents last night and of course they were extremely distressed. Everyone will understand that. One of the parents said about this on the radio this morning: and this man was sometimes alone on the group. Now it is stated in the bill that consideration is being given to introducing a professional-child relationship at centre level rather than at group level in the General Measure of Governance. The note following the report states that the four-eyed principle, whereby two people at the same time keep an eye on the situation, is no longer included as a separate requirement. This whole debate started because someone was alone with children. That's how the four-eye principle came about. I would like the Minister to guarantee that the four-eyed principle is maintained proudly. That is what it all started, and it cannot, as far as our group is concerned, be allowed to water down the four-eye principle to something at centre level, which is one of the most important guarantees that it does not go wrong in childcare. It is well known that my group wants to go much further with childcare as a basic provision and that it wants market forces and that sort of thing. However, in this cabinet period we were no longer allowed to do so. Then we count our blessings with this step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna be the only one who, when you prepare for a law like this, is gonna think back to how it's been with you. I do know that the first day I brought our first child to child care was one of the most exciting days of my life, because you put such a tiny little hummel in the hands of others. Fortunately, I have generally had very good experiences. This week my youngest daughter said that she is now in school and does not go to day care: I want to go to day care again, Dad, because I miss it so much there. So I think that crèche has delivered real quality, but in order to embed it in a legislative proposal, it seems complicated to me. It does say something about how complicated it is sometimes to define quality. I told you, you put your most valuable possessions in the hands of others, often for several days a week. Then you should be able to assume that everyone here agrees that this is safe and that the quality is in order. For the VVD, childcare is a very important tool to ensure that both parents can work and combine care for children and work. We want this to be affordable and accessible and there is freedom of choice. It should also be a bit simple. When I look at both legislative proposals along these lines, we deal with two at the same time, and I do not think that this is often the case. However, many have already pointed out that these laws mainly lay down frameworks for matters that we will see later in lower regulation. I wanted to say 'the proof of the pudding is in the eating', but of course the President is not allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u62	Of course you can. Civilized English terms may be, but we try to avoid as many strange management terms as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u63	Oh, no management terms. Well, the proof of the pudding is in the food.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u64	That's just a standing expression. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u65	That is the main concern of my group. I'll start with the implementation and the entire timeline. Most of the provisions will enter into force as they stand, as from 1 January 2018, but we do not yet know exactly what all daycare centres and playrooms will have to comply with, as this is in lower regulation. The agreement between all parties stated that a number of issues will also be adapted in collective agreements. That will have effect again. This summer, daycare centres will already have to think about their hourly prices for next year. They'll have to discuss it with the parent committees in the fall. Is that real, if you don't know what you're gonna have to meet? How do we prevent us from making demands that cannot reasonably be met in such a short period of time? Someone mentioned the problem of the current shortage of staff in the childcare sector. Some requirements will also have consequences for the layout of the building. This applies, for example, to children's playrooms for the outdoor space, but it can also be due to the changed numbers of leaders one should have for babies. That can be complicated and cost a lot of money. We do not want organisations in childcare that are clearly of good will, but because of real, practical problems as of 1 January 2018 not to meet all the requirements, all of them suffering from inspection. I hope the Minister agrees with me. For the VVD, affordable childcare is of great importance. We were therefore very pleased that we were able to raise the child care allowance significantly for this year. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to increase it even further in the coming years. The question is, however, what are these measures going to mean, not even for childcare institutions, but for parents' wallets? The Minister indicated in the documents that cost-benefit analyses would be carried out for the various layers of legislation. In particular, does he want to look at what this means for childcare customers? What does this mean, quite simply, for the parents' wallet? A good intention of the law is that we want to get rid of ticking lists that offer false safety and above all cause a lot of annoyance. We want to see an integrated security policy that looks at the prevention of major dangers. Again, the question is whether this will actually work in practice. Is the Minister prepared to continue to monitor the real and experienced regulatory burden in the daycare centres in the coming year, if the legislative proposals have to prove themselves in practice? By law and regulation, the government has the tool of the business impact test. I read this morning that Minister Kamp wants to further optimize that thing for SMEs, but I took a look at it. There is a rather specific discussion on what legislative proposals and measures mean in practice for the providers of the current legislation, in this case nurseries. I would ask the Minister to take this business impact test, and I think that this is standard practice, but precisely on the basis of the questionnaire in the test and to inform the Court of Justice about it. The whole of the Chamber wanted previous speakers to say that they also know what the effect of these measures will be in practice. A commonly heard point of childcare providers operating in more municipalities is that they find it incredibly difficult for one municipality to be controlled very strictly on part A, while in the other municipality it is looked at differently. This complicates policy-making. How is the Minister going to use these legislative proposals to ensure that, even if you are active in more municipalities as a daycare center, you know what you're up to? The VVD welcomes the fact that it has succeeded in getting almost all interest groups on the table in the agreement at the basis of these legislative proposals, parents, providers and trade unions. The Minister must continue to do the same. In the debate on this subject, the VVD has already stated that it is also important to continue to test it with people who are not members of an industry organisation or who may not feel heard there. Also occasionally talk to individual childcare providers and also to individual parents. The VVD also welcomes the fact that there is room for experimental gardens in the law. The bill talks about pilots. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is going to grant them generously, although I do not know what number the Minister has in mind when it comes to the participants. This also depends on the number of people who are present, but let us not make too much of this. What appeals to me in the test gardens is the thought of at least the VVD translates that it is about increasing quality, but that, if you can prove that you can do it in a different way than is prescribed by law, there is also room for that. It is complicated, but I also ask the Minister whether it is possible for this principle to apply, first of all, 'comply or explain', but I make it 'apply or explain' for some parts outside the test gardens. I understand that this isn't easy, but if you look at the law, then I notice that sometimes we don't steer so much at a certain quality level, but also at: how do you do that? I understand that, but I am also looking for space and conditions to allow childcare providers to achieve this quality in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'm also excited about those test gardens, but looking at the law, I have the idea that this will only be possible at the earliest from 1 January 2018. I think that's a little far away. Maybe there are serious reasons for this, then I would like to hear it from the Minister, but does Mr Van 't Wout share the D66 approach to ask the Minister if he can speed it up a bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u67	Sure, I'm not harnessed in that entry date, precisely because of my enthusiasm for this. In socialist terms, let a thousand flowers bloom. So I'm not on that date. The sooner the better and the more the better. It is said that the test gardens run for two years. Is it then the Minister's intention to stop the pilots after that? As far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't be so armed. In long-term care, we have had the experiment of low-level institutions. I remember having debates on this with Mrs Voortman. The sectors are not one-on-one comparable, but there are the same dilemmas. That experiment has been extremely successful and, at the request of the Chamber, it has been renewed several times. I would say: let us sit in these test gardens in the same way. As I have read, the Innovation and Quality Childcare Act, one of the two legislative proposals, has no evaluation clause. I'd like that one in. If it's all right, there's an amendment somewhere in the Wi-Fi about that. As far as I am concerned, it would be a good thing to do so after four years, so that you can also include the results of the pilots, those test areas, in the evaluation. If good things come out of there, you can take them quickly in a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u68	That amendment's floating around?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u69	I don't have my phone here, so I can't read an e-mail, but if it's okay, someone pressed "send."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u70	At some point, I hope we get the paper version.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u71	I'm sure you will. We're gonna make sure of that. I'll come to a conclusion. We support the line taken by these legislative proposals, but we are looking very closely at the further impact. What's it gonna mean in practice? I think it would be good if we could get a clear idea of the planning of all this lower regulation. Mrs Yücel spoke about this. We said this week at the procedural meeting that it would be a good idea for the committee to hold a general discussion on this matter. Indeed, it is lower regulation that is going to get about the size of legislation. I believe that Mr Ulenbelt also hinted at that. These aren't small packages. I think we all want to know for sure that the intention of the law will become reality in the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. Let me immediately drop into the house with the door, cut the knot or catch the cow by the horns. These two legislative proposals cannot count on sympathy from the Party for Freedom. In our view, those who are in favour of the freedom of people cannot accept that the government should be given such a role in the education of children as is threatened by these laws. The three sayings I mentioned just now, I did not learn at pre-school care, where a state curriculum has been carefully burned in my delicate dreumesbrain by a personal mentor, through aligned foundations and with educational purposes in a socially safe environment, gelarded with social and personal competences. I can see everyone looking a little weird right now, but this is all in the pieces we got about the legislative proposals. I just learned those sayings at school. Yet all these things are in the law. With this I just sketched the dream image of progressive Netherlands, which wants to get an iron grip on the brain of small children. My own language skills, like those of my environment, my social competences and social actions, have been acquired in my home, in the street, in the sports club and in the church. I learned in all these places how it was supposed to be and how it didn't belong. I also learned to examine everything and to preserve the good. Especially that last Christian value, I always find beautiful. As far as we are concerned, these two legislative proposals are aimed at ultimately denying children the examination of everything and at learning the good that the state has approved. Another Western value destroyed, if we're not careful. Imagine someone coming to the door and saying, hello, I'm from the government and I'm here to raise your child. It gives me chills. These legislative proposals are exactly what Ronald Reagan used to warn you about: hello, I'm from the government and I'm here to help you. I see this bill in an educational sense... and I see a lot of people coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yeah, me too. I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning: I know that it is election time and I think a debate is fine, but I would like to be brief and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u74	I felt a cuckoo when I heard Mr De Graaf talking, but still two things. One. The use of childcare was, is and remains voluntary. Would Mr De Graaf perhaps confirm that? After all, you could get another bet. Two. If I go through with his argument, he obviously wants to abolish compulsory schooling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u75	That's what I expected. This does not make it a duty, but it is indeed voluntary. However, the government's grip on children's education and learning is very much highlighted. I do not think that the government should go down that path, and with that I answer two questions in one or two sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u76	No answer to two questions. The observation is that it is voluntary and is therefore confirmed. The second is that we know compulsory education in the Netherlands, and that is not at all this. Mr De Graaf's argument would also lead to the abolition of this. There is nothing about the content, what you need to learn and how to develop as a child. I am very pleased that we in this country have rules on childcare to ensure quality and safety. I find it rather remarkable that Mr De Graaf has so easily distanced himself from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u77	There are two things that are not right. It's election time, so I'll leave that to Mr Van Weyenberg. The President warned against using electoral rhetoric, but to slander the PVV with the idea that we want to abolish compulsory education is, of course, total quatsch. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u78	No Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u79	Yes, he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u80	After the piece of rhetoric we heard from Mr De Graaf, I asked a question about all his arguments against setting rules to ensure the quality and safety of children. I think that is a very remarkable text, because, first of all, there is no obligation. That was confirmed by Mr De Graaf and that is nice. Secondly, we have a compulsory education for children in the Netherlands. The whole argument of Mr De Graaf gave the impression that the government is not allowed to interfere, so my question is: is he abolishing compulsory schooling? No more and no less. However, Mr De Graaf deals with his own position, but the present legislative proposal has very little to do with his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr Van Weyenberg has now made two similar points in three different ways. He's got two answers, but he's got a third. He also said that we are not in favour of laying down rules on childcare. That too is total quatsch. We think it's settled as it is now, fine. A lot of parents think so, too. The fact that all those organisations that have been put to the table in the polder all walk in the same direction in a polonaise just means that there is no debate anymore. That's a polonaise the same way. Don't say anything false about what the Party wants for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm not saying any falsehoods at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr President, I said this through you to Mr Van Weyenberg. Because that's not so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u84	Okay, but we're gonna talk through the chairman. This whole thing of speaking directly to each other and a little bit of a condescending way isn't gonna happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u85	I am pleased that the PVV also recognises that there is no obligation to send your child to child care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u86	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u87	And that there is no question of strengthening the government's grip on children. I assume that also the VVD, excuses, the PVV recognizes that child care can offer many benefits and that it is good to see how we can put those benefits into practice. That's what this bill does. We look at how the child's development is promoted within child care. There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u88	I refer to the analysis of the professor Fukkink, who is widely known in educational countries. In his meta-analysis of 21 studies between 2000 and 2015, involving 50,000 children, he showed that it doesn't matter at all for math, language and social development. Why would we put an unknown amount in it? There are still so many loose ends to these two laws and there is still so much lower regulation to be done. This isn't a low-level experiment, it's a rule-rich and a control-stimulant experiment. That is why I say, coming back to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, which Mrs Voortman has partly repeated: be careful not to set any more rules than there are already. The government is always inclined to expand and gain more control over the lives of its citizens. That's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u89	I suggest that Mr De Graaf should read Professor Fukkink's reports a little better, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'd like to respond to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u91	Then you'll respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u92	The good thing is that Secretary of State Dekker also read that meta-analysis. Then you can see that on the three topics I mentioned, it doesn't matter. And then Secretary of State Dekker writes in his letter of September or October 2015 that he still sees something different in it. In this respect, Mrs Voortman is going on now, when it clearly states that it does not matter at all for mathematics, language and social emotional development!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u93	And now Mrs. Voortman again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u94	Then you're gonna have to do something else with that money!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u95	I said Mrs. Voortman again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u96	I note that we have a very different reading of Professor Fukkink's reports, but I will leave that aside for a moment. Mr De Graaf also said: childcare is fine. I think so, too. There is also a lot going well, but at the same time we often see enough examples where things are not going well. Then it is only to be praised that a law is being drawn up in consultation with all those involved: the childcare organisations, the people working in childcare, the parents, to see how to make things better together. I do not understand why Mr De Graaf says: that is bad, because then there is no debate. Isn't it a good thing that there's a law that can count on broad support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u97	Wide support among the organisations, but you often see that the organisations go round the table, while the layer below and the customer is not widely heard. That's the hard part about putting the polder over: you're funneling and you're always sitting around the table with the same people. I'll give you a polonaise. That's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u98	I hear a lot of warnings coming along. The government's getting bigger. That's all gonna cost money. There's been a discussion with the wrong people. What is it? Science is proving something. Has Mr De Graaf also read the ESC report? This is an authoritative opinion which involves a great deal of scientific research, including that of Mr Fukkink. It is widely stated that the better and wider the supply of pre-school facilities, the better it is for a child's chances and the better it can contribute to the development of the Netherlands as a whole. I would like to draw Mr De Graaf's attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u100	And my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mrs. Yücel, it's not like that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u102	... which specific...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u103	I'm talking to you! It's not like that. It's not like that. This is gonna be a lot of speeches. An interruption is a short clear question or statement. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u104	I'm gonna do my best. What specific rule, new requirement or quality framework is Mr De Graaf running into?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u105	I have a lot of long questions every time. I am not concerned with a specific rule or a specific frame. There's still a lot to fill in. There is still a very low level of General Management Measures and so on. There will be further consultation between municipalities. There's got to be a tie-up. I just mentioned all that. That's too much to mention. Of course, quality requirements are important, but you can also move forward by aligning everything and imposing even more rules. I merely warn that we should not impose any more rules on a sector that is simply doing well and where you can send your children to day care. We agreed that we should not mention management terms, but the two legislative proposals are full of them, in terms of social and personal competences and so on. I get a little scared when the government gets a hold of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u106	Finally, Mrs Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u107	Can I then say that Mr De Graaf wishes to keep an eye on unnecessary regulation? I think the majority of the Chamber is looking at that very closely. Can I say that Mr De Graaf could possibly agree if the quality of the PVV was improved by the standards of the PVV, with as little regulation as possible, and if it became safer for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u108	I think it is safe in the current situation as well. In my opinion, the PVV has been the group that has obtained a motion requiring employees to consult a vog. That was, I thought, in 2010 or 2011. So we are very much in favour of safety and we are very much in favour of good rules, but we are also in favour of having children in a normal, warm environment. We like that. An environment where mothers who have a dog can also work, without being chased at a cost and having to do all kinds of difficult training. I have actually had quite a bit of my text because of this, so I can make it shorter. I have just said in an interruption what I am about to say, so perhaps it will be a little double-up. I'm sorry about that. We believe that the government should not want to get more and more control. We have just heard in Mrs Voortman's proposals that all children, including those of parents who are not working, should be able to go to pre-school care or crèche from their second year. That's gonna cost you. The taxpayer has to cough up all that. We do not want these opportunities to be opened up so far. If you don't work, you don't need shelter for your kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u109	I want to make one thing right. GroenLinks did not say that children should go to the shelter. We have said that we want to give children the opportunity to do so. That is why we propose free childcare three days a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u110	That's where caterpillar-never-enough indeed begins. The proposal is being made, people are going to use it, and after a few years it becomes self-evident policy that everyone should go there if we give this Chamber, although it will soon be another, its way. I'm warning you about that development. I call it a slippery slope. That's why I'm telling you right now that we shouldn't do this law. I'm just passing a few points in the law. It states that more concrete educational objectives should be included in the legislation in order to provide more guidance to the sector. So here we already see what Fukkink has warned us about. I've already talked about the tie-up and point three. That's fast. I do have a question for the Minister about the training. I read here: 'adapting the foundations for setting quality standards to pre-school education in lower legislation in order to be able to appoint different categories of professional'. What kind of staff does the Minister want? Is the door open to underqualified staff or should there also be staff who do not speak Dutch or therefore fall within the language requirements? What's the deal with that, exactly? We'd like to know. I would like to mention a number of phrases in the proposal that have been noticed. It says that children must be provided with emotional security and that the personal competence, social competence and socialisation of children are promoted by the transfer of generally accepted values and standards. The effects of this are therefore awaiting us. That makes us a little afraid, afraid that the children who are going to end up in this care situation will soon be unable to go to another kind of care than a single child care facility in the evening and weeping at the mother's breast: can I please be a child again, can I just be a child taking toys from other children and sometimes taking the toys from them? Can I just have a sweet mother with a vog who knows from experience how to change a diaper and who knows where danger is imminent? Can I please be a child again of you and Daddy, Mama, instead of a child of the State? In conclusion. This law is meant to bring all the pieces of education to child care anyway. That is why I say that the government's grip on the development of children is indeed strengthened. We believe that at that age the government has nothing to do with the emotional state of children and with toddler competences. This is all about making it work with integration thinking in the background. That all plays a major role. I was talking about the sloping plane. Maybe we'll sing EU songs together in the future, we'll get green pickets and occasionally we'll also make a "buck" to the east. I'm afraid of the content. Let me say again what I said earlier: on the further implementation of the law, only vague commitments are made, there is no clarity in terms of finances, and there is a whole bunch of loose ends. Other speakers have appointed a number of them. We will vote against this law anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about my predecessor's input into the debate. He opposed Mr Fukkink to the consensus in the polder on the future of childcare. That polder would be so terrible, but I think Mr Fukkink has played a leading role in it for years. In addition, Fukkink concludes in the above-mentioned investigation that a number of conclusions cannot be drawn because there are insufficient data available, because insufficient research has been carried out, but that aside. By the way, I could imagine some of the points of criticism of the law, if they were more nuanced. In addition, many of the general points the PVV claims to be against were already included in the OKE Act. Under that law, the PVV would have to withdraw its aid with retroactive effect. We're discussing two legislative proposals at the same time today. One proposal deals with quality requirements in childcare and the other with the harmonisation of requirements and funding between childcare and playground. They are two separate legislative proposals, but, as Mr Van 't Wout pointed out, we discuss them at the same time and that is not common. The two proposals are very closely interlinked. I noticed that I sometimes had doubts when writing my contribution: are I talking about one legislative proposal or the other? I hope that I have structured it somewhat and that the Minister can turn it into chocolate for his answer. It is precisely because the proposals are so intertwined that they are two proposals that I ask him to accept them in his first term. In a written round, the SGP explicitly asked why there is no single legislative proposal. The Minister stated in his reply that they are two separate routes, which can be seen separately. Because the answer was somewhat concise, it raises the question to me and my group: what if one of the two laws is not adopted? Can the Minister comment on the situation that the legislative proposal on quality requirements or the legislative proposal on harmonisation is being rejected? What's the effect in practice if one bill goes through and the other doesn't? I am also asking for this in view of the fact that, for example, the Council of State is more critical of one legislative proposal than of the other. Perhaps the Minister could give some further justification for this, as it was somewhat brief in the written answer to the question of the SGP. Can he also indicate how he sees the two legislative proposals in relation to each other, including in terms of importance? The Council of State, in an opinion on the legislative proposal on harmonization, proposes that it abolishes the preschool playroom. The Minister replied in the negative, but I would ask him to be more specific about this. The context of this bill is that the number of toddler playrooms has already fallen considerably in recent years. Many children's playrooms have already been converted into childcare facilities. I believe that at the moment one in three municipalities no longer has a playroom at all. Nothing for nothing also warns BOinK in her writing this week about the risk that comes from the removal of toddlers' playrooms as a brand. Legally, they no longer have a position, but BOinK warns of the disappearance of toddler playrooms as an image. She is doing so because I was just talking about it in an interruption to Mrs Yücel and there are groups of parents who are resistant to child care and do not want to go there. Don't you run the risk of creating a new form of division, a new, different form of segregation? I believe that the purpose of the bill is precisely to combat segregation. How can you prevent this new form of segregation? If you do not do so, do you not run the risk of creating new facilities at municipal level that will meet a need and a need that the old playgrounds have provided for, but not the new harmonised facilities? Then you have achieved something crazy: you are going to harmonise and then something new arises, because something has been lost in harmonisation. Does the Minister want to reflect on that? In any case, as a CDA, we consider local customization to be important. When you talk about problems of young people, such as language disadvantages and the connection with vve, Rotterdam is really very different from Dongeradeel, for example. Is it not the case, as the VNG states in its letter, that the possibilities for municipalities with these legislative proposals are limited in order to apply local customization with the aim of providing guidance here? If so, how does that relate to the idea of decentralisation? Would the Minister like to go into that again? The toddler's playrooms should increase their quality anyway. This is the result of harmonisation and the present quality requirements. I believe that almost all of the predecessors have spoken about the risk of this happening so quickly. There are still AMvBs and questions about this, there is still a lot to be completed. This amendment will only be published in the course of 2017. For working parents, this calls for both the Quality Act and the Harmonisation Act and the direct funding of the scheme, which will also bring about a change for parents, as well as the aforementioned laws, to be postponed until 2019. Will the Minister respond to this suggestion? There is something to be said for that. When you talk about the accumulation of changes and the speed with which institutions have to change, they are not without risks. For example, children's playrooms, outdoor spaces and outdoor playgrounds, I believe that harmonisation has potentially significant consequences which could lead to problems. I believe that this is a point I have not heard from others about. If this is true, I apologize. Would the Minister like to comment on this point, also given the short timetable? In my opinion, the proposal for a quality regulation also contains a number of good changes, namely those which have been discussed by the field and the Chamber for a very long time. I think the adjustment of the leadership/child ratio for babies is very sensible. A great deal of research has been done, among others by Mr Van IJzendoorn, a scientist who could perhaps have just referred to Mr De Graaf as a critic of a number of things that happen in child care. This scientist did some research on that. I think he is referred to in the note on the basis of the report. This is a good development and I also think that the deletion of the check-off lists is good, to which others have already referred. In fact, I think those three rest periods give more room. Mr Van 't Wout has already indicated that some things may lead to an increase in costs, for example when talking about babies. There are other things that reduce bureaucracy and costs. There is also the question of how the two relate to each other. Mrs Voortman has already mentioned this in detail. How can we weigh that now the necessary needs to be regulated through a General Measure of Governance? I tended to use the abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u112	You just used that abbreviation a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u113	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I know you're in there, and yet I'm doing it. Shouldn't we weigh things up later? Should there be shifts, isn't that a reason to move some things back? With regard to this amendment, the SGP asked why the term "mentor" should not be enshrined in the legislative proposal. This has been done for "pedagogic policy staff," but that mentor is regulated in the General Measure of Management, although it is not nothing. Can the Minister explain again why you need to anchor it legally and why the other can be dealt with by General Measure of Management? After all, a child care mentor is not nothing. Mr Van 't Wout also pointed out that many things are not regulated by law, but that they are regulated accordingly. Isn't there a risk of something coming through the back door that the Chamber will soon say isn't what it wants or that it's something that has effects that it doesn't want to see? What possibility does the Chamber have to take a good look at that? So I am also referring to the effects for providers and parents. How does the Minister see that route from now on and the intended date for its introduction, namely 1 January 2018? I would like to conclude with two points. The first is parental involvement. That is something we have talked about many times in child care. One of the most identified deficiencies is the absence of a parent committee. At the same time, you can see that in the playrooms the parent involvement is very large and very good. Not only is it regulated by participation, but there are often even parents' boards in those preschool playrooms. Now we are going to legally regulate that where parental involvement is very large, there is a need to scale down towards parent committees, while we have been having the debate for years that leaves parental involvement in childcare to be desired. There's no other way? Isn't it strange that, despite harmonisation, in the places where parental involvement is very large, we are going to scale it down legally? At least that is the feeling that my group has. Is it not possible that in those places where there are now parental boards, where there are co-determination councils, there is no need to be scaled down to a parent committee? I'd like to get a reaction to this. My last point has also been discussed extensively by both GroenLinks and D66, and that concerns the position of parent participation crèches. I, too, find it strange that we are finally settling for the existing opc's, but that the crazy situation arises that new parent participation crèches that also meet that quality framework are excluded. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has said that it is impossible to check this in advance at a new childcare facility. However, the quality rules are there as a framework and you must maintain them in practice, if things go wrong. But if you say that new parent participation crèches are excluded, because we do not know in advance whether they are as good as the existing ones, and if you go to regular childcare, there could be no new childcare at all. So I do not think that this is a very strong argument against Mr Van Weyenberg's statement in a motion which I, like the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, would like to sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr Heerma knows that we are struggling with this dossier and that we are seeing how it can be done. I'd just like to point out the exact point, without being able to indicate the outcome of my final weighing. It is in the fact that opc's, parent participation crèches, do not have to meet the fixed-face criterion. The current parent participation crèches have been examined to see if there is sufficient educational quality to compensate for this disadvantage. My quest is how we can make an assessment that compensation for future crèches will also be sufficient. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u115	I know that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is also looking for this dossier. I am glad that we can open the debate with each other in this way. I hope we can convince her in this discussion. The discussion was always about two things, the fixed face rule and the training requirements. We have had many years of discussion about this, and also about a tolerated situation, which has been automatically extended or abolished. Extensive research has been carried out, in my view, in this case by Mr Fukkink, who has already visited the debate on several occasions, and the result is that the quality is good, but in an alternative way. This alternative means lower costs, so it is justified to say that there is a lower ceiling for the childcare allowance. I think that's a good outcome. This means, however, that there is an alternative quality framework, which still ensures good quality, despite the fact that this one rule is being dealt with in an alternative way. They are not fixed faces, but they are their own parents. If we find that existing parent participation crèches meet the quality framework, it is strange to say in advance that new initiatives should not be allowed, even from the point of view of justice and legality. That won't be dozens, let's face it. We are talking about a number of unique amenities, a limited number. I think there are initiatives in one or two places in the Netherlands to create one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u116	We will certainly consider all the arguments put forward here in order to reach a final verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u117	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr Heerma, like myself, can confirm that the role of the GGD can also be played in advance in the event of a new opc. The frameworks are different, apart from the two points that Mr Heerma has just mentioned, but it is not like 'you are opening up and we will see'. The ex ante review is different, but it is still present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u120	I am pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg is giving me the opportunity to correct my omission in the reply. What Mr Van Weyenberg is saying is correct. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. It's a little under pressure. At the beginning of the suspension, I'd like to have a word with the spokesmen. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.25 p.m. to allow the Minister to prepare his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman. Dutch children are the happiest children on earth. According to a UNICEF report, the Netherlands is in the top five areas of material wealth, health, safety, education, behaviour, risks, housing and living environment. Let us remember how special it is that we are all able to offer this to our children. That's something to cherish and perpetuate. Child care plays an important role in this process, as child care is also aimed at ensuring a safe and secure environment for children. Good childcare is essential because these children have a familiar environment where they can develop. At the same time, good childcare makes it possible for parents to work carelessly. Childcare is good if quality is provided and if reception is accessible. The laws on the agenda today contribute to improving quality and improving the financial accessibility of childcare. This is important for the further development of children, increasing the employment rate and the future of this sector. I am glad that we can discuss both legislative proposals today. I would like to thank all the parties involved in the sector very much for the drafting of these legislative proposals. The Innovation and Quality Childcare Bill focuses on raising quality: increasing the focus on babies and on the development of children and on an equal quality level for toddlers in childcare and in toddlers' playroom work. The Harmonisation of Childcare and Preschool Work Bill ensures equal financial access to childcare and toddler playroom work for working parents. The laws are closely linked for the toddlers. The IKK Act lays down, inter alia, that the same requirements apply to all young children and the Harmonisation Act regulates funding. Attention is paid to the professionalism, skills and development opportunities of teaching staff. They ultimately ensure the quality of care. They are the specialists we must cherish and establish. I am proud of what we have put down in the area of childcare in recent years. There is still plenty to do, but I am sure that with these two legislative proposals we are taking a step towards further professionalisation and better quality. That ambition is shared. Last year, we concluded and signed the agreement on innovation and quality in childcare with about everything and everyone: all representatives of employers, workers, industry and parents in childcare. It is unique that that has been successful; that did not look like it for a long time. The agreement contains measures and activities that improve quality. An important part has now come back to this law. The IKK Act actually lays a foundation for what is to be done in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u123	"IKK" stands for "innovation and quality childcare." I don't think everyone in the public gallery knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u124	Innovation and quality childcare, IKK. If I repeat it every time, I get turned upside down, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u125	You don't have to, but you do once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you very much. Innovation and quality childcare; these are all things we like to see. Several members of the House pointed out that the implementation of the measures was also subject to lower regulation. At the moment I am working with the sector parties to prepare the IKK Decision on innovation and quality childcare services. It sets out the quality requirements for childcare in line with the agreement. The decision will be before the Chamber. The planned planning is in March this year, so in a few weeks. I will briefly address three points of the bill. Then I will go into all the questions very staccato, because I understand that there is more on the agenda for these last Chamber days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yeah, but you shouldn't feel reluctant about anything. We're just gonna do the law nicely, but if we can do it compactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u128	That's right. The first important point is the development of children. I think it is very important that we pay more attention to that aspect of childcare. The educational objectives are enshrined in the law. These objectives are widely supported by the sector and guide what happens every day in reception. The educational objectives are set out in the IKK Decision. The focus on babies is also further developed. The professional-child ratio of one professional in four babies is tightened up to a ratio of one professional in three babies. I very much agree with the image Mr Van 't Wout sketched. The first moment of handing over a often still young baby and its vulnerability require more guidance for the very younger children, which we now lay down in the law. Later, when the children are 3.5 years old, the children are eager to go to school; then the crèche becomes boring. Maybe there's still a moment of homesickness with Mr. Van 't Wout's daughter, but there's also a moment when children are craving the big school. Then there can be a more limited professional-child ratio. The teaching assistant plays a decisive role in the development of children. Childcare is really a profession. This also translates into more training of employees and coaching by HBO-educated pedagogues, the so-called pedagogical policy staff. This gives the employees the opportunity to develop in their profession. The harmonization of quality requirements is a further point. All toddlers are entitled to a comparable quality, whether they go to child care or to the preschool playroom. There are effects on the costs for entrepreneurs and for parents. Overall, quality improvement means an increase in the cost of day care and a reduction in the cost of the bso. To ensure accessibility, I adjust the maximum hourly rate for the surcharge. As a result, entrepreneurs and parents are able to bear the costs. The adjustment of the hourly rate is regulated by an amendment to the Decision on childcare allowance 2018, which will be ready this autumn. In order to ensure good access for parents, the childcare allowance has been structurally increased in 2016 and from this year onwards. The choices made by parents in the care of their child, between childcare or playroom should not be a financial consideration. It must be a consideration based on the needs of the child and on the combination of work and care that parents themselves have in mind. Now working parents can only apply for childcare allowance for day care. In the government agreement and in the administrative agreement with the VNG, it was agreed that working parents would also be entitled to allowances for care in the playroom. Working parents also receive childcare allowance for the use of the playroom from the intended date of entry into force. The short-term offer remains, even after harmonisation. However, this will no longer take place in a children's playroom, but in a children's center. I realize that this was a brief introductory speech. In fact, detailed questions have been asked on all these points. I'm gonna try to answer these completely now. GroenLinks asks why the cabinet is not yet taking the step towards a broad general basic provision. I think it is important for young children in particular to be able to develop and for parents to be able to combine work and care. Both legislative proposals and administrative agreements contribute to both objectives. As a result, working parents can apply for a child care allowance and at the same time all toddlers can rely on a pre-school provision. A step towards a further integrated pre-school system is a major high-cost intervention, while this bill and the administrative agreement with VNG already enable all children to be reached with an offer of pre-school facilities. Any further step will require further decision-making and will be for the next cabinet. However, I am very pleased with what we are now making possible. I'm so proud of it. Mrs Yücel asked, on behalf of the PvdA, whether municipalities would take into account the market and competition between large and small providers, childcare facilities and playgrounds. Municipalities remain responsible for financing an offer of pre-school facilities for children of non-working parents and single-earners. Municipalities are free to decide how they do it. The way in which the municipality organises the offer depends on the local situation and the policy wishes of the municipality. Municipalities must take account of applicable law, including procurement and state aid law. Social Work The Netherlands will pay extra attention to these issues in the support process. Mrs Voortman asked whether it was true that municipalities could be affected by the rules on state aid and market forces. The fact remains that the municipalities themselves can choose, but they must of course comply with the law in force. Some municipalities have to adapt their working methods. That is why Social Work Netherlands will consider whether it can be of additional help. Mrs. Yücel asked if I would be willing to monitor the procurement of places in the near future. I will monitor to what extent toddlers are actually reached with the additional resources that have been provided to the municipalities. I'll put on a monitor for that. That does not provide a complete monitor of everything that municipalities do with young children. That is not feasible either. But precisely in view of the question of what happens with the extra resources I will therefore set up a monitor. Mrs Yücel also asked if we would continue to look at effects on segregation and division. Combating segregation is not a specific objective of this bill. The aim is to ensure equal access. However, I think it is very important that all children have access to a pre-school facility. That's why I'm setting up a monitor with VNG right now to map the range. Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66, raised the question of how to prevent the segregation from being increased. So the first question was whether you can monitor to what extent this reduces segregation, and this second question is about how to prevent that segregation from being increased. In my view, parents should not be financially steered in their choice, but should base their choice on the interests of the child and on their own need to combine labour and care. The legislative amendment provides a single quality framework. In municipalities where harmonisation has already been achieved, these municipalities continue to subsidise places at daycare centres where children of working parents also go. It is therefore still possible for children from working and non-working parents to go to the same children's center. That's why I don't expect the bill to increase segregation. This harmonisation has already taken place in more and more places and municipalities find their way. That is not all in the same way, but the effect is that children continue to go to care together. Then I come to the point of short-term care. Mrs Yücel of the Labour Party asked how much parents need to use short-term care and how many working parents are expected to benefit from the right to childcare allowance. We have no record of the amount of the short-term offer. Peuters can also take advantage of the short-term offer at daycare. However, I do know that in 2016, 73,000 toddlers used the toddler's playroom work. In the meantime, this number is lower, because the transformation trend that has been going on for a long time has continued in 2016. 170,000 toddlers are present in day care and that number is increasing. About half of the parents using the children's playroom are entitled to child care allowance. So these parents can start applying later. I have also been asked to what extent I think childcare sites will take over the short-term provision of care. In the process of transformation, children's playrooms can continue independently, but they can also go hand in hand with a childcare organisation. Today's children's centers can also offer a short-term offer, but this is taken care of by the children's center instead of the old situation. I can't predict it, but I suspect that will happen in the future. There is a demand for this, and this will therefore be addressed. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks asked whether it was being examined whether the toddler's playrooms that have been transformed would meet the quality requirements and whether the Chamber would be informed. Toddler playrooms are inspected annually by the GGD and must meet the quality requirements for toddler playrooms. That is why they already meet most of the quality requirements for children's centres. Soon they will have to meet a number of additional quality requirements, for example with regard to the outdoor and indoor spaces and the non-formative deployment of volunteers. On the date of entry into force of this bill, the remaining children's playrooms will automatically be converted to children's centres. During the period prior to that conversion, the GGD can already map out the extent to which such a toddler's playroom is already adequate during a visit. The preschool playrooms that do not yet meet the requirements know what they still have to work on. Following the transposition, the supervisor will examine during the annual inspection whether the converted playrooms meet the statutory quality requirements. The preschool playrooms which did not yet meet the requirements for automatic conversion can be first inspected by the GGD after entry into force. Working arrangements are made between DUO, VNG and GGD GHOR Nederland to ensure that the automatic conversion is smooth. The GGD therefore assesses the quality requirements at least annually. In addition, the Education Inspectorate provides second-line supervision. I do not intend to set up a separate monitor in addition to that monitoring to check whether all the playrooms meet the requirements. On this point, we simply need to let the existing monitoring system do its job. The CDA asks, through Mr Heerma, whether I can support the fact that the children's playrooms are not being abolished, as a result of BOinK's warning. Mr Heerma said that some people do not want to take their children to the shelter and wondered if this could lead to new segregation. This question is in line with previous questions. The term "peuter's playroom" disappears from the law. That doesn't mean that all preschool playrooms are closed or that there's no short-term offer anymore. In practice, you can see that more and more municipalities are already transforming playroom work. Research shows that most of the municipalities in which toddlers have been transformed have a short-term grant scheme for children of non-working parents and sole earners. A question has been asked about new types of facilities at municipal level. All pre-school facilities will be subject to the same quality requirements. I think this is a nice idea for parents. With the VNG, I agreed that all toddlers should receive an accessible offer. Parents are free to choose whether they want to make use of such a facility, I say to Mr De Graaf, who has nightmares about what can happen to our children. However, a lot of parents are very happy about it. I told you, we're making a monitor to see how that extra range is realized. Mr Heerma also asked about the relationship between this bill and the idea of decentralization. Municipalities remain responsible for financing the supply to children of non-working parents and sole earners. That's a conscious choice. I have also worked at a municipality to shape their own policies and to keep up with the things that have been successfully developed, without any quality differences between the playroom and the childcare centre. Municipalities also carry out the legal task of offering toddlers with a risk of disadvantage through the vve. The municipality thus has different tasks and thus maintains control over the entire pre-school system, for example through the Local Education Agenda. LEA is the abbreviation of this. Two more abbreviations and the public gallery is completely empty, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u129	I don't think so. I know politicians. By the way, BOinK stands for: Association of Interests of Parents in the Childcare & Toddler's Playrooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u130	Beautiful. Mrs Yücel asked about the communication between parents and Social Work Netherlands in the conversion of support. We support entrepreneurs, employees and parents in these legislative proposals. This is done by providing information, via a website, but also through small-scale regional meetings. I expect that site will be available in the second quarter of this year. Social Work The Netherlands is also implementing a process of support for harmonisation for children's playrooms and municipalities. Working parents are informed about the change in good consultation with the Tax Administration. What bottlenecks has Social Work Netherlands encountered so far? How do we deal with that? I sent a letter about it last week. In many places it has been successfully harmonised. The preliminary figures show that 60% of all municipalities have been transformed in whole or in part and that all other municipalities have plans for transformation. If a municipality has been transformed, this does not mean that there is no longer an offer for toddlers, on the contrary, in almost all municipalities there has been a municipal scheme for householders and non-working parents. Working parents can apply for child care allowance. There are, of course, points of interest. It has just been mentioned: how do you deal with the rules on state aid and procurement law? There may also be transition costs for municipalities and playgrounds. These are the costs incurred in the transition to a new situation. The children's playroom work is different in every municipality. That is also good, but that means that we have to consult each other in this transformation to see how you do it best. The situation varies from one municipality to another, and this is ideally customised locally. The municipalities have no information about parents receiving childcare allowance. Some municipalities ask parents to do this. I understand that this is a lot of work and I want to see how we can facilitate that process. I'm open to suggestions. I'm going to look at all the advantages and disadvantages of the solutions that have already been devised. Mr Ulenbelt asked on behalf of the SP whether the 60 million could be used to secure access for all in 2021. Yes, in 2015 there were about 40,000 toddlers who did not go to a pre-school facility. That is why we have agreed with the VNG that municipalities also provide parents of toddlers who do not yet go to pre-school facilities with financial access for participation in pre-school facilities. For municipalities, it's quite a job to reach those 40,000 children. That is why time has been allocated. That is why the choice has been made to grant these funds step-by-step. Municipalities simply state that they cannot reach all these children at once. So even if we were to transfer that money, she wouldn't be able to. In recent years, the municipalities have been able to create offers for non-working parents, but the art is now to reach the entire group. We made that agreement with this phaser, especially in consultation with the UNG. D66 expresses concern as to whether enough people can be found now that this section of the labour market is getting cramped. This is one of the topics I have discussed extensively with the sector parties. Pedagogical policy officer is a new function for which the quality requirements have yet to be determined. I would therefore like to give more time to the organisations for the introduction of the requirements of pedagogical policy staff. The proposal is that it should enter into force on 1 January 2019. It's a job, all right. At the same time, I believe that it is an essential element to ensure that the quality of all employees is further improved in that area of the educational environment. D66 also asks how we're gonna coach it and guarantee the educational goals. Concrete educational goals are anchored in a General Measure of Management and the same applies to the requirements of coaching. The supervisor will then ensure that organisations also implement this. A number of mandatory elements for the educational policy plan will be identified in the AMvB. It has been discussed with sectoral parties for which elements this is desirable and for which elements it is not. It concerns, for example, the organisation's further implementation of the educational objectives. The educational policy plan should not be just a paper tiger. Quite the contrary. There's plenty of paper tigers in day care. We want it to have meaning in practice. This is why it also includes the need for organisations to ensure that in practice they work in accordance with the educational policy plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u131	That last answer is nice. It is now a matter of the previous point. If I understand correctly, the rules now state that such an HBO-educated policy officer also counts in the presence of the groups. My concern is how to prevent someone who de facto does this very important work from coming to coaching. Do I understand correctly that the Minister in the AMvB will specify that we will prevent that? It's nice that we put an HBO on a group, but it's just the broader look we're looking for. By the way, I am waiting with this answer in my hand for that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think Mr Van Weyenberg understood me very well. It is precisely by checking whether it is being applied that you prevent it from being just an expensive, better trained professional who does exactly the same work. You want to achieve that added value. At the same time, I think we also agree that this added value can best be created if you work together and sit on the group. If you look at the educational environment not only but also actually improve it, then a process can arise in which colleagues improve each other. That will have to be shaped in that AMvB but more than that it will have to be created in practice, so that you can see in the supervision that it is not a paper tiger but that something is actually happening in relation to the group. So it has been considered and I understand the question. Mr Van Weyenberg had indeed understood the answer. D66 has further asked if we keep our finger on the pulse with the new professional-child ratio, the bkr. Of course that is the case. I will also monitor how the new professional-child ratio works in practice. In addition, we have agreed to investigate the cost of childcare. GroenLinks asks if these are the right indicators for quality. The Gunning Committee's recommendation was to strengthen care for the development of children. Is the development of every child well monitored? The quality requirements have been carefully considered, with a lot of parties. A lot of scientists have also been spoken to. Part of this is that every child is given a mentor who becomes the point of contact of parents and who closely follows the development of the children. I think this is a very nice translation of this idea into the Gunning report, although it had not been further developed, except that it contained the message: put the child's development first. The design is now a step further in good consultation with science and practice. I have high expectations of what that will yield. GroenLinks further indicates that child care is becoming more expensive. How is that to be paid? It is true that this form of childcare is becoming more expensive. The tightening of the professional-child ratio of one teacher on four babies goes to one in three. This leads to higher costs for organizations. That's obvious. For this reason, the maximum hourly price is increased. Although this increase has an effect on the lowest incomes, it is extremely low, since they are reimbursed for 94% of the cost of the maximum hourly price. The PvdA asks for the quality requirements to be defined by subject at what level that is enshrined in the regulation. The qualification requirements for professionals and pedagogical policy staff are regulated. These include general training requirements, language requirements and specific training for professionals working in baby groups. All other quality requirements are laid down in an AMvB. I aim to put it in this Chamber and the First Chamber in March. We're gonna keep up the pace. The PVV asks which staff we want to know about the legal basis for setting training requirements for professionals. The commitment to childcare and toddler playroom work is a better function mix. I am committed to this by making demands on the use of pedagogical policy staff. They can work on the educational policy and coaching of professionals in childcare. This is still independent of the legal basis for setting training requirements for professionals. This concerns the intentions of the State Secretary of OCW. He's taking care of those modifications. Basically, it's a subject where the demands are getting higher and higher. I think that's right, too. I think it is very important that when parents choose to entrust their children to these employees, the quality requirements are clearly defined. I hope that the PVV will see in the second term that it is good proposals and that the caricature that was made in the first period of time has no relationship with the facts. The CDA asks whether this potential does not have a major impact on the harmonisation of outer space, especially given the short timeframe. Do we not get the organisations in trouble? There are currently no requirements for outdoor playrooms at toddler playrooms. Soon they'll have to meet the requirements. I see in many municipalities that this is working very well in practice. A support path was launched in 2015 to achieve this transposition. This is necessary because there is sometimes a lack of clarity about the interpretation of the rules. I will discuss with the interested parties in the sector whether we can make further improvements in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thanks for the answer. The interior space is relatively often easy to do, but for the outdoor space it is much more difficult. It is very good that the Minister is looking at this, but can there not be any bottlenecks? Isn't the timeline potentially a big problem? What does the Minister do if it turns out that it is not well organised in several places?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u134	I do not have that expectation, but I cannot guarantee that no problem will arise anywhere. On the other hand, the bill does not fall out of the sky. Harmonisation has been going on for years. In practice, you can see that it always works. We still have a lot of time. If we can help, support and clarify the rules, then we are ready to do so. I don't think it's stuck in a couple of months. You have to do that conversion, and that means there's got to be a suitable outdoor space. I think this is a very sensible demand for these young children. You're gonna have to live up to it one day, and it's gonna take a conversion. I cannot guarantee that there will be no problem anywhere, but I do not think it is purely in the period that has now been set.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u135	Will the Minister be speaking separately about the consequences of harmonising parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u137	I believe that the deadlines are linked. When the Minister comes to speak separately, I will come back to that point. I think things are going to play in combination with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u138	You have a good point. I will go into it a little more precisely, but where funding is changing and the law is already being introduced, I cannot deny that Mr Heerma has a point to make. I come to the questions of the PVV. Kids aren't supposed to be kids anymore. In fact, that must always be at the forefront. With regard to the transfer of values and standards, it is important that children become acquainted with generally accepted values, for example, that you should not bully each other and that you should not beat each other. Kids need to learn how to share. These first two objectives will be endorsed by the PVV; as far as the third objective is concerned, I will wait a little longer. Those are the values and values that are at stake. It's not about green pricks or all kinds of other political stuff. It's about young children. They learn to play together. They teach you not to bully each other. That is exactly what we want. Childcare isn't where you hang your coat or where you steal your child. They sit there with other children and with motivated and competent staff, often leaders, with the intention of having a good time there. I've been a great user. Like the children of Mr Van 't Wout, all my children are now basic scholars, but I am very excited about it, also about the fact that they learn how to be in a group. D66 asked about the financial consequences for parents, children's playrooms and daycare centres, and about the regulatory burden. As far as the parents are concerned, I've already indicated what I'm doing. I'll mention the maximum hourly rates. The Chamber has been informed of this, so I think I will leave it at that. Preschool playrooms must meet all legal quality requirements. municipalities have sufficient resources to cope with the increase in quality. The Empire takes over more costs from municipalities than funds are raised from the Municipal Fund. That always helps to create such a deal. I would like to stress that it is already possible in many places. In spring 2014, there were still 3,000 locations, but in the meantime there are 1,600. There's guidance. With regard to part C, the impact on the costs for organisations, I say yes, but that is why there is catch-up indexing. That is something that Mr Van Weyenberg and I were both very excited about. On balance, the next development is taking place. The maximum hourly price increases in 2017 and 2018. The maximum hourly rate for extracurricular care stays broadly the same in 2018, after a small temporary increase this year. What does it mean for the regulatory burden? There is a distinction between line pressure that you can express in money and the experienced rule pressure. As regards the first, most of the quality requirements are regulated by lower regulation. The consequences will always be included. The AMvB will be coming to the Chamber in the coming month by means of the suspension procedure. The package of measures is in balance with regard to regulatory pressure. In doing so, it helps that the sector has been watching, in the vein of: how can you make it workable and how can you do it in a pleasant way? We expect the increase in quality to increase the regulatory burden by EUR 13.8 million, but because the organisation no longer needs to make an annual risk inventory, we save EUR 13.3 million. On balance, you will have an increase in regulatory pressure of 0.5 million euros. I consider this proportional for a sector that is large and where 100,000 children receive care that improves in quality. Research shows that entrepreneurs experience regulatory pressure due to lack of clarity or limited possibilities for customization. This legislative proposal amends the quality requirements so that rules become clearer. I refer to the pedagogical objective of making more room for customisation, e.g. by removing the risk inventories. In other words, not only the measurable control pressure, but also the experienced control pressure. What is expected of me, why can't I come up with a solution that fits what I do? The amount of the aid shall be reduced by the amount of Then Mr. Van 't Wout asked about the company impact test. We have taken into account the impact of the measures on companies in advance, and that has led to the agreement being endorsed by all parties, including the entrepreneurs. By adjusting the maximum hourly price, we enable entrepreneurs to bear the consequences. I don't think it's a good idea to double up on that analysis. We're monitoring it by investigating the cost. Depending on the outcome, you can then adjust if it turns out that the companies are being chased at a cost. Before that, that's not the statue. It is also tested in the lower regulations, entrepreneurs agree, they are compensated for the costs and then we will see if the cost still meets. If there were to be a problem, that would be the time to adjust. We don't have to do another test, because that would only result in additional control pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u139	I am not, of course, concerned with the means of such an impact test. I try to write along when we are going to see which AMvBs, but we want to see very sharp per draft of the law, both in the individual proposals that are still coming, and added together, what it means for companies, and ultimately especially for parents. The explanatory statement rightly states that there will be a cost-benefit analysis. As a Chamber, we have to weigh it up, and I want to make it on the basis of as complete information as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u140	I think that is perfectly right. It has a long history. In my view, a motion by Mrs Van Tellegen asks to look at the regulatory burden in childcare as a result of the instrument we have developed. The bill IKK was first called The New Supervision, and one of the goals of the new supervision is, in addition to the quality increase, to stop making senseless ticks; stop measuring things that do not add to what is really important in child care. I think we're pulling the same rope here on the same side. This also means that the Court must be able to assess whether the balance sheet is still in the lower legislation. What I just outlined are the contours of how we prevent it from leading to additional rules or unforeseen consequences. The lower regulations come in front of us. Already in March the AMvB comes to the Chamber. Based on those pieces, you can see if that balance is still in there. On top of that, a cost study is carried out, because you can then determine whether anything changes under the radar, in the underwater shield, so that something goes wrong with the cost to the companies. This may indicate that a rule does not work properly or gives a lot of organisational burdens. The Labour Party asked whether turnover affects the access of non-working parents. The municipalities remain responsible. Most municipalities make an arrangement, receive extra money for it and have agreed on it. Is it a matter of euros, tens or hundreds of euros? Outside the municipality of Amsterdam, almost all children's playrooms ask for their own contribution. Childcare allowance is income-dependent. This means that the income effect varies from family to family. The effect is also dependent on the hourly price and the number of hours that are reduced. The lowest incomes receive 94% surcharge and therefore only have to pay 6%. For the highest incomes, that is 33.3%. In other words, it's not entirely clear, but outside the municipality of Amsterdam, unless they continue to grant so much subsidy that it remains free for cost winners, the differences are clear. D66 asked about these large sums of money relating to unfairly applying for childcare allowance. What are we going to do with the Secretary of State for Finance to prevent this from happening? Working parents can apply for child care allowance after harmonisation, a non-working parent can go to the municipality. Of course, it is possible to try to apply for a child care allowance by mistake, and that is why every parent has to answer a number of questions when applying for a child care allowance. It soon becomes clear whether you are entitled to child care allowance. Hence my words 'as many wrong applications as possible'. One of these questions concerns the number of hours the partner works. The chance that you fill that out while one of them works and that there will be an extra charge is zero. Nevertheless, things can always go wrong. We will pay attention in communication to how working parents who are eligible can apply for the supplement. Consideration will also be given to the main criteria applicable to the supplement. I intend to further reduce the problem of higher recovery. During the direct funding bill being prepared, DUO will use different basic registrations to check in advance whether there is a right to childcare allowance. That bill is not being discussed here, but the problem is well known and it can lead to parents being confronted with very high amounts of recovery. How are we going to prevent contracts that go beyond the provision of short-term care? That's what the Labour Party asked. Why was it not chosen to limit the right to childcare allowance to the number of hours that stand for short-term care per week, for example two days or the number of hours that decreased in 2017? I understand the concern of the PvdA at that point. I have just stressed a few times that in consultation with the field I also actively communicate about the change. There will be a website to inform entrepreneurs, professionals and parents about the consequences of the legislative proposals, including the agreement that parents should conclude with the children's centre. I don't think it's a good idea to legally limit the number of hours. I don't want to limit parents' freedom of choice. This also applies to the possibility that working parents may take more hours if they so wish. That can best occur in practice. Why does there have to be a contract at all? Children's playrooms are transformed into children's centres and, under the Childcare Act, the agreements on childcare to be taken up must be laid down in a contract. In the interests of parents as well as the institution, it is a good idea to make agreements in writing in an agreement. GroenLinks asks how we monitor the use of childcare. I'm getting monthly numbers from the IRS on the use of childcare. I believe that these figures are also given to the Chamber on a quarterly basis. The VVD asks if we will continue to talk to individual parents and individual organisations. Oh, yeah. That remains of the utmost importance. Mr Heerma of the CDA asked whether there could be no perverse effect because the parent involvement could go down, because we go to committees instead of a parent administration like some playrooms have. Through the Parents' Committee, parents have a say in quality and safety. The Parents' Committee has a legal right to advise the holder on a number of subjects listed in the law. For January, subsidised preschool playrooms didn't have to have that. They could arrange it in all kinds of other ways, but now they are obliged to set it up. In any case, for children's playrooms where there was no parenting and where there was no such thing, this is an improvement. An alternative form of parental consultation can also be used, but only if there are no more than 50 children and the holder has been shown to be committed. Can't we have a scaling-down? I do not think so, because where your parents look at their administrative tasks, it is also good for those parents to professionalise there as much as possible, which is the result of harmonisation. On the other hand, if you look at the substantive involvement, it will be formalized. This does not therefore have to lead to a restriction or a reduction. In my view, it is an overall improvement in parental involvement, because it is mandatory everywhere, with the exception of the alternative content that is possible for smaller rooms. The loss of part of the voluntary board does not have to be at the expense of the substantive involvement of parents in the quality of the offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u141	In particular, I must chew on the first part of the Minister's reply, because it focuses on children's playrooms where there would be no parent involvement and where a parent committee has added value. But for the rest, in his answer, he mainly deals with parental management. In many children's playrooms you have a parenting board, but also a participation council. Legally, I think they'll both disappear. You don't have a parenting board, but you don't have a participation board anymore. You'll get a parenting commission in return. I do not quite understand how the Minister can say that this is not a write-down, given all the problems that have been identified in relation to parental involvement in childcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u142	Again, I cannot guarantee that it will not lead to a reduction anywhere. If you just look at the practice, it is very good that we are now choosing a compulsory parenting committee. It is not at all said that a transformation means that you suddenly stop with an existing structure in which parents are strongly involved. Nothing stands in the way of maintaining parent involvement, nor in any other way. That parenting committee is a minimum, not a maximum. It's not like parents can't talk about what's going on at the children's center. The legal requirements only harmonise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u143	Does this also indicate that a co-determination council can continue to exist on top of a parent committee, as an alternative way of parental consultation? Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u144	No, that alternative parental consultation can only be done under certain circumstances. The way in which this is implemented is also bound by rules. Whether or not a participation council can exist in addition to all the existing one, I am going to verify it. I think so, but I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u145	And Mr Heerma is going to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u146	No doubt. The VVD informs about the difference in supervision and enforcement between municipalities. Should these differences not be further eliminated, so that the rules are applied in the same way? The national quality standards are the same everywhere, but we see strong differences between the institutions. The supervisor must assess whether the requirements are met. This can therefore lead to different judgments. In itself, that makes sense. The supervisor sees that one is doing well and the other is doing badly. It may also be possible for supervisors to make a different assessment in similar situations. I believe that this should be avoided as much as possible. So I agree with the VVD on that. I am therefore in favour of a lot of intervision and cooperation, including across municipal, GGD and regional boundaries. I am in favour of looking at each other in the kitchen to see how one is dealing with a particular situation and to arrive at a comparable judgment. This is being worked on in the project Het Nieuwe Overzicht. One of the topics in there is dome surveillance, for which GGD GHOR Netherlands prepares a pilot, so a test garden. In itself, the requirements have already been harmonised. The way in which supervision is organised is also the same everywhere. However, differences may arise in similar situations. It is best to take it away by looking very explicitly at it, talking about it and ensuring that one looks together in the kitchen, unless it is such a big difference that it appears from the second-line surveillance. Then you can intervene immediately. Before you get there, you prefer uniform monitoring of similar situations. I agree with the VVD on that. That is what we are promoting through the pilot of GGD GHOR Netherlands. The Labour Party asks about the monitoring framework of the inspection. Work is currently under way to adapt this framework to the new requirements. The plan is that it will be ready for the second half of this year. All supervisors will then be ready to supervise when the new requirements are met. Funds have also been made available to the GGD to further support the professionalisation of supervision. It also requires something from the regulators if they are to stop ticking, but look at the way in which the new requirements are put into practice. They must be able to do so. Therefore, supervisors are trained and new methods are tested and tried out. Examples of these trainings are Convincing Communicating and masterclasses Watching the teaching practice. It is also a profession to draw good conclusions about educational quality from the observation of a group and to be able to criticize it with which one can do something, so that quality can be improved. In the report of the Gunning Committee, the Amsterdam vice case has obviously had a huge impact on the safety and quality of child care thinking. Mr. Van 't Wout was in the city council and I was alderman when that case occurred in Amsterdam. It has made a deep impression on all those who had to deal with it at that time, because of the extreme uncertainty, the horrible crimes and the shock for the confidence that parents should be able to have in turning in their most precious and precious goods, namely their children, at shelters. The innocence was gone. That is why it is perfectly understandable that several Members of Parliament have expressed their disgust at new incidents, which are different from what they were at the time, but which certainly put confidence to the test. I'm not going into those cases because they're investigating. Let me say that I am very motivated on this point. From my role here, I have really taken steps in recent years to see what we can do to provide as much safety as possible for children. We've introduced the continuous screening system. That's very important. Evaluations also show that it works and has added value. Trust inspectors have been appointed. The four-eye principle has been implemented. Here comes a follow-up in these laws and agreements. Better support and further professionalisation contribute to this, as well as more structural attention to the development of children and focus on safety in practice by further embedding the four-eyed principle in safety policy. D66 asked whether the trust inspector should not be required to inform the supervisor of a notification. There's a classic dilemma there. The trust inspector has a confidentiality obligation. This means that he is obliged to disclose what is entrusted to him in the performance of his duties. I don't think you should break that too lightly. A report may be a signal that there's something wrong with the quality, but it doesn't have to be. If something is wrong, it is important that the supervisor is informed at some point. I will examine, in cooperation with OCW and the Education Inspectorate, whether and how the information sharing between the trust inspector and the supervisor can be further improved, without going into a reporting obligation. You see, also from the past, that it is better to report if you still have a shadow of a signal, while there is a understandable reluctance if a report immediately leads to very serious consequences for those involved. In that balance, I would like to examine with the inspection and OCW whether it can be further improved, without going into a reporting obligation. I would like to touch on Mr Ulenbelt's question on the four-eye principle, should he arise for that reason; I would like to give him the knee exercise in his own right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u147	I didn't argue in favour of letting go of confidentiality at once. I was right about the struggle the minister described. Of course, it's complicated if it turns out there's really something going on, but you couldn't go to the inspector. I am waiting for this search, because I agree with the Minister that the search for a balance is a balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u148	Following the PwC report, D66 informed on how to deal with low-performing childcare organisations. I think it is important that the study shows that surveillance and enforcement have improved significantly in recent years, partly in the light of what has been said in the Gunning report and the increased attention given to this issue. It has become more professional and powerful and has contributed to increasing safety and quality. In my view, the current enforcement instruments of municipalities are sufficient to allow weak organisations to close down. I therefore do not intend to follow the recommendation to close them within a certain time limit. However, I would like to give municipalities more opportunities to use their instruments, including by imposing stricter requirements on new and existing childcare institutions. I am talking about this with VNG, GGD, municipalities and GGD Amsterdam. As indicated in my response to the evaluation of the Gunning report, I have made increased demands on the business plan and administration. I expect to be able to clarify the outcome of these talks and their concrete content before the summer. The PwC report shows that not all recommendations have been fully followed. GroenLinks asked for that. Why not? Shouldn't that have happened? The report clearly shows that a great deal of profit has been made over the last five years. The parties agree that quality and safety have improved. By focusing on the recommendations that have not been fully followed, you are not doing justice to what has happened and what has been delivered. More can always be done on quality and safety; that is why we have these legislative proposals here. The ambition for this is great. It is precisely in the response to the PwC report that I indicated which improvements are needed in order to further implement them. What am I thinking? Contact culture, further raising requirements for new and existing childcare organisations, increasing the influence of parents and knowledge sharing. In the letters of December last year, I indicated how I would implement them with interested parties. I therefore rely on this to give a firm follow-up to the positive developments over the last five years and to bring the purpose of the Gunning Commission a step closer, which means that parents can only choose from good childcare and very good childcare organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u149	I share the Minister's view that you should also look at what went well. That's what I said in my contribution, by the way. However, the Minister indicated in his initial response to the Gunning Committee's report that he would accept all the recommendations. If we ask for more precise information on each recommendation, it appears that some of the recommendations have not yet been implemented. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u150	That's what my answer was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u151	I do not want to know exactly what the Minister is going to do, but I assume he is saying that he is going to accept all these recommendations and that he will ensure that they are implemented. If the Minister does, I'd like to hear from him when that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u152	That is asking for the familiar way, or rather: it is asking for the way described. In December, in response to the PwC report, I described how recommendations have been implemented and how I proceed with them. That is why I found the question somewhat easy. That report has been there for five years, we are working on it, it has already led to several legislative proposals and the practice has already changed. In December I indicated how I would proceed, because I am not ready and satisfied. You can always do more in the areas of quality and safety. I would therefore be very pleased if Mrs Voortman indicated exactly what she was missing. I have a good answer to that. I believe that we give good reasons for how we deal with the recommendations of the Gunning Committee. You can ask me if I'm taking over all the recommendations. The answer is: yes, I take them over, I work them out, convert them into practice, law and policy. I don't do that alone, but I do that with the practice. There has been an incredible cultural change in childcare after Robert M. and after the report of the Gunning Commission. Continuous screening is a powerful tool and that is now the practice. This leads to signals being picked up earlier. So, no, there's not an easy answer that says I'm doing everything. Yes, we are doing everything, but we are doing so in a way that actually does justice to the objectives of the Gunning Committee. That is what we are focusing on, and I think I described it quite explicitly in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u153	Mrs. Voortman. No? Then the Minister, as he himself says, continues on his graceful one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u154	Is there a situation in which the four-eyed principle does not need to be applied? We must prevent anyone from retreating with a child for a long time without the other being aware of it. However, the four-eye principle is not the only way to limit that risk. An open contact culture is also important for this, and that is why this is ultimately about the risk of cross-border behaviour that should be limited as a mandatory part of security policy. In this way, I want to ensure that more is done than applying the four-eye principle to reduce the risks for children. Also in the old application of the four-eye principle there were moments when there were two eyes. In the end, you do not want to be ticked off and say that according to the rules the four-eye principle is met, but one has to be safety conscious and there must be a culture of contact to prevent periods in which people can be alone with a child for a long time. That is what I mean to say: it is not a question of weakening the demand, but it is a question of supplementing the remedy, the four-eyed principle is a means rather than an end in itself, with the qualitative requirement relating to safety awareness and a contact culture, so that one does not think in the childcare centres that one is ready but that one should want to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u155	The Minister is now saying something other than what is stated in the note on the report. It states that the intention is no longer to include the four-eyed principle as a separate requirement. The minister now says he wants to do this, but he wants to complement it with... I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u156	The four-eye principle is a way of meeting the requirement. So the question is whether you should accept that as a demand or whether you should accept the demand yourself. That's what it's about. Even now you can see that at the edges of the day, so the first hour and the last hour, different rules apply. So you're not gonna get there alone with the rules of the game. It is a question of safety. The four-eye principle remains an element in this, but the question is whether you cannot impose a smarter, stricter and harder requirement on childcare centres. But you will be there when we complete those regulations, so we can have a discussion about whether or not it is strong enough. However, I was concerned that we should not confuse the means and the purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u157	The problem is that I won't be there anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u158	But your party does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u159	The principle of the four eyes, which Gunning so strongly recommended and in which everyone trusted, an eye looks at it and that can be closer, but also from further away, the Minister hopefully keeps up the work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yes, because that principle is about the most important and simple way to comply with the principle that you want to ensure that employees cannot be alone with children for a long time. The question is whether you should be absolutely sure that, in my opinion, we agree that this should not be the case, because that also gives false security or that you should appeal to childcare centres for the purpose that they must achieve. The four-eye principle is crucial in that, but it is not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u161	We're gonna see it, but I've seen it before, that was in terms of working conditions. There the resources were abandoned and the goals were formulated. That's what got us into big trouble. I therefore appeal once again to the Minister to keep that substance in the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u162	The apple is clear. I do not think we disagree on this. I think we agree that this was a very good thing from the Gunning Committee because the phenomenon of people standing alone on a group for a long time was asking for problems. However, you can see now, a number of years later, that more is needed. How to shape that in a way that enables the inspection to get off the ground and children's centers feel called to get on with it, that is what is at issue here. So it's not about lowering or weakening, it's about trying to figure out what the target is and what the cure is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u163	I am pleased to hear the Minister say that it is precisely about strengthening what we are aiming for with the four-eyed principle and that the four-eyed principle remains in place, in accordance with the opinion of the Gunning Commission. However, we now see in practice that at the edges of the day there is one leader or leader on the group. That is exactly what the statement of the father I heard this morning was about, namely that the four-eye principle was in principle arranged, but not at the edges of the day. That's why he was particularly concerned about whether anything could have happened to his child. Can the Minister confirm that when it comes to the gaps you see in practice here and there, the broad security plan is going to fill them in, so that there are always eyes watching and the children are never alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u164	Even if you apply the four-eye principle, there will be a moment when there are two eyes looking, for example because one of the employees has walked out to wash hands, because a worker is changing a child or because a worker is putting children into bed. So there are not always eyes on all children. It is therefore important not to absolute those four eyes. It is a game rule that was important to force childcare centres to deploy sufficient staff, so that even if a group was not fully filled, there were sufficient leaders at the nursery. But that at the edges of the day, because of the professional-child ratio there were always periods with two eyes, is not so strange. That is precisely why it is important to say that, in line with Mr Ulenbelt's answer to a question, you are not ready. Parents should be able to count on safety to be more than just checking whether there are sufficient staff. No, it's gonna take more than that. You can also do more to prevent children from becoming isolated and to prevent children from being vulnerable. That's what we need to talk to these children's centers about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u165	You also have a second term, Mrs Yücel. Do you have to ask a question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u166	Yeah, or I wouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u167	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u168	I note that the Minister states that the four-eye principle, as we know it now, remains at a minimum, including with future legislation, that we are going to look further at how, for example, we can arrange it in a different way at the edges of the day and at least we are going to add more in order to further promote security and the culture of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u169	That's right. Questions have been asked about the pilots, the labs. There are surveillance pilots and there's a pilot quality rating. How much time has been asked for that. The set-up is in 2017 and they will be prepared in 2018. Then an AMvB will follow at the Chamber. They will be carried out in 2019 and end in 2020. Then an evaluation follows and the decision-making starts in 2021. Should it be over or am I more flexible in that? Mr. Van't Wout asked for that. I'm flexible in that. Pilots start in 2019, but an evaluation in 2021 or 2022 is also possible. In Article 1, paragraph 87, the law allows experiments to run for four years. If the outcome of the evaluation of the pilots is that the legal requirements need to be adapted, then the Childcare Act allows us to extend for another two years until the entry into force of the amended requirements. So the space Van 't Wout asked for is in it. I think it would be good to discuss this when dealing with the AMvB which makes the pilots possible. That will be next year, in 2018. Then that pilot AMvB is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u170	I have the impression that we have come to the end of the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u171	Well, not quite yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u172	... and that we do the amendments for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u173	Yeah, and I still have the opc's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u174	Let's talk about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u175	I also have a question from Van 't Wout about comply or explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u176	But let's talk about the previous point, the test gardens. The tricky thing in this debate is that we can always point forward to the drafting of legislation. I have a call to the Minister. Let those labs be as big a project as possible. Those are the things you can fill out with three people, a whole desk and a lot of complexity around it. You can also set it up so that we can do a lot with it. As far as I'm concerned, the approach is second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u177	Sure. Maybe I'll shave by soon, but it's getting pretty big. There is plenty of room for quality as well as supervision. A separate AMvB is being prepared to make this possible. I expect a lot of it, too. I believe that there are opportunities to increase the quality with no indication of how to do so. I think that it is an attractive idea for a lot of entrepreneurs when it comes to the changes that are coming. They get the space to deliver more quality, with customization, with their own variants and ideas. It's not cut off, on the contrary. That room has to be there. Subjects which are regulated in general binding rules must, of course, be complied with. You can't do a comply or explain there. You can create space to deviate, and that's what we're planning. So that comes in that separate AMvB. I haven't had a child care debate in almost four and a half years without talking about the opc's. Traditions are important to us in this house, so we're gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u178	The parent participation crèches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u179	I was just about to explain. You're ahead of me. I saw that everyone was eagerly wondering what those opc's they've been talking about for four and a half years. Well, they're parenting crèches. In the legislative proposal before the Chamber, those parent participation crèches are still brought under a limited quality framework under the Wko. They do not receive a childcare allowance as they meet a limited quality framework. The discussion on the legislative proposal lacked insight into the quality offered by Opc's. There is that insight now. Research shows that current opc's provide a relatively good quality of care despite the fact that they do not meet all the Wko's quality requirements. I think that's a great achievement, and that's why I want to amend the draft legislation. The legislative proposal should recognise the special position of the current opc's and provide them with a place in the childcare system and freeze the current situation. I want to prevent hypothetically new acceding opc's from offering a lower quality. Because we don't pay parents to babysit their own children, current opc's receive a partial childcare allowance, as a compensation for material costs, but not human costs. D66 asks: have we now decided that opc's keep their surcharges and do they know that? There's a bill for it in the Chamber. On the basis of the letter I wrote about it, a letter of amendment now appears. The debate must then take place. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to arrange that. Can I legally justify why no new optics can be added? The aim is to prevent child care from being offered without guarantee of quality with a supplement paid by taxpayers. The Chamber will agree with me. That is why I think it should apply only to the current opc's. We know that the quality there is comparable to the average quality in childcare organisations in 2012, despite the fact that they do not meet some of the requirements relating to quality, the fixedness criterion and the training requirements. Only parents of children on these opcs can therefore claim partial allowances. Don't get me wrong: new opc's may indeed be created within the legal basis, but they are not, in principle, eligible for partial surcharges unless they meet all the requirements. Then there is a right. Several groups have asked whether I can give legal support to this. As I said, I am currently preparing a letter of amendment. I intend to submit that letter of amendment to the Council of State as well, and to give the question of how the legal basis for that distinction is assessed by the Council of State. If that is not possible, I will look into the possible ways in which new opc's could join while maintaining the partial childcare allowance, but without running the risk I just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u180	I'm going to chew on that answer, too, because I taste the openings here and there. Opc's will by definition not be able to comply with all the rules, because care is provided by parents and not by a professional. That is why there will be a separate framework. I understand that the Minister says that he does not want to open the door to initiatives that do not meet the other quality framework. But do I actually hear the Minister say that he wants to take a good look at that again? Each new regular childcare facility is also subject to prior checking of compliance with the framework. You could also have the GGD checked in advance with new opc's if they comply with that framework. I think that is just policy, by the way. In the beginning, of course, you will have a good look at whether this will become a reality in practice. Isn't that the Minister's room I'm tasting? I will urge him a little more in the second term, but I also find it legally strange to distinguish between old and new.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u181	As Mr Weyenberg just described, it is too easy. The quality requirements for childcare are not in vain in the law. This includes the fixed face criterion and training requirements. It is not for nothing that we make these demands. This means that it is very difficult to determine in advance whether an opc offers quality despite the fact that it does not meet the quality requirements. The framework I have outlined does offer the possibility of saying with some confidence 'this is an opc under the law', but before you grant a supplement, as a government, you must be convinced that there is a comparable quality there. This cannot be established in advance on the basis of the framework. It is now allocated to the current opc's because it can be seen in the existing practice that quality is offered, despite the fact that they do not meet all the quality requirements, the fixed face criteria and the training requirements. So that puzzle isn't that easy to solve. You cannot rule out the creation of a new opc whose quality turns out to be good, but the granting of childcare allowance in advance is extremely predicament to me. That does open the door to situations you shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u182	Of course, we have the G.D.D. It has a role in advance at every opening. Even if you re-open an opc, you just have to comply with that custom framework, which I'm happy with. So can the Minister see if the GGD could check that out in advance? The GGD can make a good assessment. After all, we also ask the GGD to do so at regular childcare locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u183	If you say that the fixed face criterion and the training requirements are not going to apply here, how should the GGD say in advance: this pick of parents will probably offer the quality we expect? You shouldn't get over that too easily. I understand the problem in a legal distinction between the old situation and the new situation, but I also ask for some understanding that, in view of the importance of children, we want to limit the risk that, in the future, with public money, in spite of the stricter requirements we impose on professional organisations, we will open the door to new opc's which may not set such a wonderful example once they exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u184	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u185	I'm gonna think out loud now. Does this mean that the Minister's work, which he is still working on, will no longer have any fundamental blockades to look at an organisation which, for example, operates for six months or a year and on which the GGD is satisfied and that he does not want to limit the number of coûte que coûte to the present six?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u186	Basically, it cannot be in six organisations in a field where 170,000 toddlers and hundreds of thousands of children are taken care of. So that is not the issue here, but a principle is that we prefer to put safety and quality first rather than open the door from a well-intentioned feeling in the sense of 'what nice that parents are committed'. That's why I've been so reluctant over the past few years. I also think you should be sporty. The quality of the existing opc's organized by parents has been studied and is handsome. That is why I said that we are going to make this possible, but I also really understand the basic attitude of the government that we should remain sceptical, not so much in the interests of the other childcare organisations as in the interests of the children themselves. Can I rule out the possibility that in the future there will be a situation in which parents set up an opc which turns out to be very good in practice over time? No, I can't rule that out. So it's not a principle, it's a way to do justice to what's built up in those organizations. It is also a deeply felt desire of a large part of the Chamber, without opening a door that I really do not want to open. After all, that would mean that you would make fewer demands if parents were involved. In my view, that is really not in the best interests of the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u187	No one proposes to impose lower requirements on new parent participation crèches than on current parent participation crèches. So where's the problem? The Minister states that this may not be good, but it is also possible for regular nurseries. That is precisely what we have the quality framework for. I'm really trying to understand why the Minister doesn't want the possibility of childcare allowance for new parent participation crèches. Precisely because he wants this for the current crèches, this is actually very inconsistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr Van Weyenberg understood when I just explained this. The point is that there is a set of requirements that you have to meet before you can open a childcare organisation. This set of requirements does not apply in full to parent participation crèches. That is also why it does not make sense to grant a supplement. On the basis of research, existing parent participation crèches have established that they do meet the quality requirements in practice. You cannot think in advance: they are not trained to do this, but they will be fine; the fixed face criterion is not maintained, but I think it is quiet enough for those children. There is no way of establishing this in advance in the current framework. That's the difference. That's why I'm telling you to freeze this. I understand that's always legally complicated. I have indicated to Mr Van Weyenberg that this is not in itself a matter of principle. Basically, however, we must put safety and quality first for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u189	Yeah, but then it makes sense to give new opc's the opportunity to prove themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u190	That possibility is in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u191	We're not gonna get mixed up. Mrs Voortman asks a short question and the answer follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u192	I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has just advocated this: if, after a six-month period, it turns out that a parent's daycare facility is as good as the other parent's daycare facilities, there can also be a right to childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u193	In my bill, parent participation crèches can be legally opened. I have just said that I cannot rule out in principle that, over time, you come to the conclusion that a crèche is so good that the arrangements for the six existing crèches should be extended. However, I am not going to say that in advance and I am not going to use a six-month period. You all know that these existing optics have been operating for far longer than six months. So, please, let us hold on to this restraint and caution for the sake of the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u194	I understand the position of the Minister and the openness with which he conducts the debate in this debate. Is it true that the current parental participation crèches can start new locations in another place within the existing possibilities and that there will be childcare allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u195	I will return to that in second term too, because we are now coming to the treatment of another law. That's the law in which we define the position of the opc's. I understand the temptation, but we're treating two different laws now. The subject of the opc's was a side path. I've taken that path to be for the sake of the Chamber. I do not think that taking another turn is entirely appropriate to the importance which the Chamber attaches to the subject of optics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u196	Two laws in one morning is more than enough. Then there's the clock, which goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u197	The clock is ticking, but we're making progress. I will deal with the relationship between the two legislative proposals. Why are there two, and how do they relate to each other? The answer has shown that it is crazy to increase requirements, but not to harmonise funding. It is also crazy to harmonise funding and not increase requirements, but it is two different things. The VVD wants an evaluation. I think that's a good idea. I'd rather not keep the evaluation too early, because then you don't evaluate so much, but an evaluation after a year or four seems good to me. The members Heerma, Van Weyenberg, Van 't Wout and Voortman asked whether it is still workable and feasible. Much has been prepared and there will be intensive communication. This means that harmonisation, which has already taken place to a large extent, can be achieved. The intention is to allow the amended quality requirements to enter into force at least as from 1 January 2018. In consultation with the parties in the field, it has been discussed that this does not apply to all quality requirements. In a number of demands we look for an ingrowth path, so that entrepreneurs have the time to adapt their business operations and train the pedagogical staff. I am thinking here of the commitment of educational policy staff as of 1 January 2019 and the language requirements. As mentioned above, the relevant AMvB will appear in March. The IKK Decision should be published by 1 July of this year. The quality requirements have been further developed. At the same time, I realize that the various ongoing routes also raise questions. I would like to involve the parties in the sector in the elaboration and to examine with them what a real implementation period is. We've managed to get this far. In the areas in which I cannot yet prescribe them, I would like to agree with the parties in the field on real implementation deadlines. I have faith in that. I'm holding the finger on the wrist. I am, of course, willing to share with the Chamber how implementation is progressing. How can you balance the increase in bureaucratic burdens and their reduction? I said a few things about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u198	The minister's gonna ask us to agree to a law. The effects of this will come to light. He says that he talks with the parties in the field about the implementation time and that some things happen later. I'm kind of looking for the next thing, and it seems to me that the Minister wants that, too. Suppose the requirements cannot be met at individual level for practical reasons. I mention, for example, the bkr, which, in normal human language, leads more per baby group. That's what you need people for. Sometimes a building needs to be modified. If I understand correctly, the bkr will start on 1 January 2018. In addition, it soon concerns a few thousand FTEs. That's a few thousand places. If a provider can prove that he has done everything he can, but that the professionals are simply not there or that he has not yet managed to expand the property, can it be reasonably handled with the enforcement of those requirements? Is there room for this after 1 January 2018? I am not saying that we should just let go of all this, but we should not close it at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u199	I think we should also have confidence in the sector itself. The sector makes these agreements and has even asked for a change in the working-age/child-age ratio. It's just that the babies need them. One in three is present on this point. If you agree that this is the demand, then all organisations have an interest in making it a requirement. Otherwise you get a perverse business model, where one says he didn't succeed. So the organisations in the sector are watching each other, and I think that is right. It is expected that it will succeed in meeting that requirement. In part, that can also be pushed forward. More concerned is the sector about this new position, and I understand that. The function profile has yet to be established and then examined who meets it, and these are also large numbers. So we have already agreed with the sector that this will only be 1 January 2019. I do not feel very strongly about allowing an exception to a clear requirement in the treatment of the law. One in four may also be difficult for some entrepreneurs to find, if you cannot find staff. So I don't think we should do that. I call for confidence in the sector and the commitment to set deadlines for implementation on the basis of the contact with the sector and the agreements that have been made. Mr. Van 't Wout means well, but I'm afraid you'll harm other entrepreneurs again, and you don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u200	I get that. I also think that you should not encourage lazy behavior, to put it this way, but in part I hear what I would like in the Minister's reply. It concerns several requirements: it can be about the bkr, or the outdoor space of toddlers' playrooms. It is good to have confidence in that, and as far as I am concerned, we all walk by after the summer, for example, to see how that is going. If it turns out that after the summer there are problems, how much room do we have to send to them if we agree to this bill on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u201	That lower regulation comes in front of the Chamber. It is not for nothing that we have chosen to introduce the different dates into that lower regulation. In itself, therefore, there is still room for the Chamber to intervene. I just do not want to say now, when the law is adopted, that some requirements will not apply to entrepreneurs who say they cannot meet them. Then we will create a problem, also for the supervisor, because he will have to assess whether an entrepreneur has done his best. On the other hand, I want to offer maximum comfort to the Room. In March the first AMvB comes, on 1 July the quality requirements will come, the Chamber will have the discussion about that and we will involve the sector. It is in its own interest that there should not be an unreasonable period. It is also important for the sector that everyone should stick to it once that date has been set, otherwise there will be differences in that respect. In the situation described by Van 't Wout, it is summer and the labour market is so insane that everyone says it is not going to work. If it turns out to be wrong, then we should take that into account. I totally agree with him and then there's room to adjust that. I am concerned, however, that when we set such a date we do not allow exceptions, because then I fear that we will undermine the aims of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr Van 't Wout, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u203	I just want to see if we can agree on this point. Is the Minister indeed prepared to look after the summer at how we stand with all the agreements we have made, whether they are harmonisation or quality requirements, and whether the timetable is still real? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u204	Absolutely. I have tried to indicate this in all kinds of terms, but that is certainly how we should do it. The trajectory here gives me confidence in that and the way we staged it. But I certainly agree with Mr Van 't Wout. My successor will not do so alone, but together and in consultation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u205	Minister Asscher, I'd like to take stock of what's going on around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u206	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u207	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u208	I'm almost done. I will go on to ask why some things are regulated in law and others in lower regulation. That's just consistent with the way you do things like this. Detailed rules are formulated as much as possible in lower regulations, so that you can adjust them over time, and the principles and main objectives are regulated in the law. Mr Heerma asked whether it was not complicated for working parents. I see a great deal of support for the objectives of the adjustment of the financing structure and harmonisation. Right now, it doesn't seem like a bottleneck. I'm going to have another conversation to see if it is, because I understand the question. Opc's can expand at existing locations. They can't start all kinds of new locations, but they can expand in existing locations. This answer just came in. We have dealt with the bureaucratic burden. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about double registration. By automatic conversion, two children's centres of the same holder may be located at the same address as a children's playroom registered as a children's centre. The holder may choose to submit a request for the raising of the number of child places for either centre. Then that bureaucratic problem is solved again. There are two legislative proposals because the laws themselves have a different purpose. One proposal deals with accessibility and the other with improving quality. Could it have been seen in one law afterwards? No doubt. They have to do with the same thing, but they have different goals. I'm really glad we're treating them today. I come to the amendments, starting with the Van 't Wout amendment on part No. 9. I leave this to the judgment of the Chamber. An evaluation fits into the policy. This bill does not provide for the possibility of pilot projects per AMvB. That possibility is in the law itself. There will be a separate AMvB to indicate how this should be done and to clarify the rules of the game. In this context, the Court of Justice's opinion applies to the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u209	You can also accept the amendment. I'm saying this in my role as a technical supervisor today. You can do so under Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u210	I shall leave the amendment to the House's discretion. I would like to do the same with regard to Amendment No 2. 8 by Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u211	This amendment has been replaced by the amendment on item No. 10, with a double signature, Ulenbelt and Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u212	Well, well, well. I can leave the amendment to the Court's opinion when it is not a question of training requirements, but of an obligation to change. That is how I understood the amendment, but that is what I want to say in the debate. Then I can leave the amendment to the opinion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u213	I'm just making sure that your interpretation of the confession is the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u214	It is expressly not intended that the senior boss has followed the training for teaching staff. Elements of this must be part of his knowledge. We'll have to do that in the AMvB. Requirements that we set low in the organisation do not have to be the same as the requirements we set high in the organisation. The inspection must be able to verify it on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u215	We're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u216	The second signatory agrees? I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u217	At the end, the Minister addressed a question on harmonization for a short time. Apart from the question of whether the timeline for the children's playrooms is ticking, you have to deal with the issue that parents have to deal with twice with a change of system through the other legislative proposal that is still coming. Of course, we do not know whether that other bill is going to make it, because it is technically complicated. In the base, there seems to be broad support for it. Isn't it in line with the expectation of linking these things together, rather than confronting parents twice with a big change?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u218	I did not choose to do so because I like to keep up the pace and to continue with this as soon as possible. However, I can understand Mr Heerma's reasoning. If the Chamber has that tendency, I won't stand up to it. I think there are arguments for this, but I think there are also good arguments for going forward now. They are prepared for this. We also need to see whether the proposal on direct financing is going to be implemented in the way I intend. However, I do understand the reasoning. I have made a different assessment myself, but I do not oppose the idea in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr Heerma, can you take this with you for your second term or do you still want to respond to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u220	Would the examination of the direct financing bill still be a moment to be able to discuss it, or should the Chamber now propose it to the Minister? I can imagine that we will discuss this in the second term or deal with it in an amendment. In theory, however, we can also look at this when dealing with the direct financing bill, because then the uncertainty is less as to whether or not that law will be passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u221	Then I think it would be more elegant to make an appointment about it now, otherwise the date of introduction would be so close that it could create such uncertainty that it would also have disadvantages for the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u222	What might help with this interruption is that, at the request of a Member, I will suspend three minutes after the reply by the Minister, which is actually now three minutes. So perhaps there will be some further consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u223	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u224	We were just talking about "pass or explain" in the context of the test areas, the pilots. I had also asked the Minister whether it would be conceivable that, apart from the experimental space that we are going to allow for individual quality requirements, it could also be considered whether this would not be applicable. The Minister himself just now used another reasoning along that line when it comes to the four-eye principle. Ultimately, this is a means and probably an important means, but what we are all striving for is, of course, the aim of safe childcare. Can the Minister at least consider, in the further development of the lower regulations, whether you can apply such a system to different parts without going into such a process of testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u225	We have to be careful it doesn't get semantic. In itself, I think we're going very much in that direction. If in the context of a ticking list you summarized the quality requirement of...... "how cold was the peanut butter?" changes in quality requirements related to the educational environment, by definition, that a holder can apply and show how to do so and can also be monitored. The reason why I do not want to apply or explain as an opportunity for the whole is that, I think, we agree that the demands we make should then apply to everyone. So you have to meet those requirements. Only, in the new supervision is much more that way of thinking. Then there are also demands that apply to everyone in the same way. You'll have to live up to that. Then you still have the opportunity to experiment through test areas. That is then framed in the AMvB. So I think in itself this form of laying down quality is much more in that direction. Then you shouldn't say on top of that: if you don't meet those requirements and you explain that, it's enough. Otherwise, you're gonna make things even more difficult for the supervisor. That supervisor should actually be able to assess whether it meets the requirements, even if funds are sometimes used that would not have been allowed under the old framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u226	Finally, Mr Van 't Wout, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u227	This is perhaps a discussion that we can have in the process of drawing up. It is true that that thought is much more in the new bill than in the old situation, but also a professional-child ratio is ultimately a means. I think it's important and I also understand why we're recording it, but it's ultimately a means. In the end, I think we would prefer to move towards a situation where what is to be achieved is prescribed and less how one should do so. I understand that you may not be taking the most radical step in this right now, but let's talk about it again when the AMvB's are being developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u228	I always want to move with Mr. Vant Wout. However, I would point out that the greatest cost factor in childcare is the staff, so well-trained staff standing in front of a group. So you need tough measures to organise a level playing field, so that everyone knows about: you can't get around that. I think this is an example of a very important demand that should not be easily nibbled at, because the practice is that the first turns will be cut, as we know from the past. Creative grids, smart tricks, we've all seen it, especially at the bad childcare institutions. So yes, you have to look at the goal that you want to achieve, but the professional-child ratio is a very important instrument. Therefore, it has also been adapted for the bso.... to ensure the basic quality and to organise a level playing field. They will all have to hire staff to meet them, but in there and above they can distinguish themselves in a smart way and with customization. So the example given by Mr Van 't Wout, as far as I am concerned, does not fit in with the idea I would like to go along with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u229	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u230	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, at her request and with the agreement of the other Members who would otherwise have spoken before her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Yücel for letting me lead the way. I'll start with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new quality requirements in childcare organisations may increase their rates and allow these rates to exceed the maximum hourly rate;]] [[Whereas childcare costs are reimbursed up to a maximum amount through childcare allowances;]] [[Whereas low-income parents may face a relatively high price increase when rates are higher or are higher than the maximum hourly rate;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the impact of the new quality requirements on childcare rates and the use of childcare facilities, and on low-income parents in particular, and to inform the Court of Justice about them one year after the law has been introduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Yücel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34596-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u232	I have a question about the motion. Of course, I had to listen in real quick. In my opinion, Mrs Voortman says: you should mention low incomes, but the motion does not focus exclusively on them. You also know: what are low incomes? Two teachers, who together earn €70,000, find themselves in a very different way in the stalls of the childcare allowance. This can also have an effect on all of this. Shouldn't the motion be: just look for everyone what the effects are? So we can take it with us when we make a new decision on the whole table, which states who we are giving how much child care allowance. That would in any case greatly increase the enthusiasm of the VVD for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u233	In this way, I think you can see what the effects are for each income group. I would therefore like to amend the motion accordingly. I'll take a look at Mrs. Yücel, too. I think she's okay with that, too. I thank Mr Van 't Wout for this suggestion. I think I can move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u234	Does that mean that there will be another amended motion? Then I hope the Minister will be able to respond to the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u235	The only difference will be that we ask what the effects are for the different income groups and therefore the piece on low incomes in particular will be taken out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u236	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u237	With regard to parental participation crèches, I agree with what Mr Van Weyenberg will say about this. I know that we are very much in agreement on this point. The Gunning Committee made 77 recommendations, 29 of which were implemented and the rest in part or not. Of course, there may always be reasons not to implement certain recommendations, but then it is good that you indicate why you do not. If you make it sound like it's all right, in the vein of "we're on the right track," you run the risk of something happening at some point and you think: what about that recommendation? This might have prevented this, but it does not appear to have been carried out. The vice case is now about five years ago. It's been a terrible episode. That is why we have set up this committee and that is why we say: be very explicit about it, by recommendation. It may seem detailed, but I don't think you can be specific enough in this kind of thing. On the legislative proposals themselves, I can say that we find them an important step towards a significant improvement. We very much welcome the way in which the Minister has ensured that there is broad support for it. We shall therefore vote in favour of the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u238	Thank you very much for the answers. With this procedure in the Chamber and with the Minister's answers, we are perfectly capable of getting out of the way. I think it would be good to adopt the legislative proposals with broad support next week. I also hope that the examination by the First Chamber can take place quickly. Of course, we think that every step we can take in terms of quality and safety promotion is great, but the field must have sufficient time to prepare and implement it properly. I'm filing one motion. Although the Minister has been very clear, the letters leave room for other interpretations. However, I would like to emphasise the four-eyed principle and ask for an explanation of vote. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the four-way principle can play an important role in creating a good contact culture in childcare;]] [[Whereas such a contact culture can further promote the safety of childcare;]] [[noting that the four-way principle is now enshrined in a ministerial arrangement, while it deserves a prominent place in security policy;]] [[calls on the Government to make the four-way principle, in accordance with Commission-Gunning's opinion, a mandatory part of the safety plan and to lay it down in the Decision on innovation and quality in childcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yücel and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34596-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u239	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. Let us be clear that we certainly consider the quality rules to be an important step. There has been extensive consultation with all stakeholders and it is a good step forward to further improve quality and reduce the risks of abuses. We would like to exclude them all, but unfortunately we are not given to make such promises. I will advise my group to definitely support the bill. The same applies to the harmonization of funding. Whether you call it a step or a step forward, as Mr Ulenbelt said, it is progress. I know that we still have a very big step to take in the new cabinet, but I know that I will find this minister's party by my side. There will be a motion, tabled by me too, to keep the finger on the wrist for the next few months so that we keep the pace. All the rules that everyone must follow from 1 January must be clear as soon as possible. I have a motion on the opc's. I have heard very well where the Minister's concern lies, and I understand that. In ordinary child care, you have professional professionals with a degree, but that's different here. I understand that and hence the next motion calling for it, but it has also been formulated in such a way that the Minister, in consultation with the opc's, can put it into practice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an uneven playing field for parent participation crèches is undesirable;]] [[noting that parents using existing opc's, parental participation crèches, which fulfil all the conditions, are entitled to child care allowance;]] [[noting that parents using new opcs, which meet the same safety and quality requirements, are not entitled to child care allowance;]] [[noting that this creates an uneven playing field for opc's, parents and children;]] [[calls on the government to align the rules on childcare allowances for all opc's, now and in the future, which have been proven to meet the same safety and quality conditions, and to make a proposal to this effect in the amended legislation on parental participation crèches,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Weyenberg, Pieter Heerma, Voortman and Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34596-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u240	The Minister was right to say that by adding the word 'proven' I would like to give him the opportunity to give him an explanation of the principle which some parliamentary groups are calling for, while at the same time preventing us from ending up in situations which the Minister rightly does not want and in which I also support him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u241	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive and yet staccato answer of many questions. The VVD can support the direction of this law. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour. I think that we still have a lot to debate in the process, because that is where the real effect of this legislation is, of course. The amendment I have tabled has been amended, but that is because more fans have joined it, Mrs Yücel and Mr Heerma. Finally, I would like to make two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as from 1 January 2018, children's playrooms and daycare centres will have to meet new legal quality requirements;]] [[Whereas children's playrooms and daycare facilities after the planned publication of the bill have only six months to meet the legal requirements for childcare;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor progress in the preparation and implementation of day care and playrooms, as well as possible bottlenecks in the implementation of legal requirements, and to report to the Court in autumn 2017;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Innovation and Quality of Childcare Act lays down the foundations for quality-enhancing measures within childcare;]] [[Whereas the practical implementation of these measures will often take place in lower legislation;]] [[Whereas the quality-enhancing measures have a regulatory impact on childcare providers;]] [[noting that the government has at its disposal the tool of the business impact assessment to identify the impact on business in new and changing regulations;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a business impact assessment in the development of lower regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of the implementation of this test, or to add it to the development of the lower regulation, both for the individual lower regulation and cumulatively, and to make it clear what the measures, individually and cumulatively, mean for the costs incurred by parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van 't Wout, Pieter Heerma, Yücel and Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34596-12]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van 't Wout, Pieter Heerma, Yücel and Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34596-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u242	Yes, but the abbreviation did help to pronounce the motion in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u243	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term reply and for the openness with which he entered into a number of discussions with the Chamber, including in areas not actually covered by this bill. I hope he will see that the Chamber has also used this debate in the text of the motion tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of a number of political groups on parental participation crèches. In my view, this also shows that we are cooperating with the Minister, who has just heard his answers. In my opinion, the bill on parental participation crèches mentions new organisations and not new locations. In the short answers that just got to the tail, new locations seemed to be possible, although I think that could be done with what is now. I am also looking forward to answering questions about parental involvement in the future. For this, the Minister referred to the second term. I am curious about participation councils and whether or not they could remain in preschool playrooms that are being transformed. For the future of childcare, it is quite interesting not to allow participation councils to disappear altogether. In the future, they may prove to be a development that we might be quite enthusiastic about. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if they were chosen to keep them in those preschool playrooms where they already are. On a number of other concerns I have, the VVD Group has just tabled two motions which I have co-signed. At the end of his first term, the Minister made clear my own humanity and my own failure to do so, because I had to put together a motion very quickly which I had not prepared. That motion is about direct funding. I initially had DF in the motion, which I made "direct funding." I'm going to file that motion now. I understand that there are problems with direct financing, because there are also names from the Municipal Fund which are again related to harmonization. I hope the Minister understands the intention of the motion, given the debate that we had just at the end of his reply in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas parents should not be confronted with new funding twice for them if a system of direct financing is decided upon;]] [[Whereas it should not be more expensive for them to postpone their entitlement to a supplement;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the introduction of harmonisation until the entry into force of direct financing if the bill is adopted directly in the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34596-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its broad support for both legislative proposals. I'm very happy with that. It's really wonderful that this is working and it's good for the kids. The first question which remained in the first period concerned the co-determination council. It can last forever. So we can keep it. One amendment has been amended in the sense that a name has been added, not in substance. The opinion "Court of Justice" thus remains valid. Against the motion in part No. 9 I say yes, especially after the change in the interrupting debate on monitoring accessibility. We will, so I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 10 on the four-way principle, I would also like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, even more so, I would like to take over the motion, to use that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u245	Is there any member of the House who objects to the adoption of this motion in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u246	Not because I wouldn't want to support her in advance, but things are moving fast. There were good reasons in the bill to check here as well if there was any customization...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u247	You don't have to argue with it. You may still want to discuss it in your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'd like to take a look at it myself, and yes, with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u249	That means the motion will not be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u250	Then I'm gonna stick to "judge room."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u251	The motion therefore has a ruling Chamber and Mrs. Yücel leaves her interruption, I see. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u252	All right. The motion in part No. 11 is about parental participation crèches. I understand the content, but I recommend that the motion be retained until the time when we are going to talk about this subject, otherwise I must advise against the motion, precisely because according to the researchers, the current quality offered cannot be secured for new entrants either. I've gone a long way with that exercise. I have also indicated that I will ask the Council of State to look at the legal distinction, but my advice would be: hold this motion. The moment we can deal with that bill, there's plenty of room to do that. Otherwise, I'm really gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u253	Mr Van Weyenberg, are you going into these advances?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u254	Not yet, but I'll talk to my colleagues about that as well. We have clearly added the word "proven" to do justice to the Minister. I do wonder with what basic attitude the Minister will prepare the bill if we hold this motion. Perhaps then I feel the need to give the Minister a direction, or perhaps I think: the wishes in the Chamber have been listened to, so I am waiting to see what the internal discussions lead the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u255	That basic attitude can only be derived from the fact that I indicated that I would explicitly ask the Council of State to look at that distinction between existing and new cases. There is a legal element in this and an element of justice. At the same time, I have expressed concerns. The room understood it well. My basic attitude is not directly that it should be possible, but also not "ammenevernever." My basic attitude is, on the one hand, the concern for safety and quality for children and, on the other hand, the great importance this Chamber attaches to the phenomenon of parental participation crèches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u256	Does the Minister therefore take into account that there is a distinction to be made, for example, by not giving a supplement for a certain period until there has been "proven"? I am not asking the Minister to say now that he is going to do so, but I am asking the Minister to include that option or variant in his reflections on that bill. This raises not only a legal question, but also a policy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u257	In itself, that bill, which we're not dealing with right now, offers that space already. You can also adopt that bill, which allows parent participation crèches to start working in that framework without a supplement. After a few years, the Chamber can then say: we now see that it is being used and the quality is good, so Minister Whoever that may be, is it not now time to see whether a situation is applicable, similar to that of the old six? For that, I do not need to change the bill so much or adopt a different basic attitude. On the contrary, the legislative proposal provides a framework within which parent participation crèches can work without a supplement, but within a certain framework. Maybe that wasn't so bad, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u258	For the time being, I'm going to put the motion to the vote, but I'm going to have a little more time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u259	The motion in part No. 12 by Mr Van 't Wout c.s. in order to monitor the preparation of the implementation and to inform and report on it to the Chamber is in line with what we have just exchanged; I leave the assessment to the Chamber. I'm positive about it. Through the motion in part No. 5 the government is invited to carry out the business impact test. In my first term, I said that this did not seem wise to me, because the test was on test, when I thought, but sometimes you are more convinced of the forces of your arguments than the Chamber, that I had indicated that we had done everything in advance and that it would be a double. I indicated that we would do another cost study and said: do not do this now, because this leads to an excess. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 14 by Mr Heerma on the introduction...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u260	I don't quite understand where the Minister's resistance is. I do not attach particular importance to the means of the business impact test, but I just want us to have as complete an insight as possible into the effects and what all these things add up ultimately mean in all the lower regulations that we are presented with. It has already been said at first: we are going to make a cost-benefit analysis and it will be given to the Chamber in any proposal that results from this. The intention of this motion is to make it as specific as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u261	I have promised to take account of the balance sheet in the lower regulations. I have described how we have calculated the effects on administrative burdens in advance: 13.5 million increase, 13 million reduction, a total of 0.5 million increase, but there is something on the contrary. I have also promised to come to the Chamber with the lower regulations so that the Chamber itself can verify whether this important element has been adequately taken into account in the explanatory notes on the lower regulations. My impression is that this motion adds a business impact test, a tool that is not very light. This must be done not only by individual measures but also cumulatively. I feel like we're gonna do another job and it's gonna slow down. I do not think that is necessary, precisely because we are making cost-benefit analyses and because we are also looking at the cost of companies as a kind of stick behind the door or lock on the door. That leaves you with the parents' position. Of this we have indicated quite well in advance not for nothing BOinK joins in how parents are not disadvantaged by the changes, but are compensated for their costs. So I honestly have the feeling that I went into all the elements that have been mentioned here in the first term and that we would then agree on something that does not add much to the legitimate desire of Van 't Wout, but which does bring a lot of extra work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u262	So you're sticking to your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u263	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u264	Then we'll see it at the vote on Tuesday. The motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u265	I understand the motion in part No. 14. All admiration for the speed of action. All we have to do is set a date. Then I could leave the motion to the House's judgment. I think you should drop the axe by September 1st. If the law is adopted, then you can say that the date of introduction must be adapted to the date of introduction of direct financing. I understand the argument. This then offers an advantage for parents over the disadvantage of delay. If this is not the case, then I would say that there is a legitimate interest in bringing harmonization together on quality and on funding, and then we need to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u266	Mr. Heerma, is there going to be an amended motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u267	I will come up with an amended text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u268	In what sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u269	I'm not gonna do that right now on the Interrupt Microphone. I shall submit an amended text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u270	My opinion on the motion therefore depends on the amendment. If this date were mentioned, I would leave her to the Court's judgment. If there were no date in it, or if it were to remain in the dark, I would advise against the motion. With this virtual advice I conclude my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u271	It's not that virtual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u272	Mr President, I have just consulted with my fellow petitioners. I'm holding the motion in part no. I hope that the Minister will look again in his thinking to see whether a particular process can be agreed, so that the opc's will know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u273	At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I propose his motion (34596), No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u274	The motion in part No. 14 was Heerma's motion, of which there is a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u275	It's about the motion in part No. 11. So you are not going to go into what Mr Van Weyenberg said about holding his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u276	No, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u277	You are pleased to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u278	With great joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u279	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-3.u280	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his detailed explanations. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the two legislative proposals, the amendments and the motions.
