ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u1	This debate has been requested by Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 and I am therefore the first to give her the floor. As she walks to the chair, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I believe that one of the last debates before the recess on the climate was held and the first debate in this new period after the recess is about the climate again. This debate will come at a difficult time. I refer to the floods in Bangladesh, India and Nepal as a result of heavy rainfall. The city of Houston has been hit by Hurricane Harvey and we all know that Irma is approaching our own Windward Islands. Extreme weather conditions can surprise villages, cities and even entire countries, with all the consequences. In the Netherlands too, of course, we once paid an expensive price and took measures. A delta plan aimed at preventing and managing risks and both are crucial, including in the context of climate change. We talk a lot about how to prevent climate change in this Chamber, but it is also important that we look at the effects that we are already seeing and ensure that we deal with them properly. Heat has an effect on densely populated cities. I refer to the health of older people and other vulnerable groups, increased air pollution, reduced work performance and disease breakdown. Those aren't minor effects. We therefore welcome the letter from the Secretary of State, which shows that the problems are being taken seriously. A lot is already happening and it is very good that the Secretary of State has brought together a number of these points in her letter. I have some additional questions for her. I am well aware that it is mainly questions that may lead to further development in the coming months rather than new concrete decisions in the final days of this outgoing cabinet. Working together. There's a nice program, the City Deal Climate Adaptation. My question to the Secretary of State is what progress has been made and how we can make it wider in the Netherlands. Then there's construction regulations. What is needed in building regulations to make climate adaptation a structural part of the national policy and what scope do municipalities have to take action? With an increasingly compacting city, I believe that over the next ten years, one million more people will be travelling to the cities. Do our municipalities have the instruments for that? Then there's the Environment Act. During its treatment, D66 has always argued that the law should be truly climate proof. Are there sufficient instruments to help cities to make this city climate-neutral or climate-ready in their spatial planning policies? And then knowledge development. Will climate adaptation in the Netherlands also become a topic of the expertise center climate adaptation that will settle in the Netherlands? How can we exchange the knowledge we are acquiring with other countries that are struggling with similar challenges and how can we learn from them? Finally. A number of former colleagues from the Labour Party have made some interesting suggestions for greenery in and around the city. We have the note Green and Water. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether there are any other points in it which she is going to elaborate further. And then all the way to the end. Heating, cooling and exploiting is of course also something that Economic Affairs is very much working on in the context of the energy transition. Are the right links placed there too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mrs Van Veldhoven. The second speaker has the floor, and that is Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the letter of 25 August last on heat stress, which shows that she is well aware of the wide variety of problems that arise as heat in cities is increasing. These problems become rapid when an urban environment loses its green. So you would expect that given all the benefits of greenery, that greenery also increases in the cities, but that doesn't seem to be the case when you study the aerial photos. It is therefore remarkable that relatively little is being done to preserve and further promote greenery in the city. According to the World Crash Report of the Red Cross, the heat wave in France in 2015 with more than 3,000 deaths was the second deadliest natural disaster of that year. The Plan Bureau for the Environment states that "hittestress is an effect that already has a very large impact on humans in the short term." The need for action is therefore great. However, in the 2016 National Climate Adaptation Strategy, we read that heat stress is not given much attention at all levels of government. That's pretty special. Also in the January 2017 Interim Evaluation Spatial Adaptation, you can read on page 3 that the widely supported opinion is that there should be a tooth. This leads to my first questions. Does the Secretary of State share the view that more needs to be done? And can the Secretary of State promise that heat stress will be given a more prominent place in the Spatial Adaptation Delta Programme? The 2016 National Climate Adaptation Strategy also states that a measure is seen as greening as a tricky issue, because of the fact that a measure is being considered as a greening issue, and now it has other goals. Green is therefore important, but because of other goals it is difficult. That brings me to the next question. Can the Secretary of State give a brief reflection on what these other objectives are and how she sees the prioritisation of those other objectives? In my second term, I shall then perhaps come back to that with a motion. Finally, it is quite a conclusion that can be read on page 4 of the same interim report. This conclusion is that the greening that is now being achieved is achieved in spite of the institutional frameworks rather than through the institutional frameworks. Of course, you're hoping those frameworks will help, but the conclusion is that they're not helping. I would therefore like to receive a response from the Secretary of State and a brief reflection on the nine recommendations here. Does it intend to take it over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u5	I see that Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has a question for you, so stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u6	I hear Mr Van Raan talking about frameworks. Of course, that's always useful, especially when you're making policies. But does he really want to lay it down in regulations, in certain percentages of green or something like that? Or does he say: it must be custom-made, in which cities and villages can take their own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thanks for the question. We are not a party that says that you have to dictate from the government what the percentage of green should be in the city of Groningen or in Heerlen. However, one could say that if the conclusion is that the frameworks are missing, are pinching or not working, then of course you can see at national level what we can do to help the local authorities in general. And there can be compelling things in there. For example, make sure that the other objectives mentioned are clear in a balancing framework. This can, of course, be imposed in a mandatory way, so that local authorities or regions have to set targets and set priorities. You can force that without telling me what the prioritization should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u8	That is a rather complicated answer, but it is more of a question of awareness and information, isn't it? Then it's more of a checklist Mr. Van Raan is referring to, rather than saying from The Hague what's good in Heerlen or in the other city he mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u9	I think the questioner may not have read the reports properly after all. They are full of recommendations that checklists, recommendations and non-binding should be sufficient. That's not true. To come from The Hague again with a non-binding "make a checklist', we don't seem very useful, and probably not the questioner either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. It's a bit of a weird debate. The cabinet is a missionary. Apart from the Christian Union, all the parties that are now talking about the formation of a new cabinet are taking part in this debate. Mrs Van Veldhoven, applicant for this debate and also a member of the negotiating party D66, wants to talk about the heat in the city. By talking about the heat in the city, there is the risk that we might be able to take advantage of the autonomy of municipalities. The municipal councils and the lectures know better than we do here in The Hague what measures should be taken in their city. In my opinion, they are not waiting for things to be imposed from the great The Hague. Similarly, citizens should be given more influence than they now have on decisions that they are getting spilled over in the context of the transition to renewable energy. Global warming must be taken together, because there is something going on in the world. Whether or not we agree, we are the beginning of the solution. Then it is about the contribution to solving the climate problem. Just a few messages: floods in India, Bangladesh and Nepal, Hurricane Harvey in Houston. Mrs Van Veldhoven mentioned them as well. The ice caps on Greenland and Antarctica melt faster than ever. It's making me a little quiet. Our small country with a population of over 17 million and many more animals has much to lose in all respects. After all, a large part of our country lives below sea level. According to SP, we can't waste any more time. It's time to make decisions and actually do things. Of course, in recent years, a Delta programme has been deployed and this will be continued with the Spatial Adaptation component on Prinsjesdag. But we have to stop the paper from being patient and it's only on paper. We're gonna have to do everything we can. For example, we should not just talk about the closure of coal power stations. Is a law to shut down all coal power stations part of the coalition talks? Do we stop selling out our companies so that Eneco, who is doing well in terms of sustainability, is not sold to the highest bidder? Do we accept our responsibility when it comes to measures that reduce CO emissions? Do we dare to shred peat areas, with which we are going to take 3% to 4% of Dutch CO emissions a year alone? Let us not only see water storage as a solution for many water mountains in a short time, but let us also tackle the heating of cities with solutions from the past, such as narrow streets with lush plant growth. The cool shade of a plant deck immediately lowers the air temperature a number of degrees. But also: tile out and plant in it. I hope that we will stop the purely economic approach of the world around us. It is time to move forward with unorthodox measures where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. Climate change is a global problem. We're dealing with that, too. We see disasters far from home, but we are also increasingly confronted with heavy rain or rising temperatures in our own environment. This debate is about heat stress, the fact that cities heat up faster than the countryside, sometimes with temperature differences of 10°C. This has consequences such as additional costs and additional energy consumption. Think of the air conditioning that has to run. Another consequence is reduced labour productivity, because you'd rather do something different and you're less productive. There are more diseases and even deaths. So we also need to keep our cities liveable. After all, everyone wants to live and live comfortably, with as little risk as possible. Climate change is a major global problem, as indicated. Adaptation will therefore also require an effort, but we should not come up with measures such as a curb tax proposed by an alderman in Aalburg in Brabant. With these kinds of proposals, you are taking away the support for climate adaptation, which is much wider than that. It is precisely this support that is essential to tackle this challenge. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. We have a challenge to prevent the negative effects of heat and nuisance on our society. This cabinet hasn't been idle. The Delta programme invests 1 billion a year. With new water safety standards, we ensure that we keep dry feet in the longer term. That's unique in the world. Our knowledge and creativity are enormous and half the world is looking at us, from the US to Bangladesh. We also do it with the Deltaplan Spatial Adaptation, which comes with Princess Day, with the National Climate Adaptation Strategy and with implementation plans. The letter from the cabinet is clear and shows how we can capture climate adaptation in an integral and broad way. In addition to these major projects, it is also wise for cities to arm themselves locally against heat and heavy showers, starting with raising awareness. Cities and residents are primarily self-involved. Sometimes relatively simple solutions are possible with a little common sense, so that spatial planning can be adapted. Think of a playground with water-permeable tiles, green roofs for storage, greener squares, cooler, water squares like in Rotterdam where excess water is temporarily stored, wadis, the use of light stones as they have been in southern Europe for centuries, narrow alleys through which the trip can go with shade, a fresh breeze and lots of green especially. So smarter...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr Dijkstra, Mr Van Raan has a question or an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u13	I am pleased to hear Mr Dijkstra say'much green, above all'. It was in some kind of subtlety, but he said "a lot of green." But that's not my question. He focuses on things that are already there and he advocates awareness. I can share that with him. Does he share the conclusion in the Interim Evaluation report that there is a broad opinion that there needs to be a tooth, so that more needs to be done than is already happening? Does he share that conclusion from that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u14	What report are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u15	That is the report Interim Evaluation Spatial Adaptation of January 2017. The NAS 2016 has been evaluated, spoken with many parties and said: all very well, but much more needs to be done. Does Mr Dijkstra share that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u16	It's useful that the awareness grows. That is why we have this debate. When you do something in your city, you give the people responsible the opportunity to do smart things. I've given you some examples of smart things. The more people know about these kinds of solutions, the better. This is a win-win situation: there is green in your neighborhood, you can just live and live and at the same time prevent all these excesses. I think that's a good thing. Is that a tooth? Yes, in terms of awareness, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr Van Raan, you are not convinced yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u18	No, because Mr Dijkstra repeats what he said before. I'll hear him say it needs a tooth. That is perhaps not so much the awareness of the citizens he advocates as the awareness of Mr Dijkstra himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u19	Awareness of everyone. We have this debate at a somewhat later date, so the focus on it will be a little less. Awareness means that you take excessive water into account in your environment, that you take into account: how about the sun, the water storage, the flow, the air quality and so on when you build houses or a new building district as a driver. Collect and bundle all the great examples we already have at the local level and put them down with Princess Day in the new adaptation strategy, so that everyone can learn about it. I think that's a good development. If that's a tooth, it's a tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u20	Okay, you can continue your speech, Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u21	So smarter and as integral as possible. I have given a number of examples. Knowledge institutes such as the KNMI, renowned worldwide, can work with industry to see what these solutions are. They have data and can see together where the risks are and what the solutions are. Even now, my question is whether more cooperation is possible, for example using this weather knowledge for early warning and making better use of it. Our mission is to work with our knowledge institutes, with companies and with governments on this adaptation and prevent damage. I have two more questions. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for this? Does it agree with the VVD that companies can play a good advisory or executive role and what can they do to promote this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkstra. Mrs Kröger has the floor and she is speaking on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past week, we have seen what climate change looks like. The United States, Bangladesh and the Caribbean are plagued by storms that scientists say are caused by climate change. It's not a distant future anymore. It's here and now. Therefore, in addition to discussing how to combat climate change, it is high time we discussed the consequences of climate change with urgency. Tonight we are talking about heat stress in cities, according to research by the VU a major problem. The Secretary of State's letter shows that little preparation has been made, particularly as regards spatial measures to combat heat stress. Much of the climate adaptation policy is focused on water, which makes sense in our country. With regard to GroenLinks, more attention will also be paid to the role of green. This applies worldwide, with the fight against deforestation and the restoration of nature, but certainly also locally. The most effective for preventing heat in the city are measures for more greenery, for example by planting trees, the uncomfortables, but also through green roofs and green facades. This must be given more direction by the government. The implementation lies of course with cities, but from the government there can be guidelines for greenery in the city. One example is schoolyards. Can there be a national directive for greenery in schoolyards? But other public places, such as car parks and sports fields, can also be green. Today, as a committee, we were offered a study showing, for example, that natural grass on sports fields has a stronger cooling effect than artificial grass. It is also important to realize as many green roofs and facades as possible. Already in 2011, the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu called for green roofs to be included in the Building Decision. Is it true that this still hasn't happened? Why didn't that happen? Can there be tax advantages for green roofs and more green in the city, for example by extending the environmental investment deduction? Can national standards be drawn up for this? In France, for example, it is already mandatory for new office buildings to have green roofs. Can we follow that example? The government itself must, of course, set a good example. What are the targets regarding green roofs on government buildings? Why doesn't every government building have a green roof or a green facade? Locking up. Green in the city has many advantages. Good for health, good for quality of life, good for nature and biodiversity, and good for the climate. I wonder what measures the Secretary of State intends to take to promote greenery in the city.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u24	I often hear GroenLinks about these beautiful green roofs. I'm also into green roofs, but you have to see if it's possible or not. I think GroenLinks has its headquarters in Utrecht. How durable is that building? Is there sedum on the roof yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u25	I have to be honest with you about the answer, but I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u26	I'd love to, because idealism is good, but commitments might undermine that support I was talking about again. So you get these kinds of excesses of obligations at offices, which of course cannot be done everywhere. I think you need to look very closely at customization and keep local authority where it belongs. Does Mrs Kröger agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u27	I think it is important that we see roofs as a public space that can be used for energy generation, for more greenery in the city and for water collection. These functionalities are currently not being taken into account. Of course, there is also a correlation between solar panels and green on the roof. Solar panels have more efficiency on a green roof. So it's actually a win-win situation. The opportunity to use rooftops is still not taken up enough. Given the urgency of climate change and adaptation, as a government, you really need to look at how to act more steeringly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. On 1 June, Mr Van Veldhoven asked for a debate on the warming up of cities during the work schedule. In its letter of 25 August last, the government mentions several aspects. On that basis, I would like to walk through a number of them. In two weeks, on Prince's Day, we will receive the Delta Plan Spatial Adaptation, as part of the Delta Programme 2018. The Secretary of State promises us that the Delta Plan sets out the measures to reduce the damage caused by water pollution, heat stress, drought and floods caused by climate change. We'll just have to wait and see. The fact that heat stress is a serious problem has been known for a long time. It provides more hospitalizations and deaths. It's bad for humans and animals. New is that it is an additional problem for cities, due to the so-called heat island effects. At certain places it can become 5°C to 10°C warmer than in the countryside. Because this is relatively new, the approach to heat stress is still in its administrative and political infancy. We are curious about the results of the impact projects that are financially supported by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. I therefore ask the Secretary of State: has there been any mention of this? We think the project Heat cooling and using is very interesting, because it is about getting energy from surface water, which allows buildings to be heated or cooled. The project development tool heat stress for towns and villages in the rural area is also interesting, as it advocates a regional-specific approach. The approach to greening cities through city deals and thus cooling them also seems to us good. As a result, we ask for more space for cyclists in the city, in accordance with my predecessor Sander de Rouwe's own initiative paper, and for the fact that the energy transition also has an impact on the layout of the infrastructure, especially underground. These aspects need to be looked at in an integral and coherent way. Important for the CDA is the question of what the role of the Empire is. This is mainly a matter for municipalities and water boards. In our view, the role of the Empire lies primarily in the creation of frameworks, allowing municipalities and water boards to take up their role. The Empire has a role to play in raising awareness. Our question to the Minister and the Secretary of State is therefore whether they have signs that the municipalities and water authorities do not have sufficient instruments to deal with this. Do they have any signs that municipalities and water boards do not have enough of this on the retina? Finally, I would like to make one final point about the State real estate company. We believe that the government has a direct role to play in this. In particular, with regard to new construction of state real estate, but also renovation of it, the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf and its Rijksbouwmeester could still serve as an example in the cities. Does the Minister share this idea and, if so, how can this exemplary role be given extra form? So much for my first-term input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mr Ronnes, but you may stand still, because Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u30	Funny enough, in this context, we are very close to each other when it comes to the frameworks. I wonder whether the speaker sees the frameworks as non-binding, informative or binding. Can he qualify what those frameworks are?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u31	We will have to make sure that we do not throw rules over the wall again with the setting of frameworks, which restricts them in their freedom to deal innovatively with developments in the city. I think it would be better to raise awareness and ensure that municipalities and water boards, but also the inhabitants and developers in cities get the mindset to look not only fully at the footprint of the building, but also to take that environment with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u32	I agree with that, but I would like to know what the word 'framework' means in this context. I don't quite understand. What is that, "a framework"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u33	This does not mean that we are again burdening local authorities with additional obligations and regulations. This example has just been mentioned: are we going to have to set up schoolyards in a certain way? I think, on the contrary, that we should raise awareness among the local authorities, but that they themselves are dealing with the setting up of school squares. We need to have this dialogue and this movement in order in the Netherlands so that the local authorities, too, really understand the importance of including, for example, the green elements that have just been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u34	I have a question about the state real estate. You indicate that the government could really have a role in that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u35	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u36	...to ensure that buildings commissioned by the Empire are climate-proof. You're asking the Secretary of State for ideas on this. Do you have any ideas about that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u37	I think the attitude of the Empire should be to look at the surroundings of these buildings in the case of substantial investments in building maintenance and to see how the Empire can ensure that heat stress, which we are talking about today, is minimized. You won't be able to take that away as a Empire, but you can do your part. That will go better in some places than in others, but I'm sure you can do more there than you have done so far. Hence my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u38	Can you see that for the Rijksbouwbouwdienst we do have guidelines and clear frameworks for the number of buildings supplied, for example, with green roofs or with a different way of climate adaptation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u39	I think that would be a very detailed description of how we expect this to be technically resolved. You can also imagine that some buildings lend themselves very well to solar panels, for example. The question is whether you can make the combination with green roofs in roof constructions. So I'd like to leave that to the technicians who know it. I think it's too compelling to define what that should look like here. I would like to hear from the secretary how she intends to persuade the National Real Estate Company to bring along, perhaps more than now, that integral idea of climate adaptation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u40	Finalizing, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u41	Without specifically prescribing a technique, therefore, Mr Ronnes would be in favour of a directive to build state real estate climate-adaptively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u42	I haven't gotten there yet. I have just asked the Secretary of State how she thinks she can make a move in this respect with the National Real Estate Company. First of all, I would like to await the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr. Chairman. In the city centre of Amsterdam it can be 5 ̊C warmer than in the outdoor area. I do not know how many years this researcher from Wageningen has been trying to reach this conclusion, but I would like to commend him to the Nobel Prize. Let's face it, this man has solved the problems of our overcrowded inner cities at one stroke. Now they offer the most absurd prices for a home in the city centre of Amsterdam, but with this scientific breakthrough, that is of course a thing of the past. We will have to flee our inner cities massively to avoid that 250 hours a year of unpleasant heat and additional heat stress, especially because this apocalyptic climate warming can increase to 500 hours a year, to unbearable heat in 2050; 500 hours is more than 2 weeks. It is perfectly logical that we should have a debate on this because, of course, action must be taken on this as soon as possible. The PVV proposes that a crisis team be set up to ensure that people keep their heads down, otherwise things will go completely wrong. Perhaps this crisis team can start by informing themselves about how people in Madrid, New York, Tokyo and, more or less, all the major economic centres in the world are dealing with this, because there it is even more unpleasantly warm. Better yet, perhaps that crisis team can consult the people of Dubai or Las Vegas: how on earth can they survive 365 days of unpleasant heat a year? To conclude: let's at least start with the installation of a decent air conditioning system in all buildings in our inner cities, starting with the building of the Lower House. Before you know it, all this heat stress becomes too much for the people's representatives, they can't think clearly anymore and they're going to ask for very weird debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u44	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand the Secretary of State needs five minutes to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr. Chairman. It's nice to be back in your center shortly after the recess. I think it was Mr Laçin who said: we have a strange debate. I kind of agree with him. I'll also explain why. This issue, this problem that the Chamber has been discussing, is extremely important, without a doubt. We are committed to preventing climate change in our policies, but we will also have to do a great deal to deal with the consequences of climate change. The Netherlands has traditionally been a country that has adaptation in the genes. But in all your wisdom, you, the Chamber, decided shortly after the elections to declare the National Climate Adaptation Strategy controversial. So, in fact, you now have a subject on which you have actually offered me to remain silent. That would, of course, be lame. I'm not going to. However, I would like to point out that this may be a small point of review if you have a procedural meeting tomorrow. On this subject, however, we need to move forward. You have agreed with each other today, and you have agreed with me today that it is necessary to take concrete action. How big is the problem? A number of Members of Parliament have indicated that heat stress in vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, children, people at risk, such as those with cardiovascular disease and asthma, can lead to increased labour loss, an increase in disease and even early mortality. During the heat waves that hit Europe in 2003 and 2006, 1,400 and 1,000 people died more than normal in the Netherlands. The most recent heat wave in the Netherlands, in 2015, resulted in around 300 additional deaths. That's a big deal. The estimated damage to the Netherlands from heat stress, accumulated over the period 2013-2050, was estimated by Deltares at around 8 billion euros in 2012. That's really huge. And yes, I agree with Mr Van Aalst that it is very important that we work in a good climate in the Chamber, but some spokesmen sometimes need a little more cool for their hotheadedness. I do not, of course, mention people in particular. I would just like to point out that this debate is very serious and calls for a very serious approach. As the Chamber knows, this subject affects several policy areas. There is the area of Infrastructure and Environment. It is not just about the climate issue or the national climate adaptation strategy. It's also about the Delta programme. Of course we look at BZK when it comes to living, and for health to VWS. There is also nature. The green, animal welfare and agriculture have already been mentioned. There are many parties involved and coordination is important. It is conducted from the controversially declared NAS (National Climate Adaptation Strategy). Each department has a responsibility to have its own policy area in order. In future too, we as I and M will be happy to continue to play a coordinating role. If that's what we're given, I have to add. By the end of this year, the implementation programme of the Adaptation Strategy will be ready. We are, of course, waiting for the Chamber to deal with this. Large cities and urban areas are the most vulnerable in high heat. That is also what the investigation has shown. This has to do with the so-called heat island effect, which occurs in areas in cities that heat up extra because of their location and specific buildings. The speakers have explained all this in a visual way. In particular, there is a role for local authorities to prepare themselves and minimise the negative effects of heat stress. A number of spokesmen spoke about the position of local authorities. They differ from one approach to another. Mr Laçin and Mr Dijkstra said that this concerns the autonomy of local government. Let me just translate it into my own terms: we should not overrule the cities from The Hague, or roll out measures about the cities to take matters into our own hands. The other way around, Mrs Kröger felt that we should do this in a number of areas. With the Adaptation Strategy, we really opt for a model of cooperation and for facilitating and sharing knowledge. So we're not going to tell the cities from The Hague: you have to do it this way. We're not gonna go to school squares and tell them to look like sisters or anything. That is simply not the approach of this cabinet. I don't believe in that either. You can see big differences between cities. Some cities will also be better prepared than others. That is absolutely true, but that too is something that must be taken up by the Council in the local debate. However, we can increase attention and awareness. I will come back to the KNMI, but we can also share knowledge and expertise, not only in the Netherlands but also elsewhere in the world. We can also ensure that at least we have our own house literally and figuratively in order. That brings me to the question: what are we doing ourselves? I think it starts with that. Before you look at the other, you always have to start with yourself. As I said, we have a coordinating role. We facilitate parties, which we bring together, for example by organising so-called adaptation dialogues in the field of heat and health. Then we'll bring all the players in that field together. There are actions on the table, sometimes combined, of which we say: yes, we must give this a place in the National Adaptation Strategy; this must become part of it. We share knowledge; I have just mentioned that. We offer tools for mapping heat stress, such as heat maps, stress tests and the Climate Effect Atlas. There is also a new policy to be developed. Of course, I cannot anticipate the Spatial Adaptation Delta Plan. Mr Ronnes has made a furious attempt to tempt me to do so, but that is still in the secret documents for Prince's Day. For example, he should think of specific measures that are applied area-oriented in relation to, for example, measures to combat water pollution and drought. That's customization in our eyes. More green in the city and fewer stones, which provides cooling, more shade and more reception of rainwater are all examples that get a place in it. Those examples have just been mentioned in detail. I and M, of course, must have their own house in order. Think of the infrastructure, for example, where we also have to take into account the potential dangers of extreme heat. I'll just say a few words about the state buildings. We'll do a few things there, too. We are working on future predictions and scenarios, which are further refined. The world-renowned KNMI has a role in this. In short, we do a lot. Mr Ronnes and Mrs Kröger presented the National Real Estate Company. We are currently researching the degree of climate resistance of our own national buildings from I and M in collaboration with BZK and the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf. The first pilots will be launched soon. It really is a huge amount of buildings; you are not mistaken. We have the same policy objectives for our own buildings in terms of climate resilience as for other parties. Green roofs will be shown as one of the possibilities in the research process. However, this does not mean that every building can always be provided for in all circumstances. Sometimes that has to do with monumental demands. So there are limitations, but it's being looked at. A number of Members have asked about the actions and instruments. A fairly general question was whether, for example, we should change the rules. We are, as I said, working on the Spatial Adaptation Delta Plan. If it follows from that plan that regulatory adjustment is necessary, we will implement it either in current regulations or in the system of the Environment Act. That's all living right. That's set in a way you can find space to change things. The Environment Act and the associated regulations in themselves provide sufficient tools to enable cities to work on climate adaptation and combating heat stress, I say to Mrs Van Veldhoven. One can do this, for example, through the environmental vision. In this way, the subject can already be addressed in the planning process. The new environmental plan is also much wider than the current zoning plan. Climate adaptation and heat resistance are just part of that, so that's possible. Mr Ronnes asked whether the waterboards now have sufficient instruments. Yeah, and they're also very active. The three domes, the Union of Water Councils, the VNG and the people from the provinces, have jointly drawn up an investment agenda. Climate adaptation is one of the three major transitions to which they really want to pay attention. I am very positive and optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u46	The Secretary of State says that cities in the Environment Act and the environmental vision can already take a lot with them. Now the number of cities in the Netherlands that can really deal with heat stress in itself is clear. Does the Secretary of State have a special dialogue with these cities to draw their attention to this possibility? Now all these environmental visions are being prepared. It would be very nice if not only can it be taken, but also really. The Secretary of State can play an early role in raising awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u47	We are, of course, in very good contact with the VNG, as I said earlier. We also have impact projects, in which we are working with all kinds of stakeholders to ensure that awareness becomes really firmer. So that space is there, but the responsibility remains local. You can take a horse to the water, but you can't force it to drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u48	I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary of State that it is, of course, up to the cities themselves to make that translation. But it is good that they know very clearly that they can use this instrument. Perhaps the dialogue with the cities will be able to draw attention to this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yes, I also expect that when, in the autumn, on the road to dealing with the National Adaptation Strategy, the public debate, which raises awareness, also locally, will naturally emerge. You can see that there are cities that are way ahead. Others may not be ready yet, but the possibilities are there. Our role is to coordinate and facilitate, as I said. That also fits in with the fact that we are raising people's awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u50	I had a question about the state real estate. The Secretary of State says that it may not be possible on every building when it comes to historic buildings. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to set a standard for new real estate, new buildings commissioned by the Empire, green facades, green roofs or climate-adaptive construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yeah, but I gotta be honest with you, I'm not the chief building decision, so I don't just have that in my back pocket. The fact that we are doing this exercise with the government real estate organisation is because we are very keen to make that improvement, not only for new buildings, but also for existing ones. Of course, it is very important that we pay attention to this in new construction. Maybe I could give you our example on the Rijnstraat. We all ended up in a new building there, and I know that we have also paid very close attention to the circular nature of it all and to the energy labels. In that respect, you can see that it is indeed high on the agenda. This is easier for a new building than for example for this beautiful environment, because the old buildings attached to it may be asking for some other measures. There is no "one size fits all" approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u52	I am glad to hear that it is clearly on the agenda for new buildings. I hear as examples circular building and a climate label, but it is now specifically about heat stress in the city and that scientists indicate that green roofs or facades really care. My question to the Secretary of State is what are the possibilities for new construction in real estate to impose a standard on green roofs or green facades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u53	I don't feel free to say this this way, I really don't. It is partly the responsibility of BZK in the field of building legislation and state real estate. Then out of sympathy for you and your proposal, I would overrule that responsibility. I don't think that's wise. It's got the attention. I also believe that this is what we want to do, where it can be done, but I honestly do not think it is appropriate to bring a standard out of my pocket in this evening's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u54	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked about the impact projects. Fifteen were supported by I and M. Ten of them are ready. The others will come to fruition within a year. Two of them deal with the subject of heat, as stated in the letter of inquiry. We will, of course, also evaluate them. Then there is the progress of the City Deal Climate Adaptation, to which Mrs Van Veldhoven asked. It's going well. More and more municipalities want to join, share knowledge about climate adaptation, provide training and so on. We are very pleased and satisfied with that. Then I'll get to the subject of knowledge. Mr Dijkstra has talked about this in detail. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about the expertise centre. This will, of course, pay particular attention to climate adaptation. That's really a big deal for that center. We also share knowledge with other countries, for example Japan is one of the countries that contributes to this. So we work together internationally on this issue. I agree with Mr Dijkstra that more cooperation is needed with knowledge institutes and public authorities. He called it KNMI. Both within the framework of the Delta programme and in the implementation of the adaptation strategy, there is intensive cooperation. Think of the KNMI and RIVM, which are developing more and more detailed tools to get a better picture of heat stress. Indeed, companies also play an important role, because that is often where innovation comes from. We could really use that. The KNMI is currently in the process of giving more insight and attention, in order to identify the knowledge about extreme weather and to identify risks. It allows you to provide them, and you can also limit them. A so-called early warning centre is being set up for this purpose. Finally, I had Mrs van Veldhoven's question, which was supported by several from the Chamber, namely: is there any consideration of heat and cooling via water in the context of the energy transition? Yes, water can make a useful contribution to cooling, but also to heating buildings. It's got our attention. There's a green deal with the water boards. In addition, we looked at the opportunities for cooling and heating via water. Regional energy strategies, which are now being developed by a number of local authorities, also look at these possibilities. So this issue is certainly very important. Mr President, I hope that I have answered Members' questions as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u56	I'm just looking around, and I don't see any people trying to make another interruption. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr. Chairman. To Mr Van Aalst I would almost say: some like it hot. That does not apply to everyone, however. During the heat I occasionally saw older people who were really affected by the heat. We also know that there are still a lot of people coming into the cities. Then we have to think about how we can make sure those cities stay liveable. Of course, the primary responsibility for this lies with the cities. I noticed that this is also widely shared in the Chamber. We may still differ a bit about what we can do from The Hague, but at least what we can do is raise awareness about this issue, what instruments there are and how they can be used. I welcome the Secretary of State's answers on awareness, environmental vision and city deals. That all sounds very good. We look forward to handling the National Adaptation Strategy. I also welcome the role played by the KNMI in this. This is really a centre of knowledge that plays its role clearly in many areas, earthquakes, gas extraction and in such areas. I think we should be proud of that. I have a small question for the Secretary of State about heat from water. Is there sufficient link to the EZ-instrumentarium? Is this interest taken into account where it is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I have one minute, 52 seconds now, but here's the thing. Suppose we approach zoning plans or building decisions with the same no commitment as the VVD and the CDA do with climate adaptation plans? No one would want that. But on the other hand, on important issues such as climate adaptation plans, you can see that. That's weird. I also see that the Secretary of State is fully involved in the ideological march music of the idealists of the same VVD and CDA. They see it all working out with the non-binding frameworks of information and see the current plans as a step in the right direction, while the evaluation report indicates something quite different. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the 2016 National Climate Adaptation Strategy mentions that greening in the city is hampered by other goals;]] [[noting that the urgency for more green in the city is high;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a framework of interests with the objective of greening and other objectives to facilitate the identification and removal of barriers at regional decision-making level, and to require this framework of interests to be included in local plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. I would like to make one small comment. The Secretary of State implied that together with the VVD, among other things, we would like to place everything in the municipalities. We believe that the municipalities and the colleges have a responsibility in this, but so do we. It's a global problem. So we are certainly in favour of seeing what we can do about this at national level with the municipalities. We do not necessarily have to be binding, but we do have to take our responsibilities into account. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you for that clarification. Mr Dijkstra waives a second term. Mrs Kröger would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. Given the urgency of climate change, we still see an active role of the government, including to protect citizens. That is why we have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM already advised in 2011 that the government should be more directing in the construction of green roofs by adjusting the Building Decision;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Building Decision in such a way as to encourage the construction of green roofs and facades in new buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas green roofs and facades can make a major contribution to the quality of life of the city and have a positive impact on, for example, air quality and water pollution;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate an obligation to use the roofs of new office buildings and new building districts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-152]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u62	And finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u63	Is it a short motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u64	A very short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to place green roofs and facades on buildings of the government wherever possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr Dijkstra has another question. Mrs Kröger, would you mind walking back to the chair?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u66	I get another answer to the question I asked in the first term. I asked how energy efficient the GroenLinks building is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr Dijkstra, you are an impatient man. I wish you had such impatience in all matters relating to climate change. That would matter! I will return to you, Mr Dijkstra. I made a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u68	The Secretary of State said it very well. Before you look at someone else, look what you're doing. I looked it up: Oudegracht 312. On Google maps you can see it very well. It's a monumental building. But no green on the roof, no solar panels on the roof and, if I understand the messages correctly, just glass. So GroenLinks: please take a look at yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr Dijkstra, my motion is clear. It's about new construction. The Secretary of State has indicated the possibilities for a combination of green roofs and solar panels in new construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u70	I happen to know that there are a lot of solar panels on the roof of the GroenLinkskantoor. But that aside! The next speaker will be Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. Chairman. Short. With interest we will look at the content of the Deltaplan Spatial Adaptation that we can expect in not too long time. I am very content with the reaction of the Secretary of State to the approach of the Rijksbouwbouwdienst to look at the current situation in the climate adaptation and what can happen. I am curious to see how we as a Chamber are informed about progress and how we are showing citizens, as a kind of example, how the built environment can be tackled to contribute to, among other things, the fight against heat stress. The Secretary of State has indicated that the water sheep are very active. I sometimes hear from grumpy waterboard drivers that some municipalities don't go that fast. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the cooperation between these water authorities and municipalities? Is there sufficient progress in this and do they have sufficient tools to enable them to do their job? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Ronnes. Then I look at Mr Van Aalst. He's dropping his second term. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State. She needs two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u73	I'll resume the meeting. The Secretary of State is ready to begin her second term and respond to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr. Chairman. I have two questions and four motions to deal with. The first question is from Mrs Van Veldhoven whether there is a link with Economic Affairs in the instruments and all the possibilities there I suspect are also subsidy possibilities around cooling and using heat. The answer is that there is indeed intensive cooperation with Economic Affairs. It is also important to establish a link between climate adaptation and energy transition. The logic also requires that all of this be so. Mr Ronnes asked for cooperation between the water authorities and the municipalities. Our experience is that this is getting better but indeed not good enough everywhere. That's right. Mr Ronnes has also asked about the outcome of the National Real Estate Company and everything that is happening about making buildings climate-proof. This is also largely the subject of the motions that have been tabled. So I shall come back to that in reply to Mrs Kröger's motions. Mr Van Raan's motion for a resolution 151 calls on the Government to come up with a framework of interests with the objective of greening and the other objectives to facilitate the identification and removal of barriers at regional decision-making level. He says I walk on a certain music. I also feel very comfortable with the way in which Mr Laçin has just clarified what he expects and what he does not expect for cities: room for local initiative, but where responsibility is also taken from the administration of the country. That's how I look at it. When it comes to running on a particular music, I have to say that Mr Van Raan is a little ahead of it. In the end, I shall also come to Mrs Kröger's motions that you ask me to do something, but we have not yet reached that stage. If you decide tomorrow to stop declaring the national climate adaptation strategy controversial and simply to treat it, it would really be worth a drink. We will then be able to work on the development programme and you will have it at the end of this year. This gives you clarity about what we do, for example, with the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf about the analysis of the climate resistance of all state buildings. The whole impact analysis must then show whether the desire to do much more on green roofs and facades should be further stimulated, where this can be done, what its financial impact is and whether you should perhaps do something in regulation. Both Mr Van Raan and Mrs Kröger with their three motions are now in the process of forcing something 'forbidden' from which the Chamber itself has said 'put it on ice', so it is time to do nothing now. So I would like to go further, but then you must also have the patience to receive that analysis from the National Real Estate Company and, on that basis, decide what we need to do. I know that when it comes to climate, everyone always wants speed. This has just turned out to be the case in the rather witty debate between Mrs Kröger and Mrs Dijkstra. I'm also from the tempo department, but I can't go any faster than fast. I just need that data to make a decision like that. That is why I would like to advise against any motions that have been tabled. The alternative is that you keep them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u75	That's a very short route. I look forward to hearing Mrs Kröger's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u76	The Secretary of State states that there is still a lot to be done and that impact assessments and the like still need to be done, while RIVM has already indicated in 2011 that it would be a good idea and has also called for green roofs to be included in the Building Decision. So apart from the National Climate Adaptation Strategy, the inclusion of green roofs for a lot of reasons, such as fine dust, health and viability, is a proposal of the RIVM in the Building Decision. So what analysis is needed to just do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u77	This is actually meant to ask enlightening questions about the advice given in the motions, but I would like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u78	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u79	But since the Secretary of State was already ready to answer, I am now giving her the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u80	Yes, Chairman, you ask, we turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u81	So it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u82	The answer is very simple: because it might be a very good idea. Personally, I can imagine a lot of that, but you must know what you are doing, where that has an effect and how you might want to do it. Of course, it is not just about the green roofs and facades that make buildings climate-proof. That really is a much broader story. We will certainly have to take steps in this direction, but in the right order. It is precisely because this was advised at the time that there have of course been movements, including in the state service. It has been thought: hey, we have to do something, because these buildings need to become climate-proof and we need to take steps to do that. But then it really makes sense to take stock of what we're talking about and what it means if you do, before you set a rule and then look at what the consequences are. It's called driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr Van Raan also has a question on the motion he has tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yes, I have a clarifying question. The Secretary of State actually says I'm out of line for the music. I don't want to tempt the Secretary of State to say what's in that new plan. But I am quite prepared to hold on to this or withdraw it if the Secretary of State can make a commitment that climate-adaptive measures and anti-hit-test-resist measures from the government should somehow be given some kind of mandatory framework. If she can agree with us, I'd consider it. That is the clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u85	But I can't say in advance that I'm gonna make a commitment if I don't know exactly what I'm gonna make and why I'm gonna do it. What is really needed here is almost a kind of picture of what making all buildings from the Empire climate-proof means and what the challenge is. What, for example, should we invest in this? Where can't it be? Where could it be? Is there a need for regulatory adjustment, for example? I am not putting a taboo on that either in advance. For me, it is not an ideological debate at the moment, but rather a pragmatic one. Because if you want to take one of these steps, doesn't it start with knowing what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u86	In my view, Mr Van Raan would like to make one final attempt at approximation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u87	I appreciate that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u88	Yeah, I'd love to. Could the Secretary of State agree with us that it is the same as with planning? As far as the content is concerned, nothing is forced, but the considerations and the steps you have to take to make a zoning plan and eventually to approve, the whole process, is compelling. That's not noncommittal. It is not a question of: we do some information and then there is a zoning plan. So I mean that climate-adaptive plans are given the same status and the same prescriber status as zoning plans. Does the Secretary of State see that parallel? Does she see that that is actually the same thing, that it should be the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u89	But then Mr Van Raan asks me again, through another, otherwise intelligent detour, whether I would like to make a commitment now. I can't do that right now. However, I do think that the Environmental Act now provides the perfect opportunity for local authorities to adopt a much broader approach to, for example, their zoning plan than sec that based on spatial planning considerations. In fact, the intention is that you also include climate adaptation and its effects in your environmental vision. But we have also laid down in the legislation that we are not going to impose from the Empire how cities come up with that vision. That's what local democracy is for, to correct if things don't go well. But we don't do that from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-10.u91	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next week. I thank the Secretary of State for coming. I would also like to thank the people who have followed this debate.
