ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and give Mr Markuszower the floor on behalf of the PVV as the first questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am only a member of this House of Representatives for six months. In that little 26 weeks I have had to tell you, Minister, almost ten times that the TBS system is a terrible system. It's terrible because life-threatening criminals aren't locked up by you, but above all they get a lot of leave. Because if 1,500 tbs in the Netherlands are allowed on leave 40,000 times a year, then Tbs is not a penalty, but a leave system, a holiday paradise for the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands. The Netherlands thinks dangerous criminals are punished, but they are actually sent on leave by this minister, with the support of all parties here in the Chamber, except my party, the PVV. For almost ten times in six months, I have pointed out the dangers to you, Minister. Because in that half year things have gone wrong many times. And today we're back here again. I'm gonna ask you a question. You're gonna answer me some questions. But you and I both know that we will soon be facing each other again if you don't just lock up all those scary criminals and stop letting them go on leave. Last Sunday we hit again. A 22-year-old woman was seriously assaulted and possibly raped by a T.B.S. criminal who wasn't in prison, but on leave. Not just on leave, no, on unguided leave. How do you make it up? Unaccompanied leave! My questions to the Minister are as follows. Why did this criminal qualify for leave? Why was this unguided leave? Is the message that the TBs clinic was trying to cover up this rape or assault? And if so, was that in your order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower starts explaining his discontent with the TBS system and then asks me about a serious crime that took place in Groningen last Sunday. I'd like to begin by expressing my condolences to the victim of last Sunday's crime. A suspect has been taken into custody, and we are now investigating the exact situation. As soon as there is a charge, it is customary for this to be brought out in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is therefore no question of secrecy. I find Mr Markuszower's suggestion that I myself should have ordered secrecy scandalous. Then the TBS system as such. In the Netherlands, it is not the Minister who imposes TBs. Mr Markuszower knows that too. The Netherlands is a rule of law. In the Netherlands, therefore, the judge imposes penalties and can also impose TBs. Tbs can take much longer than prison time. There's no way TBs is popular with criminals. There is, in fact, a real possibility that the judge, who reviews biennially, always comes to the conclusion that there is no reason for release. So it can take a very long time. I am very attached to the fact that in the Netherlands the judge does this and not the minister. If Mr Markuszower's party wished to withdraw from the law, it could draw up an initiative law. That seems to me to be extremely unwise. Tbs is an instrument that has great value in addition to prison time, because it allows people to be treated, but also to keep people who prove to be untreatable from society for a long time. It would be very unfortunate if the instrument were no longer available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister continues to argue for the maintenance of the TBS system, a system which mainly monitors the many engagements. We have tabled a motion, which no one supported, not even the minister's party, to abolish the TBS system. Can the Minister, if he wants to maintain this system, at least in the meantime ensure that dangerous criminals no longer go on leave and certainly not on unguided leave? The Minister does express his condolences, and of course we all do, but the Minister continues to take the risk of a subsequent victim if these engagements are maintained. Two: I assume from the Minister that there is no cover-up, but I ask him what the policy is if there are incidents involving criminals who have been on leave and then committed a violent crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	I answered the last question. I have indicated that as soon as there is a charge, this will be communicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	But what is the policy of communication of the clinic?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	No, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	That's what I reported. As soon as there's a charge, it'll be published. Then leave of absence. Part of the TBS scheme is that there is the possibility of accompanied or unaccompanied leave. This will be examined in advance by a committee of experts. I have already indicated that once every two years the judge checks whether the TBs can be extended or not. The judge can also decide that this is not the case. It's a good thing a judge decides. If Mr Markuszower thinks it is as serious as he says it is, then he should not come forward with a weak motion, of which more than 3,000 are submitted a year, but with an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	I understand the minister in my house wants to tell me how to do my job, but that aside. The Minister continues to propagate the TBS system. Minister, you continue to protect criminals at the expense of innocent people. I ask you to stop engaged and not hide behind committees or judges. I'm gonna ask you one more question. In addition to hiding behind committees or judges, can you not also do something to stop these engagements, at least the unaccompanied ones? And can you ask your own party to support my motion for a resolution, or my initiative law, if I do so in order to stop tbs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	A minister shall comply with the laws in force. I do not intend to put an end to the TBS system, because I think it is a very useful addition to Dutch criminal law. Once again, if Mr Markuszower wishes to take an initiative on this point, he can submit a law and submit it to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
