ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have submitted to the Chamber two lists of decisions to make possible a controversial declaration of any legislative proposals pending before the First Chamber. The A list contains the legislative proposals ready for plenary consideration. The B list contains the legislative proposals that are at the stage of written examination. Following an inventory in the political groups, I have concluded that for none of the legislative proposals listed on the lists there is a majority of political groups proposing to declare legislative proposals controversial or to support requests for a controversial declaration. My proposal is therefore that none of the legislative proposals before the First Chamber should be declared controversial. Mrs Faber has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year we witnessed a strong social debate on the adoption of the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. The fact that the citizens were serious is demonstrated by the fact that they themselves took the lead in forcing a referendum on this issue, an achievement of awesomeness. To annoy the Prime Minister, a "no" rolled out of the ballot box. It seemed for a moment that the opposition parties at that time in the Lower House wanted to narrow the gap between politics and the citizen. They all voted in favour of the Van Bommel motion (34270, no. 11), in which a repeal law was advocated. If this motion were to be voted on in the newly constituted House of Representatives, it would be brilliant. There would also be no majority in favour of the approval law, despite the rotating parties GroenLinks and D66, who willingly let themselves be sent into the forest with a meaningless rag that was sold as an annex to the treaty. It's empty! If the parties' voting behaviour is consistent and this is extended to the Upper Chamber, there is no majority in this House for the Act of Approval of the Association Treaty. In order to take account of the outcome of the referendum, taking into account the division of seats in the States General, the PVV Group proposes to freeze the Act of Approval of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine by declaring it controversial. Negotiations on the new coalition are under way. The Association Agreement will certainly review the positions previously expressed by the various parties in public. It is therefore a question of which parties Prime Minister Rutte wants to follow over his goat path to Ukraine. The question is also what our colleagues in the CDA group in the Senate will do. That is why the PVV Group is calling for a roll-call vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Does one of the other Members wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u4	A roll-call vote has been requested. It's not quite common. Unfortunately, the request was not announced in advance either. However, a request for a roll-call vote shall be accepted. There will therefore be a roll-call vote on the controversial explanation of legislative proposal 34669. Before we do that, I shall first ask whether there are explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u5	I have a point of order. It is customary for roll-call votes to be requested a week in advance so that groups can ensure that all the members of the political groups who wish to vote can be present. So if the PVV is asking for a roll-call vote today, it is only logical next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u6	A roll-call vote may be requested at any time. I understand your request, but when I look around, I see that the room is full, except for the few people who are not present because of illness or stay outside the country. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u7	The PVV Group will have no problem with it if it becomes a week later, so if the vote is next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u8	It is indeed customary for a roll-call vote to be announced a week in advance, but in this case we have no objection if the roll-call vote is taken immediately. I think it is important for the government to be clear as soon as possible whether or not the First Chamber will declare this issue controversial. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, therefore, we are going to vote by roll call today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mrs Jorritsma was, I believe, just a little earlier than Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u10	The same applies to the VVD fraction. We have no objection to it, but I would like to point out that the good practice that we have in this house should, of course, be applied for one week in advance. For the rest, I have no problem voting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u11	Let's not stretch it unnecessarily. The vote can now be taken. It is not neat of the PVV Group not to announce this earlier, but we should not forget this for another week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u12	Our group also wants clarity as soon as possible. We too regret that this process has been chosen. It has not been announced before, not just at the College of Seniors, so I do hope that this will not be an example for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u13	The Group of the Party of European Socialists also deplores the fact that this is an out-of-the-box situation, but we have no objection to voting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u14	Our group also has no objection to a roll-call vote now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u15	The clerk is waiting for a voting list, because we have not been able to prepare it. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. If it is customary for all of us to indicate whether or not we want to vote, the SGP Group has no objection to voting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u17	The same applies to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-eerstekamer-3.u18	As I have just said, it is customary, as has been said by several speakers, to report it in good time when a political group wants a roll-call vote. That could have happened in the Seniors' College just before this meeting. It also means that the voting list still needs to be prepared, because it is not here now. Here comes the list. According to the Rules of Procedure, a member may request a roll-call vote at any time. That's what's happened now. I heard everybody right. We are going to vote by roll call, but I say to Mrs Barth that it should not become a habit to deal with this possibility in this way. It is very good for the parties to know in advance that a roll-call vote is going to take place. In this case, we can achieve that vote immediately, because the sitting is here in maximum composition, with the exception of the few absentees I mentioned. We are now going to vote by roll-call on the controversial declaration of legislative act 34669, on the entry into force of the Act of 8 July 2015 approving the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, on the Official Journal of the European Union 2015, No. 315. I suggest we do that now.
