ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	We have come to the answers of the government. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Bouali, Mr Azarkan, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Dam, and Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mrs Arissen. The room is enriched today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	I'm Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	Did I forget Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	You are looking at me, but Mr Van Dam has indeed made his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	Sorry. That is, of course, the problem with new Members of Parliament. I have to get to know them all, when I was just about to say that I enjoyed the speakers, who are an enrichment for the Chamber. The division between Mr Asscher and myself will be such that Mr Asscher will answer the questions about labour market and education. The latter, of course, is as much as possible, because another colleague should actually do so. And I'll answer the questions in my field. Before I go into the specific questions I have asked, I will begin by saying that discrimination is very reprehensible, and it is not for nothing Article 1 of the Constitution............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Not an evening goes by or we see the most horrible expressions on all continents of people who even stand by each other's lives because they both think they adhere to the true religion, have the good skin color or belong to the good tribe. Unfortunately, it seems very deep in the human genes to make a sharp distinction between us and them and, even worse, to translate that often into violence. The central task of the government is to ensure that people can live their lives in security and freedom. That is all the more reason to ensure that, along all the routes mentioned by the Chamber, education, information, meeting and, where necessary, the sharp arm of criminal law and punishing, we take action against the unfortunately deeply rooted tendency to discriminate, so that we can live together in peace and freedom. Last weekend's incidents, which I was allowed to discuss with you during Question Time, show how much this issue is topical in the Netherlands and demands our constant attention. I shall begin with Mr Van Dijk. He asked how the cabinet dealt with the Marcouch motion asking for an integral approach to discrimination. This motion has also been the cause of a government-wide National Action Programme against Discrimination, which was presented in January 2016. Mr Plasterk took the lead. The Action Programme covers virtually all policy areas, including mine and my colleague present here today, concrete actions and objectives to tackle discrimination along the whole line, starting with prevention and awareness. We ensure good cooperation between all parties involved and a good, local approach. At that level, the problems and therefore the solutions arise. We also support knowledge and research. Very recently, the Chamber received a progress report on this Action Programme from Mr Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	This is the answer to the questions of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	Which Mr. Van Dijk? We've got two. It might be good to know who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	First Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	That is Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	I keep the order of the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	Yes. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	By the way, I do not give a qualification to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	No, but it is relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	They're just as sweet to me, especially in this debate. I am just talking about Mr Van Dijk again. As soon as I get to another Mr Van Dijk, I will report it. There have been other speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	No, it's really relevant to know which Mr. Van Dijk you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	The first name is also relevant. From the PvdA it is Mr Gijs van Dijk and from the SP it is Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	For the Acts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr Gijs van Dijk asked if I am prepared to introduce higher maximum penalties. As Mr Van Dijk undoubtedly knows, Mr Van Dijk, we are now in a situation in which the cabinet is decommissioned. Any question about what I think of a change of law leads to the answer that it is not obvious that this cabinet will come up with a change of law. If I interpret the question in a broader way and wonder if higher penalties would add much, I doubt that for two reasons. Significant penalties can be imposed for both insult and discrimination as well as for the ill-treatment that unfortunately is often associated with it. In both cases, you're talking about a maximum sentence of several years. As I pointed out at Question Time, not only does the Public Prosecutor's Office use the line to prosecute standard if the case is provable, but it also calls for an extra high level of punishment for its discriminatory character. Again, this cabinet will not come up with a legislative change. The added value of this is doubtful. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked for a reflection on the PvdA's initiative law on sexual harassment in the street. That initiative bill just came back from the Council of State. As is well known, my officials are happy to support every initiative law and therefore also this one. However, I think it is only right that the cabinet should react when the law is also dealt with here in the Chamber in its final version. At that point, I can give a substantiated response. As Mr Van Dijk knows, there has been contact with municipalities, for example, about how they look at this in practice. But it seems to me to be pure, and this is also due to the many work that has been put into the initiative law, to go into this in detail at the time when that law is being dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	I thank the Minister for answering the first questions. Is the Minister prepared to respond to this, as in answering questions about higher criminal penalties in the event of discriminatory violence? We know that it is a big problem that women are often addressed in some neighbourhoods and get comments thrown to their heads. How does the Minister feel about that? Could criminalising that kind of sexual harassment be a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	I find chasing and naming women incredibly annoying and low-by-ground. On the question of whether you're dealing with criminal law properly, I'm reluctant. There's a lot to be expected from criminal justice. I hope that the new Members of Parliament will show a critical mind at the palette of possibilities for dealing with crime, nuisance and crime and when criminal law is the right route or when other methods should be used. My first reaction, but I don't want to suggest that we're not going to look at the law very seriously, is that I think criminal law is a rather heavy and complex tool to deal with this. Criminal law is a heavy tool, because it means that the government can use the swordpower, as we call it. That is why criminal law, fortunately, has a huge number of safeguards. This also means a huge burden for all the organisations that have to implement it. My first response to your question, a little challenged, is that it's not an easy route, but that we're going to take a serious look at it. Mr Bouali asked about information on the possibility of reporting and declaration of discrimination. A multi-annual campaign is currently under way, entitled "Striking discrimination'. That campaign has targeted campaigns under that overarching title. A campaign focused on labour market discrimination and on online discrimination. These campaigns are always open to reporting and reporting and emphasise the importance of this. For example, there is a website discrimination.nl as a low-threshold route for reporting discrimination. Mr Bouali is right that this is an important point, but we are taking concrete action. Mr Bouali, like Mrs Voortman, asked how we would ensure that the willingness to report is maintained and, preferably, increased, knowing that the number of final convictions is limited. Mr Van Dijk, Mr Jasper, and Mr Segers also asked about these convictions. Let me first deal with that difference between reports and convictions. In order to be convicted of discrimination, the fact of criminal law must, of course, be clearly proven. In practice, it appears that in a limited number of cases the Public Prosecutor has hard evidence for the discrimination component, and therefore an offender. Unfortunately, that often happens screaming, half drunk, walking by. These figures do not include the convictions that may be made for the fact of open violence related to it. That is also a terrible fact, but if the element of discrimination is not provable, in a number of cases the element of open violence can be proved. I already indicated that in the case of discrimination, if the evidence is available, the Public Prosecutor's line is that there is standard prosecution. That's really different from other crimes. How do we make sure people stay prepared to file a report? We do this by constantly drawing attention to it with the information campaigns. There is also this attention in education. Mr Asscher will answer the question. In Question Time, too, I indicated that in recent years the police have made a great deal of effort to raise awareness among policemen and women about the importance of reporting discrimination. The police internally have a network of gays and lesbians who simply work with the police, but are available from their own experience to support people who want to report specific violence against gays and lesbians, to ensure that the report becomes more accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	I thank the Minister for his explanation. Can he promise to inform the Chamber about the increase in reporting? We'll have some insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	The Court is informed annually about the Action Plan against discrimination. In this context, the Court receives annual figures. Soon there will be another report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	The Minister indicated that these 9 convictions from 1,500 cases were cases in which discrimination was proven, but that this did not mean that there could not still be convictions for, for example, violence. Does the Minister have figures on cases where violence and discrimination have been reported? And can he tell us how many times that led to a conviction for assault?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	No, I don't have those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's too bad. In his contribution, Mr Hiddema asked whether the quality of the complaints or whether they were satisfactory if they lead to so few convictions. Is there anything to be said about that? Is it possible that if you do things differently in the preliminary trial, that leads to more convictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	I am sure to say something about that, but Mr Hiddema had an impressive speech but not so many questions. I would be sorry if I did not answer any of the questions he has put to me in his direction. That would be a mistake for Mr Hiddema. Mrs. Voortman also asked about the stop forms. As Mrs Voortman knows, serious research has been carried out into the pros and cons of stop forms. On this basis, it has been concluded that it is really a very heavy burden on the policemen on the street and that the benefits are very doubtful. I really see it as my job to prevent policemen and women from doing too many administrative tasks. There is a good reason for every task, but it should not be so much that it becomes a huge tax, which means that the police people are less and less entitled to what they like to do, as they say time and time again: to walk on the streets, to hear what lives and to intervene in good time. I am therefore not in favour of returning to the decision not to start with stop forms. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked about the prosecution of Sylvana Simons. Next week there will be a trial in which a large number of suspects will be held accountable. In November, the Public Prosecutor arrested a man in response to the rather gruesome video made about Mrs Simons. That man confessed, too. He too will be subpoenaed. In short, the prosecution is in full swing, and luckily so. Jasper van Dijk also asked if the police are adequately equipped. I just indicated that there are important, valuable activities of Pink in Blue. In addition, a training course has been launched in which the basic teams go on course. The Police College has started to pay more attention to the issue of discrimination. A new framework of action has been established to allow agents to make good choices around selecting. This is about the discussion about ethnic profiling, which is regularly discussed. The police now have an online app that allows agents on the streets to request information about suspects via the iPhone, so that they can see much more precisely who they are looking for. And as the Chamber knows, we are in the process of introducing bodycams, which can also be seen afterwards what the suspect's performance was and what the police officer's performance was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	I can imagine that the kind of things that the Minister is now referring to are good for improving the culture within the police, for example when it comes to tackling homo-discrimination or homo-violence. But does the Minister share my view that it can also be purely a matter of capacity? There is now a lot of scepticism in people who say: I can make a report or a report, but yes, the police are not doing anything about it. Maybe that's not true at all, but it's the perception of a lot of people. Does the Minister share the view that we can also improve this by investing in blue in the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	I know that there is a desire at many parties to invest in blue on the street. I'm glad to see that. Here too, however, while we are standing here, a new coalition agreement is being negotiated in another chamber. There, parties will put their proposals for more blue on the street. In the meantime, I have been given extra money in the last budget. I can also use that well, but the outlook is really for the negotiating parties to form the basis for a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	It is, in itself, correct for the Minister to state that there are formation negotiations in progress. The point is that formations can last for a very long time and that we can all be convinced of the urgency here. That is why I use the Minister a little, with permission, to address the Chamber as well: how many weeks or months are we going to wait for that formation, when we all feel that more effort is needed for the police? I hope for support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	That's not a question for me, because I'm not sitting at the formation table. The last time I was there, it was pretty fast, but there was also commentary on that. So I'm just gonna wait and see. I come to a question raised by both Jasper van Dijk and Mr Segers. They asked me to respond to the German proposal to impose heavy fines on Internet providers and other IT companies that offer a platform for discriminatory expressions. The German law is very fresh. I'm definitely going to study it. I can say in advance that this law raises a number of intriguing questions and tensions, for example with regard to classical freedom of expression. The freedom of printing press is a somewhat dated concept, but the concept of Internet freedom is, of course, very related to that. So what is happening in Germany is very intriguing, but I really want to see what lessons we can learn in the Netherlands. In advance, even if Mr Van Dijk is going to challenge me again, I really cannot give a ruling on the desirability of such a law, because this really affects very fundamental fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	Before you proceed, Mr Segers has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	There are also some simple parts in the proposal or in the law of our eastern neighbours. For example, there is the possibility of protesting quickly, in order to be able to ring the bell quickly. Those are elements that work a bit faster and less affect freedom of expression, but lower the threshold to be able to complain quickly and take action in discrimination and hate speech. Is the Minister prepared to look at that kind of low-hanging fruit as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'd like to look at the whole law. Mr Segers is undoubtedly right that there are parts that have fewer hooks and eyes and parts that bring more with them. But since I haven't made that battle yet, I just haven't been able to do it yet. I don't think it's careless to say now: maybe we do and we don't do it yet. The choices for what we do and what we don't do must be well-founded. Mr Segers and Mr Azarkan asked whether the prosecution of perpetrators of discrimination and the imposition of community penalties on those responsible could take account of the fact that they were convicted of discrimination. The gentlemen also asked if we could work on mediation between victim and perpetrator. Both are happening already. In community service, for example, a mandatory visit to the Anne Frank House is sometimes imposed. The anti-discrimination provisions regularly offer to organise contact between the perpetrator and the victim. That is not part of the staff, but it is part of the satisfaction of the victim and the awareness of the perpetrator. Mr Segers asked how to deal with speaking choirs in football. He also asked about the contacts we have with the KNVB. Yes, there are. In addition, the agreement is that the clubs are primarily responsible. Next, the responsibility goes to the KNVB via the referee. An arbitrator can decide to strike a match. The local authority may then act. Here, too, criminal law is once again the final piece. People can be convicted, and are also convicted, when they make seriously discriminatory statements on football courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yet we see every time in competition reports that sometimes a whole or half stadium, or at least apparently a substantial part of the stadium, engages in terrible speaking choirs. We are now talking about a broad approach. Wouldn't it be a good thing if the cabinet agreed to sit down with the KNVB again to put the points on the i again? It starts with maintaining the most basic standards of decency, doesn't it? That starts in very public places, like in the stadium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	But I don't want to suggest that that doesn't happen. Mr Segers is right to say that the problem has not disappeared. I also know him well enough, I believe, to know that he may be dreaming, but realizes that it will never completely disappear. His ambition, however, is that it should at least be substantially reduced. I share that ambition. I can promise Mr Segers that we will consult regularly and continue to consult with the KNVB, but I do not want to give the impression that I should go there specifically because otherwise we will not discuss this with the KNVB. I will make sure that the consultations are maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	Let's agree that this will come up as soon as the cabinet is back on the table with the KNVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	It has happened quite recently, I believe in Utrecht. Once again, the most terrible things were called. And we play soccer and watch and act like nothing's going on, while something is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yes. I will. Mr Azarkan asked whether the increase in figures was caused by a real increase in the number of cases of discrimination or by better registration. We can't pull that apart properly. If our information campaigns, which Mr Bouali asked for, are successful, I have great hope that they are, because we are paying a great deal of attention to this in itself must be seen in higher figures. That's a reporting effect. However, I cannot filter out it, at least not from this type of research, or is behind it that it is actually more common. That brings me to Mr Hiddema, who asked very widely what the added value of all these reports is. The subject of discrimination is incredibly important. In the last elections, too, many parties have made it one of their spearheads. Combating discrimination is a constitutional task. It is not for nothing that I began my speech with a broader view of the fact that, unfortunately, discrimination is very rooted in human nature and can give rise to terrible excesses. This justifies the attention and, if necessary, action of the government. If you want to do that responsibly, you need to collect data. Mr Hiddema is right in saying that there is quite a difference in the quality of data and that you have to take a critical look at what data says. A single report from someone that something happened is less harsh than a criminal conviction. At the same time, the fact that you can recognize patterns offers you the opportunity to do more targeted research and take more informed measures. So I think it is very important that we continue to do this research, but also that we continue to look at what we are actually reading in this research with Mr Hiddema's critical eye. I come now to Mr Van Dam, who has actually asked the same question, namely how we can explain the increase. Again, I can't really separate which part is a factual increase and which part is a reporting effect. Mr Van Dam also asked whether we could report on discrimination on a quarterly basis. He referred to the fact that the police report internally every two weeks. I have already said that the cabinet reports annually; in May it will report on 2015. Mr Van Dam would prefer to receive the report a little earlier, but for this report data should be collected from very different organisations: police, anti-discrimination provisions and the Human Rights College. For proper reporting, it seems reasonable to me that this should be done in May. I would not recommend quarterly reporting, because here too, what I have just said about the pressure on police officers is true. Reports are crucial for the Chamber to do its job properly, and they are also crucial for me and my officials. However, you must always consider how much time is required of the people who have to do the work. I know that Mr Van Dam has an impressive history in the criminal justice chain, so he will recognize this. How much do you ask of the people who have to produce the reports and how much does that add? In my opinion, the balance between additional taxes and added value is not positive in the case of quarterly reports. I would ask Mr Van Dam to look closely at the annual report in May and then consider whether it does not provide sufficient guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	It is indeed my experience that you would rather report less than more. However, I fear that annual reporting will become a piece of art that comes to us as a kind of annual report. I am in favour of more frequent and more aggregated figures being available. We are all right to be very concerned about the incidents that have occurred, but at the same time we see that the policy with 48 measures is quite fine and that everything is happening. I regret that we will not be able to catch up on this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	I understand Mr Van Dam's wish. In May there will be a comprehensive report and I ask him to weigh it up again. The question could then be raised as to whether there might be more available, but it could also be considered what it will add in practice if we do so more often. Mr Van Dam also asked whether it would be possible to draw up a declaration protocol on discrimination. At the moment, there is a framework for action for the police, which describes how to act in the event of discrimination. For the Public Prosecutor's Office there is an indication of discrimination that regulates the declarations there. In my opinion, there are the protocols that Mr Van Dam is asking for. I have listened to Mrs Yeşilgöz with great pleasure, but she has not asked me any specific questions. The same applies to the ladies Van Brenn and Arissen. I would like to give the floor to Mr Asscher for the second term. I ask the House to allow the second term to be dealt with only with Mr Asscher, because I would like to go to work this afternoon in a security region. I'm a little late, but I'd love it if I could still join you there. I have failed Mr De Graaf. He already knows the answer to his question, because he asked me the same question as he asked me during Question Time last Tuesday, namely how I feel about taking up Dutch nationality with people of dual nationality. I also indicated that we have that legal possibility in the case of terrorist offences because they are directed against the State of the Netherlands, i.e. against state security, which is therefore directly linked to nationality, but that this does not make sense in the case of crimes, no matter how terrible they are, related to discrimination. As far as high penalties are concerned, I have the same answer as the one I gave to Mr Gijs van Dijk, namely that a outgoing cabinet does not come up with legislative changes, but that I do not think it is obvious to do so in this area either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I had another interruption, which means that the Minister has a little longer work to do. Moreover, the second term can, of course, only take place with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Last year one or more disgusting letters were sent to about thirty mosques. The Minister of Security and Justice sent a letter last week on the conclusion of the case; no unsub was found. There were about 30 mosques involved. There were very terrible things in those letters, such as swastikas and references to the Third Reich. That's disgusting. Now that case was played very big in the media. Minister Asscher visited a mosque two weeks later to talk about it, but the fire is slowly extinguished. I would like the Minister to share with the Chamber the information, if necessary anonymised, of the police report but also the information on the offender profile that has been established. As far as I am concerned, it would not be possible for us to deal first with a very big case which is being blown up and perhaps afterwards it turns out that it is all not true. I'm gonna have a really bad feeling about it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	I am afraid I must disappoint Mr De Graaf. I cannot share information about this as a minister in individual prosecution cases, whatever the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	Can the Minister then give a different view of what has actually been going on? We are dealing with something that has been played out with a visit by the Minister, with a lot of press attention and with 30 mosques, all of which apparently showed the same letter. There was no zip code on the address. Have there been even 30 letters? Have there been at least 30 mosques written down? What's the perpetrator's profile? Isn't there information that can be shared with the Chamber and the people? Otherwise we have been fooled by someone in the Netherlands and we do not want to be fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	I will look at that in writing. What information can I share, but I indicated that this will be very limited. I'll come back to it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	I have one more question about last weekend's incident. You wrote a letter about that, thank you very much. There's been a lot of fuss about that incident in the country. Yesterday there were demonstrations in Amsterdam and next Saturday there are people in Arnhem and also homosexuals who are afraid that the violence that is being done to them is not sufficiently seen. Your letter states that assault has been reported with a homophobic motive. Then it says: The prosecution considers that there are sufficiently serious objections to the five suspects, namely the inflicting of serious physical injury or attempted and/or open violence. There's nothing on homophobic violence. Is that something that will be discussed at a later stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	Here too, I must keep some distance. Fortunately, the D.A. is working on the prosecution and part of it is getting the facts out of the table. I don't think it's appropriate if I'm going to speculate on the criminal offences that come or aren't on the table, because that's their job. But, believe me, they take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	I don't doubt that for a moment, but the point is that there's been a lot of fuss because of the homophobic violence. That's why this week in the media...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	Sure. I also understand the background to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	The D.A. isn't talking about that. He's talking about bodily harm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	I hope you will also understand that, in the legal situation in the Netherlands, a Minister of Justice is not investigating which suspicions are or are not being taken into account by the Public Prosecutor at this stage. That wouldn't be pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	I fully understand that. I am only concerned with the question of whether the aspect of homophobic violence can actually be dealt with at a later stage. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? For the people who are following this debate, I am asking this procedural question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr Van Dijk has the best intentions in this respect, but I do not think it is good for the prosecutions to speculate here in the Chamber on what the Public Prosecutor is doing or not. The Public Prosecutor's Office is on top of it and has really gotten through the background against which these terrible facts have been committed. We really need to let the D.A. do its job quietly for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you and good luck with your work visit. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. To begin with, like Stef Blok, I would like to congratulate all maiden speakers and congratulate them on their wonderful stories. It's nice to hear such a wide range of personal stories, combined with the very big themes of politics and today's. I am pleased to be able to be a colleague of those who spoke just as beautifully. Blok has already said it, but I too am happy to indicate how intense, painful and hurtful discrimination can be for people. Sometimes it turns into violence, as we saw last weekend. Even if it isn't, it can hit people deep. You can see that it is often played down by people who have no experience of it themselves. That must be our warning. Those who do know that it is not to be underestimated. It is therefore good and logical that this new Chamber also attaches great importance to the effective fight against discrimination and also to the debate on it. In addition, as Mrs Voortman rightly said, there is an exemplary role to be played by everyone. Not only for people in politics, but for every human being he has the opportunity to play an exemplary role. That means that you have the ability to stand up for other people, as Gijs van Dijk said, but also that in the way you talk, you distinguish between people who behave badly and the group to which they belong. Van Dam explained that nicely. For a moment I was afraid he was going to stigmatize Volendammers, but that was not the case. Many of the prejudices are unconscious. The role of example also means that you can make a difference in the way you meet people. However, it is still important to register when there are incidents that point to discrimination. In this respect, I agree with Stef Blok's words in response to Mr Hiddema's beautiful speech, partly expressed in Dutch. Mr Van Dam asked whether it was true that a number of municipalities withdrew from that system. That's not true. The Minister for the Interior has recently completed an investigation showing that all municipalities do have an ADV, although they do not always have the same form or look the same. So it remains important that they can be found. However, according to Mr Plasterk's research, all municipalities fulfil their legal task of providing a hotline for discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	I know of a situation in which the municipality has withdrawn from office and its own Ombudsman has assigned it. You can say something about that in itself, but I regret that the expertise at the ADV is lost, precisely in the chain but also on the subject. That's what I was talking about; that's why my question came up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	Okay, you can. I think it would be a good idea to zoom in on this when this specific report by the Minister for the Interior is before us for discussion. Then there is the question of whether it is a responsibility of the local council to guess the local government for that or whether it is a matter for us, the national government, to say that the system of anti-discrimination regulations requires more guarantees of expertise. The latter is, of course, difficult to maintain, but I can imagine that this discussion will then take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	My main point was that this information will indeed be included in the report so that we can make the right balance that you mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u64	Fine. Mr Azarkan asked if the cabinet was prepared to spend more money on anti-discrimination policies. Unfortunately, I have to refer to the answer given by Mr Blok: we are now living in a demissionary phase. Elsewhere in The Hague, people are negotiating the formation of a new cabinet. This means that we now have restraint, no matter how much I understand and support Mr Azarkan's wish. Mr Bouali called for attention to be paid to making difficult subjects of taboo discussion, for example in schools. He mentioned sexual orientation, anti-Semitism and Muslim discrimination. It's very important. In recent years, social affairs and education have invested in methodologies to conduct these conversations, for example in collaboration with Diversity in a large number of schools. It is very important that teachers are given the tools to be able to have these kinds of conversations in their training. This is in the interests of all of us, especially in the interests of the students, who, in my view, benefit from being able to talk about sensitive subjects in a normal way. As Mr Blok said, within a few weeks there will be the kick-off of the campaign "put a line through discrimination" in schools. This campaign is always aimed at a different sector or target group. This is specifically about discrimination in schools. As part of this, tools will be brought to the attention of the public to ensure that discrimination can be discussed in schools. We are almost always talking about the sensitive issues that Mr Bouali talked about. It is an important subject that we have done a great deal about in recent years. But we're not finished yet. We all know how much pressure there is still in the communities and within groups to keep thinking, talking and sometimes acting against minorities, whatever those minorities are. This means that I agree with Jasper van Dijk on my own that it is important that attention should be paid to these matters in the MBO too. This has also been the case, but we have also seen that the new rainbow coalition is announcing a further step. A large number of parties have endorsed the plans. It is exciting to see whether the forming parties agree on this and whether, if not, initiatives are being taken from the Chamber. The School & Security Foundation supports schools that find it difficult to discuss these kinds of topics. I can imagine anything about the desire to place this more firmly, but there too, from this status, I cannot take any steps in it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u65	Quite right: the Chamber is on the move. That's a great time for an SP room member, I can tell you. I will therefore make a proposal to the Chamber to arrange for this sexual education in the MBO. But then you still have primary and secondary education, about which you undoubtedly have contacts with your colleague from OCW. That is where the core goals are regulated, but there are no real means to address schools if they refuse to implement those strengthened core objectives of sexual education. Would you like to take a look at that? How can we address these schools a little more firmly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u66	It may well be that the educational colleagues have a different interpretation of the existing possibilities. The Education Inspectorate is, of course, competent to assess whether schools teach the core objectives to an adequate degree. At the same time, we are getting signals and recent research showing that a number of schools are still struggling to teach on these kinds of subjects. Then there are two possibilities: powerlessness or unwillingness. If I were powerless, my attitude would be to help those schools. There are quite good methods for this. Regardless of the student population, that's fine. Don't say "find it" to the teacher, but support him, give him safety, make sure they talk about it in the teachers' room. If there is unwillingness, we must be unbearable. Then the inspection must intervene: I do not think that is acceptable. We have determined here in this house what needs to be taught. Well, then that's what's gonna have to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u67	Again, I fully agree with the Minister! It is, of course, a question of the schools which refuse to implement those core objectives, which are legally defined, because this would not be appropriate for some reason for those schools. We cannot accept that. They have the law to enforce. A school has to give language and math. A school should also provide sexual education. We agree, but I think we still need to think about a good sanction. I shall also consider this in a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u68	Very nice. There are all kinds of beautiful elements at this stage, including the fact that Mr Jasper van Dijk and I are always in constant agreement. We'll see how long that phase lasts. Mr. Chairman. I think I will stick to this for a moment in relation to the education section, even though more questions have been asked about it. There was also a very interesting debate between the various parties, in particular the Christian Union and the SP. I would now like to focus on what is more at the heart of my responsibility: discrimination in the labour market. I think it would be a good idea to comment on the words of Mr De Graaf. You will hear wonderful speeches from people who speak out against discrimination and racism. Mr De Graaf began to say that he is also in favour of Article 1 of the Constitution, but it took him maybe five seconds to break it. I find that very strange. You have some fundamental rights in our Constitution. Article 1: the right to equal treatment. Article 6: Freedom of religion. Article 7: freedom of expression. So you can't say: I'm sticking to the Constitution, but I'm tearing out a number of articles, because for the rest, I think it's a good book. The core of the Constitution is really not just the way we choose our city council. This is also very important, but it does not start with fundamental rights for nothing. It's not convincing, it's not acceptable. In fact, you're actually burning that Constitution if you do what Mr De Graaf is doing here. He says: I am against discrimination, but I do not think that Muslims are discriminated against. For me, the freedom of faith does not count for that large group of Dutch people. In that sense, I think it is more an attack on the rule of law than a defence of it. What are the measures we are taking, then, a question from Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS to combat discrimination against older people in the labour market? Over the past period, I have drawn up an action plan with the social partners: Perspective for 50-plussers. That was badly needed, because we saw and we see it all of people from our surroundings, and we know that 50-plussers are having a much harder time on the labour market than others. Especially once they've lost their jobs, it takes more time and more effort to get to work. That's what's in a couple of things. It's in perceived risks around the elderly. Employers don't dare to do that. It is sometimes also in the fact that older people have done very little from their existing job in training for a very long time. They had to learn to apply again and so on. He's often also in prejudice about the elderly. That's what we're trying to do. Measures have been taken in all these areas. I would mention that 50PLUS was involved in the appointment of John de Wolf as an ambassador to remove those prejudices. He does that incredibly well. It leads to a lot of enthusiasm, both for employers and for job seekers. That's why I've decided to ask him to stay on a little longer. But we're not done with that yet. Age discrimination also plays a role. It means that where we are taking generic measures to give 50-plussers more opportunities, we should also be able to tackle forms of direct discrimination in the labour market against 50-plussers. I saw with several Members of Parliament that they ended up in a list, but that is sometimes no different. It must be made clear that all forms of discrimination are reprehensible, both of the elderly and pregnant and of people with different backgrounds, beliefs or orientations. Of course, this prevention continues to be more sensible than fighting it afterwards, as several speakers have pointed out. Hence the need to remove those prejudices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u69	I did not go into it very specifically in my speech, but could the Minister give a brief appreciation of the strengthening of the inspection? As I indicated, I'm just a few months back in the Netherlands. I was shocked by the unemployment figures: a factor three among people with a migrant background who have received higher education in this country. Can he give a very brief appreciation of the motion we tabled at the time to strengthen the labour inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u70	I think it has been very good that the House has taken the initiative to address the issue of labour market discrimination. This has led to an action plan. This has not solved the problem, but it is ambitious and we are working hard on it. The initiative has also led to specific attention being paid to this issue, namely with the labour discrimination team within the inspection. I must honestly admit that I initially had doubts about this, because the inspection cannot deal with individual cases. If you are dealing with discrimination, you often need to hear your complaint and get your right. For that we have the College of Human Rights and the judge. Now that the team's busy, I see it's important. It focuses on prevention. It checks whether companies have sufficiently effective policies to combat discrimination and also bullying, sexual harassment and an unsafe working environment. Since the team arrived, it has become clear that many companies, sometimes unaware of their obligations, do not have that policy. That leads to repeat visits. Moreover, we have now invested in better information on the obligations of each company to do something about them. My reflection is that it is a very good addition, that it is important work and that it can never replace the other. Individual cases remain to be addressed, but they do contribute to a safe working environment in which there is no discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u71	I thank the Minister for some of the answer. At this particular point, he indicated that he himself did not see so much in an enlargement. Can he indicate the capacity at the moment? If the team works that well, is he willing to expand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u72	I went back into the history of that discussion. I am now a warm supporter of that team, but there has been a discussion in the Chamber, in which I was convinced of the need for such a specific team. Now it's there and I think it's very good. I am also very much in favour of increasing inspection capacity by 100 fte, as far as I am concerned. Then you can bet on all important goals, whether it is about exploitation, combating discrimination or safe work. We are seeing a huge increase in the number of accidents. For example, in construction you can be stronger. Unfortunately, however, I should not repeat that it is currently on a table nearby. I cannot now decide on such an enlargement, but in itself I would be very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u74	I had just come to a question from Mr Azarkan. He rightly cited the investigation into temporary employment agencies in and around Amsterdam. This had quite shocking results: obvious discriminatory requests were accepted. That shows how widespread the phenomenon is. I saw an example on the social media this morning, which I am not sure is true; if it is not true, it is certainly a wonderful example. Someone asks a car salesman who the previous owner is, because he wants to make sure it's not a Turkish car. The seller indicates that the previous owner was a Dutch gay and asks if he might have a problem with that. By the way, the owner of the car company itself is of Turkish origin. It ends by pointing out a linguistic error to the person making this discriminatory request. That was a wonderful and brilliant reaction, but of course there is a sad reality behind it. Unfortunately, as the investigation of temporary employment agencies showed, the commonplaceness of discrimination is visible in many places and affects people. In 2015, research was carried out on behalf of my department on discrimination in the recruitment and selection phase, as this is, of course, the subject of the example of temporary employment agencies. The results showed that a Dutchman with a migrant background has half less opportunities to be approached for a job than a Dutchman who doesn't have that background. The chances of older people were also significantly reduced. Other studies also point to this. It shows that it is important to focus on this in the future. We have quite a few actions running on that. They must have their effect. I mention, among other things, the diversity charter, but also the decision not to do business with discriminatory companies and the campaigns that are there. And yes, I think it would be very good to carry out this kind of investigation, because that was Mr Azarkan's question to repeat so much time, so that you can see whether there is improvement or precisely that the measures have not worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u75	However, a somewhat lean answer to this multifaceted problem. It turns out that these sixteen temporary employment agencies not only agreed to filter out the Moroccans and the Turks, but also indicated that they often got this question from companies that wanted to do business with them. I'd still like to ask the Minister to see what he could really do about this. Because if we wait for the next investigation, we'll be surprised again and then we'll have another debate here. What can we really do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u76	We answered parliamentary questions about that at the end of last month. In this case it was a nice action by a young club activists, but the tricky thing is that it didn't lead to reports. That is, of course, necessary if you are to take further action. I'm on my own for that. I agree with what the Minister of Security and Justice said about this. It is necessary not only to conduct research, but also to call on people to report such cases. Then you can do something. You can use that to set an example. I think that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u77	Is the Minister also prepared to engage with the General Confederation of Temporary Workers? Because there too, of course, you can go much further than just putting it on paper. We need to throw out parties that really break the law and pursue these kinds of harmful practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u78	Sure. I've also talked to the union about it several times. Indeed, it is not the first time that temporary employment agencies have come into the dark in this respect. Moreover, it appears that the temporary employment agencies that are members of the ABU were doing well. They were other temp agencies. But that's no excuse. It remains important that, especially where the certificates are used, which are also attractive to temporary employment agencies, it is clear that you have to abide by the law and the rules, including this very important legislation that prohibits discrimination. So, yeah, I talked to the union about it. They agree with me, too. I will not fail to emphasise that. I agree with Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you to the Minister for his answers so far. I do have one more question. We are talking about labour market discrimination and the like. If I have understood correctly, and I would like confirmation from the Minister, he is opposed to people being chosen for a particular job on the basis of their skin color. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u80	I am against all forms of discrimination as described by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u81	Okay. What does the Minister then think of Alderman Baldewsingh here in The Hague who has indicated that he wants to "unwitter" the city hall, meaning that there are too many white people working at the city hall and too few people of colour, and that he is actually implementing that desire? Isn't that brutally racist?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u82	It is allowed to pursue diversity policies. If you say "there are too few middle-aged men here with Mr. De Graaf's background," you can pursue policies to give such people the opportunity to apply as well. That makes the organization more diverse. It is not allowed to treat or fire people differently because of their background, their beliefs or their views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u83	That's exactly what's going on at the city hall here in The Hague. The alderman, a PvdA alderman for all intents and purposes, said, "I want to get out of town hall." So he's literally talking about color. He's gonna hire people based on color. Isn't that the Minister's duty to distance himself from that? It would grace him if he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u84	Everyone in the Netherlands must comply with the law, so must Mr De Graaf and Mr Baldewsingh. An alderman has it in his name, too. This means that the diversity policy of the city of The Hague will also have to comply with the legal rules. If that were not the case, then I think it would be premature for people to report it and report it, and then there will be a correction. But if you want to have representative and diverse personnel policies as PVV in the group support, that is something other than discrimination based on origin. The first one's okay. We can't have the second one. Mrs Voortman and Mr Gijs van Dijk asked a question about the responsibilities and responsibilities of the SZW Inspection. I am reluctant to do so because it has been deliberately chosen in our system that the inspection does not deal with individual cases. This means that the deployment of job applicants and so on is not on the way of the Labour Inspectorate. That is not one of the possibilities and powers which it has at its disposal under procedural law. The inspection is also not going to do experimental poison discharges or try to finger companies in that way. No, it has clearly framed powers from the legislation it controls compliance with. She's got to stick to that, too. This fits much more with the criminal trial element. If you go into criminal law, there are, of course again under strict conditions, possibilities to look at when people cross the line. But this doesn't fit in with the way our inspection works. That's not just meant as something defensive. It is also a force of the Labour Inspectorate that it does not pay attention to individual cases, that it can sanction and impose fines if companies go wrong and that it is primarily responsible for general compliance with labour market legislation, in particular labour law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u85	I cannot speak for Mr Van Dijk, but I did not say that the Labour Inspectorate should do so. It could also be done by other bodies. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that it would be possible if it were not done by the Labour Inspectorate but, for example, from the police or the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u86	Under strict conditions. That discussion is older. There's been talk of decoy gays or decoys if you want to see if people outrun themselves. It can't just happen. Incitement is obviously not an allowed method in criminal law, but there are circumstances under which that can be done. This is then in the domain of Security and Justice. I thought Mrs. Voortman asked me. I automatically think of the Labour Inspectorate. Well, at least we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u87	That's clear. I also asked a question about the results of the diversity charter. I hope the Minister is still entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u88	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u89	I was referring to the fact that the Inspection SZW is carrying out research at the time of structural bullying in a company or of structural discrimination. Then the Inspection SZW investigates and concludes whether that is the case or not. Many young people in the Netherlands apply dull because of their last name and do not come to work. I meant to ask in my first term: are there any possibilities for the Minister to have the inspection or otherwise examine companies that do so structurally in recruitment and selection, and perhaps to call on a company to do so? That was my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u90	Then it gets a little more difficult. The inspection may maintain in the absence of adequate policies to combat discrimination, sexual harassment and bullying. This is something other than the possibility of individual sanctioning a company if, for example, it is underpaid. I would like to call on young people to report and file a complaint if, for example, they are abused under the guise of internship when they are actually doing work. You can do something about that individually from the inspection. Then a fine can be imposed. That's a little more complex in the case of discrimination. Nevertheless, it would be good if we clustered such reports as much as possible. That is how I hear Mr Gijs van Dijk's appeal. Because then you can see what's going on. I am also in favour of naming-and-shaming. At a time when companies are going overboard, it's good if consumers and customers know that. In that sense, I agree with him. At the same time, I must point out once again that the possibilities of the Labour Inspectorate in this area and in this area are very limited by the way the inspection in our system does its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mr Van Dam welcomes the fact that good examples are also mentioned in the fight against discrimination and racism. I agree with him. We certainly need to continue with that. Let me answer Mrs Voortman's question about the diversity charter right away. Am I satisfied with that and what are the results? I'm very happy about it. The aim is to promote the positive aspects, the companies that are doing a great deal to combat discrimination and promote diversity. The companies and organisations that participate set the bar for themselves ever higher. They make a promise to do more about it. It's made measurable. That's stimulating and working well. Besides, they're talking to each other about it. It is of course much nicer for a company to be addressed to what it does well and to what others do well than to always sit in the dock. On the contrary, many companies are very positive in the competition and want to get ideas and tips on how to deal with this. Sometimes there is inability or embarrassment because one does not know how to shape it. That's what this charter's doing. As far as I am concerned, it is a very powerful instrument. Over 80 organisations, both public and private, are affiliated. It leads to very concrete improvements within organisations. I would very much like this to be continued and given the opportunity to continue growing. Mr Bouali asked what the cabinet is doing to combat pregnancy discrimination. I recently sent the pregnancy discrimination action plan to the Chamber. That plan contains thirteen new measures to do something extra to combat pregnancy discrimination. It focuses on enforcement, knowledge and awareness, but also on reporting and registration. On this point, there is the focus of the work discrimination team, which we have just discussed, and there is targeted and personalised information to women, including through the GGD and the midwife organisations, so that they are reminded of their rights when they are expected. Particular attention is also paid to the importance of reporting, including through social media. We're gonna be working on that in the next few days. In next year's national action plan, I can tell you what progress has been made on these measures, but this subject certainly has our attention. The College of Human Rights issued a worrying report on this matter six months ago. Mrs Van Brenk asked how age discrimination could not be mentioned separately in the progress report. The letter mentions only a few examples, but the annex does mention all forms, including actions on age discrimination. Reference is also made to the progress report on the Action Plan, which was recently sent to the Chamber. Next year, both reports will be merged, so that no one can feel that attention is paid to one, but not to the other, and so that we have a complete picture right away. Should this issue also be included in the Constitution? It now states that discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, political orientation, race, gender or any other ground is not permitted. There is an initiative proposal in the Chamber to increase the number of explicitly mentioned grounds. This is also one of the areas on which the various political parties voted in favour of the elections. We must now look at whether this is taking shape from a Parliamentary initiative or from a new cabinet to be formed. I feel great sympathy for the intention to extend the grounds in Article 1, but I cannot really respond as a outgoing minister. It is really up to a new cabinet to adopt a position on this issue. This brings me to the end of my first term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That is not the case with everyone. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA. We shall use one minute and twenty seconds' speaking time, including the tabling of motions if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Asscher and Minister Blok for their answers to all the questions and comments. This is an incredibly important debate, not only for us as politicians, but especially for a lot of people in the Netherlands who have to deal daily with discrimination on any ground. We're in the middle of a missionary cabinet right now. We have heard this a few times from the outgoing ministers. So at the moment we have little extra plans and additional funding to agree with each other. There are motions from other colleagues. I'll look into that. Above all, I would like to make it clear that in the near future it will be a demissionary time, but it is up to us as a Chamber to come up with good initiatives when it comes to combating discrimination. That can make the difference for a lot of people in the Netherlands. That is what we must continue to try, and at least we will continue to do so. I have already said in the first term that we have a letter, in which we are proposing to the forming parties at the moment, how to deal with discrimination further. We have now sent that letter to the informant. I look forward to the cooperation and initiatives for the coming period on this important subject for all those people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr Bouali gave up the floor. I call Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their input. They have indicated what steps have been taken so far and that it is partly a question of roll-out and putting it into practice. However, when it comes to real concrete proposals, I do not always see that it is said: that is how we are going to deal with it. For example, it is agreed that we must ensure that reporting is promoted and that unconscious discrimination is avoided. I mentioned the example of ethnic profiling. The Minister will explain why he's not in favour of stopping forms, but what is? I'm not stuck with any specific means, but I'd like to know what we can do. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I welcome what the Minister for Social Affairs has said about the diversity charter, namely that it makes promises measurable. You can then see as an employer whether you really do what you promise. In my opinion, many employers believe that they do not discriminate, and this charter might open their eyes to the fact that it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their kind response. I would like to highlight this goodwill on two points, particularly given the missionary status of the cabinet and the twilight zone between one and the next cabinet. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a fine law is being worked in Germany to force social media companies to set up clear reporting procedures and to take swift action against criminal acts or expressions on their platforms, such as discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government to examine to what extent such a German model law is feasible and desirable in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas criminal prosecution of discrimination is important for the signaling of society, the satisfaction of the victim and the prevention of recidivism;]] [[Whereas it may contribute to the restoration of justice if part of the sentence is adapted to the discriminatory nature of the offence, for example by allowing an offender to come into contact with the group affected by discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Council for the case-law and representative organisations, to examine how penalties can be adapted to the discriminatory nature of the offence, for example by applying a special condition or by setting up a Community service for the purpose of discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-108]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to both directors for the answer. I see time is ticking. If I do a Hiddemate, which is to go far beyond my time, I hope you can forgive me. I'll be quick. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the persistent prevention of discrimination in our society requires us to act responsibly innovatively in terms of possible effective sanctions and penalties;]] [[noting that sociological research shows that, under certain conditions, contact leads to greater mutual understanding and thereby a reduction in prejudice;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how publicly facilitated contact between convicted perpetrators of discrimination and victims of discrimination can be a responsible and effective way of punishing discrimination, with the participation of victims and offenders being voluntary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to research by the SCP, about a quarter of the Dutch population indicated that they had experienced discrimination;]] [[also noted that in the past year the College of Human Rights indicated that it had received almost a thousand more reports of discrimination than the previous year;]] [[noting that discrimination means that many people are unable to develop their talents, to career or otherwise to climb up the social ladder;]] [[expresses the wish that the new coalition agreement should include a robust package of measures to combat discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-110]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u99	Ten seconds later!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Hiddema keeps his status separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. It's pretty handsome if you can get a phenomenon in your name after one debate: a Hiddemaatje.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u102	It's beautiful, isn't
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u103	I hope that the definition of this term does not include a glowy argument in the first term and that it will no longer be available in the second. I still had so many questions for Mr Hiddema, but perhaps there will be another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u104	There are more meetings in this building. It could just be that he's somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u105	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions in the 56 seconds that remain to me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Rainbow Voting Box Agreement proposes the introduction of compulsory lessons on Lhbti acceptance on the MBO;]] [[Considering that according to the educational inspection, only about 60% of MBO schools pay attention to sexual diversity and resilience;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to introduce mandatory lessons on LHBTI acceptance on the MBO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that information on sexual diversity contributes to the fight against discrimination;]] [[Considering that the core objectives of sexual diversity were strengthened as early as 2012;]] [[Considering that, according to the education inspection, about 80% of the education, social and social schools pay attention to sexual diversity and not yet 20%;]] [[considers that all schools should comply with the core objectives;]] [[calls on the Government not to hesitate to impose financial sanctions or administrative intervention on schools which consistently refuse to pay attention to sexual diversity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-112]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u106	Madam President. I am glad that we are talking about a Hiddemaatje and not about a Van Dammetje, because perhaps this could have happened sooner. I would like to thank both ministers for answering the questions. I myself have a dilemma and I hope to make it clearer in the near future. When does the Chamber talk about discrimination and racism? That is when there has been an incident; it is right that we should then discuss it. That is about once a year when the policy is discussed. That policy is comprehensive. I have a great deal of appreciation for that. I don't think it's right for the policy that we only talk about it once. I don't know exactly how I feel about that, but I'm going to see how I relate to it in the next few days; that's the dilemma I see. One of the issues for which the CDA Group would like to draw particular attention in the near future is how to deal with this higher penalty requirement. The number of cases actually brought to justice is very small. There are good reasons for that. But is this double penalty measure applied in the cases that do come before the courts? To what extent does the judge go along with that? Next time this will be a special focus of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u107	Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius stated that she did not need a second-term contribution. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the explanatory statement, the Action Plan Perspective for 50-plussers and the extension of the term of the senior ambassador. We do think that is very good. I would just like to point out that a recent UWV report showed that the chances of a 60-year-old on the labour market are 1.2%. So it's still very much needed. The Minister spoke inviting words such as 'the initiative is now in the Chamber' and 'yes, we think that combating all the forms of discrimination we have talked about today is extremely important'. Our Constitution begins with Article 1. There are several grounds, but it must be clear that one grounds for discrimination do not outweigh the other. We must leave no doubt about that. On behalf of the 50PLUS Group, I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination is a widespread problem in our society;]] [[calls on the Government, by means of a special committee, to examine how the prohibition of discrimination can best be incorporated into the Constitution on any conceivable basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u109	Let me see if Mrs Arissen still wants to speak in the second term. That is not the case. That brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Voortman asked what we do against ethnic profiling. First of all, in the next two years, all the basic teams will receive the awareness-raising course ethnically profiling. It is part of the package of measures set out in the letter of 4 October 2016. Additional funding has been allocated, increased attention has been paid to training, the police app has been used, a new legal framework has been chosen professionally. That framework is now ready and will be implemented by all teams. There is also a better complaint procedure and bodycams are being deployed, for which a legal framework is now being established, which will be reported at the end of May. In addition, there is increasing registration and a two-week central screening of all reports of discrimination and declarations. In other words, fortunately there are many other things that have been discussed in other debates. Before I go into the motions, I say that the meaning of pre-advisation is now much more relative than in a missionary period. The Chamber can decide for itself what it finds and what it wants. If I betray a motion, I won't be awake if the Chamber doesn't follow that advice. The parties that are now sitting in that other room will be looked at in particular, much more than what I think of it or not. Even if I advise against a motion, the Chamber itself will be able to agree. That is just a disclaimer, otherwise it will be noted that I may be voting for something later when I have previously advised against it. That's perfectly normal. So I might as well be in favour of sitting there in the benches, but it's part of my role as outgoing minister that I'm not going to make all kinds of new plans. We're gonna need a new minister to do that later. In short, I do not recommend the Segers/Van Dam motion in part No. 108. I can say that Mr Blok has just agreed to look explicitly at what is being done in Germany. He'll report on that to the Chamber. This is an opportunity to have the debate on whether we want the same thing in the Netherlands, yes or no. The aim of Mr Segers' motion is, in fact, largely fulfilled by the commitment made by Blok net.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u111	I said it's a mark of the goodwill I've heard. It should be examined whether it is feasible and desirable. That's very noncommittal. I would say, then, leave it to the Court's judgment. The Chamber can then decide for itself whether it thinks that is a good idea. Minister Blok has said that he would like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u112	I very much agree with Segers; I often suffer from this. It is in the wording "calls on the government to investigate (...)." The point is that when you ask the government to investigate something, she appoints an investigative agency and pays out money for it, after which there will be an investigation. Of course, I agree with the words that Mr Segers is now using to look at them. Then I'll make it "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u113	Then let's do it that way. Minister Blok can look at it independently and he, or his successor, writes a letter about it at a good time. Then we'll hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u114	Fine. What I just formulated was just the exception to the rule, because the Segers/Van Brenk motion on piece No. 109, I'm telling you, I don't know. It is really up to a new cabinet to consider how to deal with the cutting of penalties. In the Azarkan motion in part No. 110 the government is asked to investigate whether there could be contact between convicted offenders and victims. If we have to look at this as part of the punishment, let me look at Mr Azarkan.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But there are already opportunities to do this through the ADVs. In itself, this is very good. Mr Azarkan has rightly quoted research which shows that this can lead to a change in behaviour. If I may take the motion that way, this is policy support. Mr Azarkan nodded, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u115	I've seen that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u116	In the Azarkan motion in part No. 111 will not be asked to speak to the government, but the Chamber will give an opinion. It is therefore up to the Chamber to decide. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 911 is about the mandatory classes. We have discussed it, I say to Mr Van Dijk. Demissionary can't do anything with it anymore, but we'll see what the Chamber says. Formally, I must discourage the motion. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 113 calls on the government not to hesitate to impose financial sanctions or to intervene administratively on schools that consistently refuse to pay attention to sexual diversity. That is policy support, unless Mr Jasper van Dijk would like the policy to be changed. In that case, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u117	I'm taking an intermediate position here. The inspection does indeed have those resources; the Minister is right to do so. The point is that we have to establish that they have not yet been deployed. That is why this motion is a support for applying the policy that is indeed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u118	That falls all the way into the first tray. That is absolutely policy support. The cabinet, however outgoing, once again feels strongly supported by Mr Jasper van Dijk. The motion in part No. 114, in which the government is asked to have a special committee of inquiry, I advise against. There is, of course, an initiative from the Chamber. That will of course get its follow-up; so don't worry. The subject also receives a great deal of support from various political parties. However, I cannot now set up a special committee to do so. For that reason, therefore, I reject the motion, but the subject is on the agenda and remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-06-tweedekamer-7.u120	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
