ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, and the Spanish Ambassador, Mr Arias González. A number of Members of Parliament are already standing, but I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand, if possible. Almost three weeks ago, we were shocked again by a cowardly attack on innocent people. Sixteen people died in Barcelona when a van hit the Ramblas. There were victims of different nationalities and different ages. Xavi from Spain, only 3 years old, was hit while he was in a stroller. Luca Russo from Italy, 25 years old, had only graduated as an engineer. Jared Tucker from the United States, 43 years old, was in Barcelona with his wife to celebrate their one-year wedding party. Every Vanbockrijck from our neighbour Belgium, 44 years old, wanted to attend a match of FC Barcelona that week. Carmen Lopardo from Argentina, 80 years old, wanted to enjoy the "old continent" one more time. She and others were commemorated at the start of the football match against Real Betis. On several signs the slogan was: "We are all Barcelona." In this way, we too are discussing these tragic events today: we are all Barcelona. The Spanish poet Federico García Lorca once said the following about the Ramblas, and I quote: "It's the only street in the world I wanted it to never end." Freedom. Dynamics. Creativity. Enjoy life. That's the feeling of the Ramblas. And that feeling has gotten quite a pinch with this attack. It is the reality that all major cities in Europe are currently facing. This brings terrorism very close. Especially the fear of this. That's what they want. Us against them. Sow fear. Spreading intolerance. We must not allow ourselves to be influenced by this in any way. We must continue to oppose it. We must continue to stand up to those who abuse fear to turn people against each other. At the end of August hundreds of thousands of people chanted the slogan "I'm not afraid" in the heart of Barcelona. In doing so, they announced that they would not be intimidated by terror. Let us support the Spanish people and any country affected by terrorism. Terrorism is everywhere, and anyone could be a victim of it. This also turned out to be a day after the attack in Barcelona in the Finnish Turku, where two people were killed and several were injured in a stabbing. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I expressed my condolences to the Spanish and Finnish parliaments. Our hearts go out to the victims and next of kin. In my mind, we're with them. We wish them much strength in their loss. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. The famous Spanish writer and philosopher José Ortega y Gasset once wrote that hatred inevitably leads to the destruction of values. The horrible attack on the Ramblas in Barcelona on Thursday, August 17 shows its similarity. How awfully much hate it takes to ride a van into innocent people in a place where people from all over the world come together! It is an act of Muslim extremists with which all values of humanity and compassion were trampled again. The contrast with the reaction of the family of the British-Australian boy Julian Cadman cannot be greater. Julian, who seemed to be missing for a while, was one of the deadly victims. He was only 7 years old. In the first days after August 17, for his close days between hope and fear, he became the face of this terrible attack. After all hope was lost, his family thanked everyone in an impressive way for their comfort and support. They wrote among other things: "We are blessed to have Julian in our lives and keep the memories of him deep in our hearts. We are also aware that we are not the only family badly affected. Our prayers go out to everyone who has been affected by this." So much strength, love and dignity in such great injustice and such deep sorrow! It's moving. It cuts right through your soul. It's hope versus hate and it's light versus dark. Madam President, you also quoted it: in the days after the attack, you heard "No tinc por" ("I'm not afraid") over and over again in Barcelona. We're not afraid. We continue to live and stand before everything that is important to us: democracy, freedom, humanity. "No tinc por." Otherwise, the terrorists would win. We'll never allow that. The Netherlands mourns the Spaniards and the people of Barcelona. Our heart is with the victims. We wish the next of kin and everyone affected by this attack a great deal of strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	I thank the Prime Minister. I would ask all of you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	I shall suspend the sitting to allow you to convey your condolences to the Spanish ambassador.
