ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u1	We begin with the answers of the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. In February, we sent the Chamber a plan of approach to teacher shortage, a plan which deals with full education: primary education, secondary education, MBO and, of course, teacher training, which play a major role in reducing the shortage of teachers. In secondary education, there has been a persistent shortage of teachers for years, particularly with specializations in foreign languages and beta subjects. We know that. In the MBO, the shortage mainly affects vocationally oriented technical training. When we look at primary education, the urgency there is the highest and the greatest, even if you are forecasting and looking at what is coming. If we do nothing, we are heading towards an estimated shortage of over 4,000 fte of teachers and school leaders by 2020, which would then grow to 10,000 by 2025. That's when we don't do anything, and of course we do something. We do not want these predictions to come true and are therefore working hard to prevent the shortage of teachers from getting so high. Now the shortage of teachers in this sector is also linked to salary and workload. I will say a few words on both points later. A large number of primary schools started an hour later last Tuesday to give a signal about the salary, the workload and the shortage of teachers. Many members attended the event on the Malieveld. I take that signal seriously. At the same time, we are not just solving the problem with more money, an issue on which, moreover, a new cabinet will have to deal. With the implementation of the plan of action, we have set up actions that we can, should and should already be able to work with. Now we are dealing with an education system with shared responsibilities, so in education in the Netherlands you have only common problems that you have to solve together. This is particularly true of the shortage of teachers. It is a problem that no one can solve alone, so it has to be done together with teacher training, employers, workers' organisations, trade unions, municipalities and the school boards themselves. They have to work to do little by little, piece by piece, what to do to avoid problems. That requires commitment and creativity. I fully agree with Mr Rog and Mr Bishop. I believe that it also reflected in the input of a number of others..... that this commitment and creativity should never be at the expense of the quality of our education, for example by placing unauthorized teachers in the classroom or sending children home who should simply receive lessons. Mr. Chairman. I would like to build my speech along three lines. Let me first say something about wages and salaries. Next, I would like to say a few words about work pressure in education. Finally, I specifically address measures in the teacher shortage approach plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u3	This was your general introduction? That's the case. Mr Kwint has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u4	The Secretary of State says he understands the teachers who were on the Malieveld. I appreciate that. He says it's a problem that you don't just solve with extra money. I appreciate that, too. Recently, at a congress of the PO Council, the Secretary of State urged teachers to stop asking for extra money each time. My question is now a little bit which one it is. Is it a problem that can't only be solved with extra money? Or should the teachers for whom the Secretary of State has just shown understanding stop asking for extra money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u5	Actually, it wasn't a meeting with teachers, but it was a meeting of the PO Council. That's where the employers, the boards were. Perhaps there were some teachers present, but I spoke in particular to the PO Council. Looking at all the financial claims that have been made over the past two or three years, I found that it is a very long list. I have also indicated that I understand very well if a forthcoming cabinet is perhaps doing something about education, including in the financial sense. I've read the election programs. I can see that a lot of parties do something about education. But that also requires making choices. You cannot put the bill back in The Hague for every problem. I made the call there: help us and tell us where the need is most; also help us to make those choices. That is the question I put there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u6	Then we agree that, although the shortage of teachers is a problem, it is not only with money, but also with money that can be solved. But I won't ask you, because you're Demissionary Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u7	Sometimes money can be part of a solution, but I see that different political parties have different wishes and ideas about it. In addition, I now find it unwise to wait for something that a forthcoming cabinet might do, because we can already do a great deal in reducing the shortage of teachers, with the money we have at the moment. That's what I said at that meeting, but I'm gonna say it here again. This can be done in many ways, even in terms of salary. I'll say something about that now. Mr. Chairman. I have unbelievable appreciation for masters and girls who work hard every day. The profession of teacher is versatile. Maybe it's one of the most relevant subjects you can practice. It's not always easy; I can see that too. Good teaching is a subject, but there's also a lot of class coming in. We see social developments, such as the introduction of appropriate education. There are also developments in the field of ICT. There are mature, critical parents. Tensions in society also end up directly in the classroom. All these developments have a major impact on the way in which a teacher exercises his profession today. This requires a great deal from teachers; high demands are made. I also see a lot of teachers who set the bar very high for themselves. We must be aware of the attractiveness and appreciation of the profession. We shouldn't just confess that with the mouth. That includes a good salary. In recent years, we have invested in teachers' rewards. From 2015 onwards, after a long period of zero line, this cabinet has made a small catch-up for the first time in a long time. This cabinet has invested in space for a wage increase of more than 5% over the period 2015-2016. In recent years we have also focused on more opportunities for growth and career prospects with the introduction of the LeerKracht action plan. That dates back to some time before, namely from 2007. This is a firm revaluation of the profession with investments amounting to a total of 250 million in 2020. Because the number of steps within a salary scale has been reduced, teachers are more likely to be at their maximum step. So they grow there faster. An allowance has been made possible for those who are already on the maximum step. More opportunities have also been created to grow to higher pay scales. That's what we all call the function mix. With the strengthening of the function mix, the objective has been formulated in consultation with the social partners that in 2014 40% of teachers are in the LB scale and 2% in the LC scale, which is just a little higher, also in terms of income. At present, primary education accounts for only 26% of teachers in the LB scale and 0.2%, instead of the agreed 2%, in the LC scale. The schools, the employers have their own responsibility, because we do not employ teachers. It changes. Some schools, some governments, have put the money very well into use and the national goal, translated into their own school, has been achieved. That doesn't apply to all the boards. Often there is still room for manoeuvre between the ambition we expressed at the time alone, including with the social partners, and reality. Those boards have to make another move in my eyes. They got the money, so I'd say use it. Mr Rog was right to ask how I looked at the role of the PO Council in this matter. These are the employers who have also signed these agreements. Honestly, I was a little surprised about that; there was a little eyebrow going up. You simply see that there is a discrepancy between what is confessed to the mouth and what is realized in practice. Then there is a substantive point about the difference in position between a teacher in primary education and a teacher in secondary education. Mr Kwint asked for that too. There's always been a difference between those two types of school. Differences in function are reflected in job descriptions, which are again part of a so-called job rating system. That is why I felt it was important to send that letter to the Chamber as well, to give some indication of what it looks like in practice. By the way, that is not something we do from the Ministry. It is a system that is being used and which is being adapted over and over again, when needed, by the social partners. The question of whether this description should be adapted to current events, for example given the circumstances in which teachers have to do their work, can only be answered by them. The same applies to the abolition of the LA function, of course, always within the scope available to the social partners. Mr Kwint said: I would like to see these things sometime. I think he has asked this in an earlier debate, and I think the first time we talked about the workload. The point is that the job evaluation is not ours, but the social partners. The social partners are free to make them available. What I can do is pass on the Chamber's request. Because there is in the sector p.o. A lot of teachers are already working in ordinary primary education for about 80,000 people. Every generic wage measure has an incredible effect. As the Minister and I wrote on behalf of the cabinet in the letter on remuneration in primary education, there is no room for such an increase in the current budget. We have therefore indicated in recent months that it is up to a new cabinet to determine possible investments in education and the goals for which that money is being spent. Now, of course, the question is how it is going to be if the formation is going to last for a very long time. How's it going if the old cabinet is still there on Princess' Day? This would be a unique situation, but the current cabinet will have to draw up a budget for 2018. However, that too must not be done by taking one or two things out of it, but by making an overall assessment of problems, of political wishes, of course also of the financial area available, taking into account the fact that it is a deportationary cabinet. It is a cabinet that cannot automatically count on a majority in your Chamber. Finally, on this point, perhaps it is also true that we still have a number of serious setbacks in the OCW budget. Mr Van Meenen calls that "savings." I really think that's too short a turn. These are autonomous setbacks in estimates. But that too is something that has to be decided sooner or later and for which a solution has to be found. That will have to be taken into account in such an integral consideration. In short, we cannot anticipate that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u8	The Secretary of State says: I see no room in the budget of OCW to meet the demand to address the income position of masters and teachers in primary education, who have been expressed inside and outside the Chamber. It is, of course, a completely hypothetical example, but let us say that one minister from another ministry would suddenly say: well, Secretary of State, I would actually like to raise the salaries of masters and damsels, and I might also know where we can get that money from. Would the Secretary of State say, "Well, Minister, why don't you spend it on your own ministry?" Or would he say, "Let's hang out together to see if we can do something for the masters and girls?" This is, of course, completely hypothetical again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u9	I can enjoy Mr Kwint's humour, but the honest answer is that this discussion must first take place in the cabinet. I have never anticipated any budgetary commitment in the last four years, also because I do not think we should create the wrong expectations. Should the case arise that this cabinet still needs to consider the 2018 budget, we really need to conduct these discussions in the cabinet first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u10	I appreciate that restraint in general, but the front pages of the newspapers now communicate from the cabinet that extra money is needed for teachers. At the same time, we are receiving a letter stating that there is really no room for extra money for teachers. I'm sorry to have to throw this at the Secretary of State, since he wasn't the one who gave those interviews. But there is now a concrete idea for it, namely that there should be extra money for teachers in the forthcoming budget if the cabinet does not come out now. Then I think it is also legitimate for the Chamber to ask the Secretary of State: if that offer is made to you, how do you deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u11	Once again, I am not going to anticipate discussions on the budget. In an interview with the party leader of the Labour Party, because that is how I see it, it has been said that it is important for the Labour Party to do something about these salaries. Quite frankly, I am not surprised either, because that was already in the election programme of the Labour Party. But that is not something that has been said on behalf of the cabinet. There is a letter from the cabinet stating what the cabinet line is: it is up to another, new cabinet to talk about it. So that must be done at the formation table. If that lasts for a very long time and if the present outgoing cabinet still has to make a budget, we will discuss and weigh it in full, but then we will have these discussions first within the cabinet itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u12	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u13	The Secretary of State says it was an interview with the party leader of the PvdA. Now I am not a legal expert, but I think the leader of the PvdA does not have to sign budgets, but the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs must. This is an interview with someone who has an important position in these negotiations and who ultimately has to decide whether to sign or not. I can guess the answer, but I ask the Secretary of State what he will do with this new support for his important work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'm afraid we're really going in circles right now. I'm just refusing to anticipate that. I have never done that before, and I do not think it is wise to take an advance on the complicated puzzle that it is likely to be when a outgoing cabinet still has to make a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u15	The temptation is very great to talk about this pilot balloon now, but perhaps we will come to that later, when the Minister of Education is going to answer the question of whether she is going to sign that budget. My question concerns the adjustment of estimates or austerity, as I call it. It's in the spring note. This cabinet will decide to establish it in this way. Why didn't this cabinet, these rulers, stop a hole of 300 million, rising to almost half a billion, from being on the education budget at the moment? If we look at the challenge of education, it is a very false start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u16	Honesty commands us to say that we have solved it for the current year. This outgoing cabinet has also taken its responsibility for this. I cannot hide the fact that there is still a financial problem on the OCW budget for the coming years and that a forthcoming cabinet has to look at how it can and wants to solve this. I can't make it prettier than it is. This reflects how complicated the whole budgetary process is, because before you can even talk about some extras here and there, we really have a big task to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u17	But that sounds like there's some kind of autonomous power that makes sure there are deficits in the OCW budget, but that's not true. It's just a decision of this cabinet. You shouldn't hide that. My question is what these leaders have now done to urge their colleagues that we should not allow that deficit to arise. In other words, how can this happen at a time when we are all saying that at least we do not want to cut back on education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u18	But it is not a decision of the cabinet to put those deficits on the budget. For example, it has to do with the fact that the numbers of students have grown more than we suspected and that the numbers of students have increased. Those are autonomous setbacks. You need to see if you can fix it. For the current year, 2017, we have done so, but not yet for the coming years, because it also requires far-reaching measures. Then you should see where it comes from. Then the line is often: look at your own budget as well. Then you can see directly how complicated that is. Where's that supposed to come from? In other words, also because the cabinet is decommissioned, we have said: we are drawing up a policy-slow spring note and parking it for 2018 and beyond. This will mean that a new cabinet will have to deal with such a complex issue as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u19	Please continue. I think you had arrived at the next issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u20	I come to the function mix more generally. Mrs Becker asked why these objectives were not met. That is a question that I too have and which I have sometimes asked in administrative consultations, and sometimes also in one-to-one discussions with individual boards, employers. Then I get to hear a lot of things. You're told there's not enough money to pay LB, LC. But I find that a little strange because the money has been added. Sometimes you are told that there are not enough teachers who meet the requirements linked to LB or LC, or that sometimes there are not enough teachers who want to flow through. Sometimes you're told that school boards sometimes have different priorities and challenges. I call shrinkage, lack of teachers, tackling absenteeism. Some schools also find it difficult to break through the somewhat egalitarian culture and thus make a difference between teachers LA and teachers who give you a promotion. But to be perfectly honest, I do not think all of this is very strong arguments. Schools have been given money. A tripartite agreement has been reached between trade unions, employers and the government. It has been agreed that this money is intended for this purpose. I believe that this must be achieved. Some time ago, we had a debate on this. Mr Rog insisted on that at the time. We're at the table every month, and I've done a lot of good administrative work. I said we just have to make this happen. OCW is also involved in a whole journey there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u21	Are you done with this part of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yeah, with the part about the function mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u23	No, are you done with the part about pay and salaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u24	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u25	How long will that take you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u26	A lot of questions have been asked about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u27	Okay. I see that Mr Van Meenen wants to ask a question. Perhaps your question is included, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u28	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u29	No? You're sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yes, because the question I would like to ask is in line with the point that I believe the Secretary of State has now completed, namely the job mix. I share his view that it is impossible to defend if you have not put that money into action. However, I do not hear the Secretary of State mention an argument which is put forward by the governments in this discussion, namely that, on the material side, the funding is insufficient. I think Berenschot has recently calculated that it is EUR 375 million per year. Look, it's easy to say: spend that money on salaries, because that's what you got it for. But in the meantime, if schools have to turn off the heating and the light, then it will be a complicated matter. So maybe the Secretary of State can go back to that argument of the governments. That's a reason they call it. As a result, at least some of them have failed to put their teachers in those higher scales.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u31	First of all, I would like to say the following. Berenschot, the research office, also writes very explicitly in his report that, on the basis of the research carried out, it cannot be concluded that the material funding is insufficient. We have only looked at actual expenditure. What's behind that is very hard to figure out. Now I think the system is a bit old-fashioned, because it is still very much part of a declaration system. We've done one of these rounds a few times now. We do that every five years. Every time a different image comes out and the government says: we see it, but what does this mean? And then we don't really do that much with it. Secondly, I can only imagine that a school board sometimes runs into some setbacks and that some things become more expensive. At the same time, education is the only sector in the Netherlands that has not had to cut back in recent years and has not had to make significant internal efficiency cuts. Many other sectors have done so. Sometimes you can ask the field, the school administrators, to look at that as well. You can slide things a little bit. Thirdly, the material funding, the money you lost, for example, to gas, water and light, may have become slightly more expensive, but the same applies to secondary education. Secondary education has complied with its commitments on the job mix. If I am the improving financial position of the p.o. I do not see any reason why primary school administrators should not simply be able to keep their appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u32	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u33	I think there were a lot of schools where the water came to the lips. That was also noted by the Court of Auditors in 2013. It's gotten a little better, but it's a lot to say: we didn't cut back. If you get the same thing every year while the costs are up, you have to cut back on balance. It's pretty easy to reason that you can spend the extra money you get for salary increases on that, too. I think the boards would have loved to do that. Anyway, we can have that discussion endlessly with each other. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is important to establish together why the objectives of the job mix have not been met, for example by conducting an investigation into them, so that we no longer speculate on what reasons this might have? Can we get that established by an independent body for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u34	I wouldn't be in favour of that. Why not? Because then you give the primary education an excuse again to wait and not have to work on it. Primary education received that money. The colleagues in secondary education keep their commitments properly. They're done. They have fulfilled all their requirements of the function mix and have also used the money to do so. I would say: go, go, employers in primary education, not only go towards the Malieveld, but also get to work in your own school organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u35	The VVD has been asking for some time how we can make sure that the money we make available via the lumpsum actually goes to quality. The cabinet has tried to enforce this by making agreements and by setting targets, but these are ultimately not achieved in practice. School boards argue for very different reasons than the reason that there would be too little money. They make their own assessment, but that does not ultimately achieve the quality we have set out to achieve. Does the Secretary of State have sufficient instruments to enforce that quality? Or does this also say something about the instruments that we should perhaps add to the lumpsum, in such cases from The Hague, to make a little more demands on how the money is spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u36	The lump sum has no subdivision with which we say: this euro must be spent precisely on it. That would greatly limit the discretion of schools. If you step away from that, the medicine is worse than the ailment. If you make an appointment with school boards and with the PO Council in which you say "you get money for this and that's what this is about," then it has to be delivered. This applies not only to the function mix, but also to the investments made by this cabinet and the agreements made in the sector agreements. If it is not delivered, it is up to the politicians to see if that is reasonable. Sometimes there can be all kinds of good reasons for that. But if it is not a good story, it is also up to the politicians to say: before we add anything extra to it, the old objectives must first be met. I believe that this is also part of education. It can't just be "more, more." We are doing this in order to improve quality, and this includes accountability for the way in which resources have been deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u37	The Secretary of State has said that he has been talking to the government about this and that he will continue to do so in the future, so that it may be reached by 40%. I have a specific question on this: if the authorities say that they are not going to achieve this for many reasons, does the Secretary of State ultimately have sufficient instruments to enforce it in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u38	We did not make the agreement that the money can be recovered from the function mix. Then Parliament could say: the money is not being used for that, so we will cut the education. I don't want to go there at all. We've given money for more salary, which makes a promotion to LB possible. So let's just do it all together. I think that's what the unions want. At least I want it very much. We're working very hard from the Ministry to see how you can do that. We are also discussing this with the PO Council. I would like to add one more thing. This promotion towards higher scales and the career perspective must of course be a quality impulse. That must go hand in hand with an upgrading of the entire HRM policy. This requires regular working meetings. This used to happen very little in education. The last time we measured that, that was a few years ago, 82% came out of it. I therefore think that education is really getting better. Of course, it may go up to 100%, but that requires that school boards are willing to judge people by what they have done, by their qualities and by their responsibilities. They should also be willing, if teachers have really taken steps, to reward that with a promotion from A to B.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u39	You've been working on the first subject for half an hour now. You still have a lot of questions to ask, and you must also address two important aspects of this debate. I would therefore ask you to speed it up a bit, because the Minister also needs to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u40	I can be brief on the next point. A response to the amendment on the Spring Note has been requested. My proposal is to discuss this in the Spring paper. This is not just about education, it is about broadening the budget. A number of questions have been asked, among others by Mrs Westerveld, but most have talked about this, such as Mr Kuzu van DENK, the VVD and Mr Rog, about the career perspective and whether we cannot do anything about it. I think that is very important. This was also one of the qualitative objectives of this function mix. There are now talks about how to give that substance to hands and feet. For example, you have to think of the leadership route or specialization in the field of care or curriculum development. Indeed, that career perspective also includes the ability to continue to grow in salary. There is room for that, as far as I am concerned. How are these conversations going? We're having those conversations in the vo and in the mbo. I can see that the look is very focused on a forthcoming cabinet. I'm sorry we're running out of time now. These are really things we could just discuss right now. So I also call on employers not to wait too long, but just to sit down and see how we can shape these career paths qualitatively. The next item I'm going to deal with is the workload. I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen, who said: if you can do something about the workload, you can make the profession so much more attractive and perhaps attract more people to education or you can tempt teachers who are already in education to perhaps work a few more days. During the debate we had on this a while ago, we discussed the issue in detail and, above all, the possibilities we have to reduce the workload. As a ministry, we can do a lot of things in that. Think of the Regulatory Pressure Agenda, simply deleting legislation and regulations that have become superfluous. Think also of the introduction of the renewed supervision. We really hear that this can also count on positive reactions in the p.o. There is greater confidence in schools; they can set their own ambitions and take their own quality measures. It is also important that administrators, school leaders and teachers critically reflect on which administration is relevant for providing good education and that they discuss it. It's not gonna happen on its own. That's why we started the Operation Rules Roaming last year. That operation is meant to look in practice where you can do that. We see in practice and we also know from research that the teaching staff suffers mainly from self-imposed rules and administration. They come from their own organization. I was at a fantastic meeting last week about the proceeds of the Operation Rules Spaaring. During that meeting, Riny van der Mark, director of the Scholen Foundation with the Bible in the Betuwe, told a whole story about how he dealt with this as a forerunner by prioritizing, by saying: we do and we don't do that anymore; we only record what is strictly necessary or what contributes to education. You'll see it's possible. To ensure that more schools can learn from those good examples of tackling unnecessary administration, we formulate lessons from the Operation Rules Spare. They cover all kinds of tools that can also be used by other schools. Right now we're working on what's going to be called "Operation Rules Space 2.0." We're doing this because we see that it's not just from one's own organization and one's own administration. In the appropriate education, this is also due, for example, to the partnerships. A new bureaucracy is being created by the joint administrations, which is sometimes not necessary. So there is a lot of room there, I say to Mrs Becker. This is in fact in line with Mr Beertema's speech. It starts with deleting rules where it can be done. Then there must also be confidence in the craftsmanship and autonomy of teachers, from the political point of view, but also from their own organisation. But teachers must also have the courage and the courage to take that space, as can also be seen in the recent study by the Education Council. It really comes from all sides. Everyone has to put their shoulders on that. The call that I make and which I have also made before, is therefore: do only the things that you have the idea of contributing to better education; stop this really and perhaps take action, not only on the Malieveld, which is your right to do so, but also in your own organisation. I would like to underline that here. It was also asked whether we could get rid of the action plans. The honest answer to that is: yes, because that is not an obligation for a school at all. I am also honest about the fact that a school should set up a development perspective for children who need care. We have all determined this, but that does not have to be a very thick book; that can also be done on two A4's. The point is that a school is thinking about a child who needs extra care: where could the child go if it gets extra care and at what level could the child eventually flow out? So I would very much like to keep that in the air, but critically consider whether it can be less, more compact and simpler, I just welcome it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u41	Were you finished with this piece on the workload? Almost?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u42	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u43	Then we'll wait for that. Oh, Mr Bertema has a very small question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u44	I'm happy every time the Secretary of State comes up with these sounds, but it doesn't come across. I called it on the Malieveld, too, and I tweeted it, but it'll be retweeted 20 times. I don't like that. It's certainly not my favorite program, but Secretary of State, please go to Jinek. Why don't you sit there instead of Erik van Muiswinkel, who's gonna sit there and talk about education? Go there and tell the whole country: girls and masters, stop it! That's when it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u45	I take every opportunity to call this out. At some point, the tiles on which these statements were recorded went all over the Internet. But I've also learned that I'm very honest in saying that it takes more than just saying this. In part, there is also disbelief among teachers: Dekker can say that, but is that really true? In part, these teachers sometimes run into a kind of clay layer in their own organizations, which makes them feel like: how do I change this on my own? Or: I'll put it on the table, but I don't get enough support. That is one of the things that we have been doing a great deal in recent times; Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Kuzu also asked about this is that this also calls for school leaders to enter it themselves, to seek space and to support their teachers in it. I see fantastic examples of that. So I see that's possible. That is also one of the reasons why we have invested much more in school leaders, because strong leadership makes an incredible difference in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u46	We're on the right track. It's a tough fight, but I think something's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u47	Proceed, Secretary of State. You were in the process of completing this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Bishop asked a number of questions about professional space and the TIAS report. I think I have already said something about the importance of this financial area, without having to go into every detail of the report. With this, I'll provoke another interruption, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u49	It is precisely because that report indicates a line that is less evident in the policy papers that I would appreciate a written response to that. This can then be taken into account in a balanced and balanced way. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm very willing to do that. After the summer we come to talk about the entire Teacher Agenda, also about these kinds of themes. I think these themes are very important. Then let's respond to what we can learn from that report. Mrs Van Brenk asked whether educational supporters could contribute to alleviating the workload. The answer to that is: yes, sure. Schools also have the space to vary in them, also in the context of the shortage of teachers. I can imagine it being said: see if you can bring down the workload, for example, by adopting a good class assistant on other matters as well. This enlightens teachers and gives them the opportunity to really focus on teaching and education. The same applies to the janitors, who Mrs Van Brenn also asked a question about. I would point out that for janitors in the National Education Agreement additional money has been paid, about 29 million. That doesn't allow all schools to appoint a full-time janitor. On average, however, some €10,000 goes to a school. You can do some things about that, for example a day or a day and a half a week. Of course larger school boards can do something more with it. Mr Van Raan asked for a response to his plan for two committees. One had to have no more inspection supervision and the other had to work from the inside out. I'm very excited about that, but those are things we're doing right now. There's a pilot running for law-abiding schools. They may themselves specify which rules they wish to exclude. With the renewed supervision we rely much more on the strength of schools themselves. We let them define their own vision and quality standards. I think that's important, because it triggers thought. That conversation in schools alone is very important. As part of the workload, Mr Van Raan also asked the question about teachers who are obliged to do the residence. Just as clear: schools are obliged to attend interim care when parents ask for it. I see in a lot of schools that this is done by reception staff or voluntary reception staff. The participation council has an advisory function if schools determine or modify this. Should the school fail to follow this advice, the co-decision board may go to the Disputes Committee. When designing the interim care, the residence, the staff section must always agree with how this is done. Let me be very clear: I do not think that the interim reception is the core task of teachers. If the staff wants to take it for themselves, it's up to them. They can decide for themselves. However, I am not surprised that schools look at volunteers, parents or professional organisations to arrange this. I'm done with the block on workload, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u51	Perhaps the Secretary of State will then be prepared to inform the Chamber as to whether this is a major problem. All I hear is that this is a big problem; that's what I've experienced myself. The Secretary of State states that schools are themselves responsible and that if teachers do not agree they do not have to do so. That's not entirely compatible. Is the Secretary of State prepared to provide information on this to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u52	I think we can do that lightly. Then I'll go to the employers and the unions. I will return to the progress report Teachers' Agenda. I'm coming up with a plan to deal with the shortage of teachers. We sent that earlier this year, in February. Mrs Westerveld wanted to know what the latest state of affairs is before we go into the summer. A lot of plans have been put into motion by now. Some of them have even been completed. At the request of the Chamber, I sent a letter stating that we are still doing a number of additional things, on top of what we promised in February. I'll walk by some things. I'll start with the regional approach. Then I would like to say something about the side-inflow, the retention of teachers and the activation of the silent reserves. The Minister will discuss in greater detail all aspects of teacher training in the near future. Examples include further training, flexible training and the influx of students into teacher training. Teacher shortages vary from region to region. In the major cities and a number of regional areas in particular, we see that the problem is the most urgent. I mention Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, but also the Gelderse Valley, for example. For me, it is important to start where the urgency is highest. In any case, that is the approach we have adopted, in consultation with the social partners. We are starting the approach in the major cities and a number of specific regions. Then we can roll that more out as it becomes more palpable in other places. Mrs van den Hul asked what measures I think are most likely to take. What do I expect the most from? I think this is very difficult to say because it may also vary from region to region. In one region, for example, you can achieve much more with a good side influx program and in another region you can do a lot with good appointments with the nearby colleges. However, we cannot afford to ignore one of these measures. So it's en-and-and-and-and not or-or. Mrs Becker asked what the regional approach would be like. We're gonna sit around the table with the school boards over there. Then you're also one-on-one, without necessarily having to guess. They are of course there, but when you talk about the metropolitan problems, for example in Rotterdam, you already have the vast majority of schools with two or three very large school boards. You have them directly at the table and they are also the direct employers, because I am not and that is not the PO Council either. So this switches directly. The regional approach also helps to make use of the power of municipalities. I see a number of very active aldermen who have their own teacher agenda. That's how we get our hands together. If we succeed in bringing everything to zero and achieving a perfect balance, Mrs Becker asked further. That's an illusion. You're always dealing with a deficit or a surplus. It is the challenge for the coming years to reduce this deficit in particular. Dan was asked for a response to the plan of the AOb, which I believe was published yesterday. I haven't been able to read it from a to z yet, but a first look gives me a positive view. It really contains a number of things that I am very much in favour of and with which I believe we can work. I mention the guidance of young people to reduce the drop-out and confidence in the teachers. At the last point, I have been working very well with the unions, also in terms of career paths. However, it also contains a number of issues such as higher salaries or smaller classes, things that cost a lot of money, which this cabinet cannot take action on at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u53	The Secretary of State said something interesting in a subtle way, namely that a number of aldermen also have teacher agendas. I know a number of examples such as bonuses for teachers working in the city. Does he think that's a good idea? This creates the situation where cities compete with each other to attract teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u54	I do not say in advance that I am against bonuses, but you should always be careful that the problem of one municipality is not solved by putting another municipality with problems. For example, you can see locally what you can do to attract more students. Mr Rog spoke about job guarantees being given, including in the backyard of the municipalities. I think that's very good. This means that someone who's getting to work now knows for sure that he can get to work after college. Those are very creative things where a community can help. Then some things have been said about the influx of the side. The Minister will come back to this in detail. Mr Bishop has also asked critical questions about a number of routes. Again, for both of us, quality is at the top. In anticipation of the regional approach, for example, we have contact with the G-4 about the shortage of teachers. We received the signal from the municipality of Amsterdam that teachers of secondary education would like to work in primary education. Then you have to think of the so-called surplus subjects, subjects for which there are still more teachers than there is work, for example history. Those teachers/teachers are now not eligible for the grant scheme. As a result, the school board does not receive any support for the guidance and supplementary training. The municipality of Amsterdam finds this undesirable. I agree, and then you try to solve it as practically as possible. That is the advantage of such a regional approach: just getting to work in practice. For this reason, we will also broaden the grant scheme to this target group. Mr Kwint asked how this subsidy scheme was not exhausted in the past, particularly in primary education. I can see that, too. That is because the situation in primary education was a very different one or two years ago. Then there was no shortage at all. We then had discussions in this Chamber about the fact that the students of the pabo did not come to work. Now we are really at a turning point in this respect. I cannot imagine that employers in primary education will not make use of this scheme. I'm moving on to maintaining teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u55	Before you continue, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u56	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I have a very enlightening question. Is that all that's to do with that? We probably need this arrangement very much at this time. It would be a shame if we suddenly found out that all kinds of practical matters were not properly arranged, because then we might not make the most of them. What if, at one time, there is an over-spending because a lot of applications are now being made, is there still scope for broadening this scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u57	If there are practical things, then we are very open to them. I also invite employers to report it when they run into something. Then we will take a real look at it. If we run out of money at some point, we will have to look at it again. That doesn't mean that suddenly there's a whole bucket of money because we have a machine in a room somewhere in the tower. At the same time, however, I think that, if there is anything that can help extra side-instromers to have a power, we really need to look at it in real terms, given the challenge we face. Some questions have been asked about the preservation of teachers. That too is one of the things we can do better. If we succeed in reducing the drop-out of students who have obtained their diplomas and entered into work, that is another small contribution to reducing the shortage of teachers. Mr Bruins and Mrs Becker asked. We see that the schools have really made a few meters in this area. In the Teachers' Agenda, we have focused on better guidance for starters. The number of starters indicating to get guidance has increased, from 72% in 2014 to 79% in 2015. I think that this number will only increase further, and that is very positive. Can the guidance be improved and can you do more to hold on to early teachers, for example with fixed contracts? We are not, of course, talking about contracts and collective agreements, but I note two things. Firstly, good employers can hardly afford to keep really good teachers with only temporary contracts each time. If I were an employer, given the shortage of teachers coming up, I'd want to tie people to me. You do that with a permanent contract rather than with a temporary contact. Secondly, through the replacement pools, which are emerging in more and more places in our country, you are able to bind people who are sometimes temporarily in front of the class more to you. That too is a positive development. Then I'll go into the silent reserves. There's still potential unexploited. When I look around this room, I also see a small quiet reserve. In many places there are people who do have an educational competence, but are not in front of the classroom. Sometimes they do a very good job, but there are also people who have left the labour market. They don't work anymore. They may want to get back to work, but then things have to be cleaned up a little bit. Furthermore, many qualified teachers are covered by the Participation Fund. Those teachers are getting benefits now. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er in totaal zo'n 6.000.]] If we can get them back to work, the knife will cut on both sides and maybe even on three sides. One, these people have jobs. Two, there's an extra master or teacher in front of the class. Three, not insignificant: these benefits are now paid by the educational organisations themselves. If you can get them out of the bins, it'll really serve everyone. I understand that this may not work for all 6,000, but let's get started sometime. Rotterdam started with that. That's where they did speed dates. We also make it possible, especially for people who have been out of work for more than a year, to start a refresher course again. This too may contribute to reducing the deficit. It's en-and-and-and. Mr Van Meenen asked what the possibilities are for people to work less part-time. Some school boards demand it and ask teachers to work for at least four days. In primary education, much more than in other types of education and other sectors, we see a lot of part-time work. This also has to do with combining work and care. At the same time, research shows that there are best opportunities when you ask people about it.Of course, that question needs to be asked, and it also has to be addressed, such as career prospects. And if you're going to work more, you'll get extra pay for the hours you work more, of course. At least as an employer, I'd start those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u58	I think the Secretary of State was done with the subject of silent reserves. I've previously filed a motion on the over-statutory WW benefit. This involves more than EUR 100 million in three sectors, i.e., vo and mbo. You could achieve 1,600 full-time jobs for that, so much more hands in the classroom. Does the Secretary of State have any idea whether the social partners, as the motion calls for, are finally going to work to make money for education not go to inactivity, but to extra hands in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u59	Was it a motion or an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u60	This was a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u61	The social partners have discussed it and have somewhat weakened the super-statutory WW scheme, partly in the light of the WWW. This does not immediately yield any revenue, but only in the future. She's not completely finished. It is therefore still possible to take steps. You're from that world and you know as well as I do that this isn't up to the government. This will have to be agreed between the social partners. But if you look at the super-legal WW, that will indeed give more room for education money in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u62	Does the Secretary of State still see a role for himself to pursue this? Trade unions are also hoping that there are too few hands in the classroom. As a result, the workload is high, but they can also contribute to this. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u63	Yes, that's right, but at the same time the collective bargaining is complicated. I have the impression that it doesn't always help the process the more I get involved. At least I'm always told I'm not about it. In fact, the social partners are right about that. However, in the current collective agreements, I do see room for improvement in the modernisation of working conditions. This makes it better for the people who work in education. Perhaps a more thinning collective agreement would also be very important. This also ensures that educational euros really go to the children in the classroom. Mr Bishop asked a question about AOW'ers. We do not write about this in our letter, but that too is indeed a quiet reserve. Why shouldn't people who are a little older stay in front of the class a little longer if they want to? In the past we have had a project in secondary education, which I think was called Wis Grey. You could see if something like that would fit in with primary education. I will at least take the suggestion; thank you for that. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn asked me about a generation pact. I'm always very much in favour of looking at what you can do in your social agreements to ensure that people can continue to work as long as possible. In trade union terms, however, and this is Mrs Van Brenk's background, this is often accompanied by less work as you get older. With the BAPO, we wanted to take that out a little bit. In any case, this does not help to reduce the shortage of teachers. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u64	It was also about the integration of early teachers by older teachers. I made that combination. The Secretary of State doesn't quote that. It's very important. The Secretary of State indicated that people would fall out in the first year. How does he look at the fact that there is mainly a role for the older teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u65	In fact, that is different from a broad generational pact, in a collective agreement. It is therefore a question of providing good guidance to young teachers by experienced teachers. That's what I'm all for. In fact, the two of us are also very much encouraging that schools of young teachers should not be thrown into the deep end. The experience of some older workers is very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u66	If we're not careful, this means another tax on the older teacher. I imagine it would cost a little more money to get this done at first. We occasionally differ on whether there is enough money. In the view of the Secretary of State, that is the case. I keep saying that sometimes the cost is for the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u67	Yes, it is quite true that sometimes the cost is for the benefit, but I think that is a trade-off that employers could also make very well. You shoot yourself in the foot if you don't invest in the guidance of young teachers because you don't want to schedule someone for a few hours. You'll run a much higher risk of the young teacher dropping out, with all the consequences of that, and you'll lose him. This really belongs to good employership. There's a lot of work going on to pull that on a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I shall suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. I begin by expressing my appreciation for all the masters and teachers who are passionate about the class every day. I appreciate that they are helping all our children in the world, despite the workload they experience and the sometimes negative publications about their profession, the colleagues they have to replace and all the other challenges they face. We are indeed inclined to add a challenge to it. They help our children grow into responsible citizens who can use their own talents and find their way into society. At a school, the world comes together. A school is the world in small size. This makes the profession of teacher one of the most beautiful but also one of the toughest professions. This means that the training courses to become teachers, the pabo but also the other teacher training courses, are perhaps the most important courses that colleges and universities have to offer. If things don't go well there, not only does it affect all parts of education, but it affects society as a whole. In short, they deserve our appreciation and attention. I would like to stress that there is also a great deal of demand from school leaders. In the regions where the deficits are now occurring, the Secretary of State has addressed them extensively and they face the challenge of continuing to provide good education for every child even in the event of a temporary failure of teachers. The shortage of teachers is an urgent issue. That also deserves our attention. The Secretary of State has already indicated that we did not start yesterday. We have been working on this for the past four and a half years, including within the framework of the Teacher Agenda, which we have developed together. It starts with the question of how to recruit the right people for teacher training and ends with the question of how to keep it interesting for someone who has been working in education for 40 years, so that he or she can continue to teach with energy and creativity. That is a joint responsibility of us, of the schools, of your Chamber, of the teachers, of the unions, of teacher training. So that's really something we need to do together. Like I said, it starts with the right people stimulating for the pabo. Then you have to offer them a good education. I would like to stress that we are not going for easy solutions. The so-called green picking, Mrs van den Hul spoke about the pabo's, is an apparently easy but unacceptable solution. I understand from the pabos that, fortunately, there is no structural trend here yet. Above all, we must keep it that way. The examples from the media are incidents which are not always well defined. For example, in the case of the second year student to whom a paid internship was offered through a commercial agency, the relevant pabo did not agree at all. So that pabo acted wisely. The inspection has announced that it will monitor the improper deployment of pabo students in the coming period. I'm glad about that, because students without a good degree can't be allowed to leave the pabo. In general, teacher training is a good thing. That too is important to note. I'd like to do anything to get more students to teacher training, but I'm not prepared to interfere with the quality requirements. We've raised it, and we've done it very consciously. The worst thing we can do, I think, is to say to Mrs Westerveld in particular, is to pursue a zigzag policy by saying: it is going to be difficult for a moment; then we are going to weaken the demands again. Soon we will have exactly the situation we found a few years ago. The image of teacher training was poor. We had a huge outburst. There were a lot of complaints about teacher training. We need to get rid of that. We can get rid of that too, because these training courses are good for it. The pabos were exceptionally well accredited a few years ago. Quality continues to be important, even in times of shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u70	I would like to distance myself from the suggestion that we want to interfere with quality, because I did not say that. GroenLinks' proposal concerned the tests that students have to make of the HAVO and the MBO before they enter, if they have not had subjects such as geography. I have also asked the Minister whether, for example, it is already visible that there have been better teachers in recent times. That is what we are very much asking ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u71	I cannot answer the last question immediately, because it is too early to see how the students who came from the pabo after the tightening of the demands are doing. What I can tell you, however, is that Mr Rog also referred to the fact that we see that the pabo's have seen their inflow drop in the year of introduction, but that there has been an increase after that and that the flow rates after the introduction of the requirements clearly show a significant drop in outage. We have tightened those influx requirements not only to improve the image, but also because the pabos complained that, if they had to catch up so much to the level, they simply couldn't make good use of the time to train students into a starting position in four years. There is only one way for us to do that, and the House can appeal to me to do so, and we will do everything we can to help prospective students who do not meet these requirements to catch up, but I do not want to interfere with the demands themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u72	I think we'll deliver good teachers if we make sure they have a good education. That is, of course, partly a question of experience. What would the Minister think of the suggestion to use these tests to determine at the start of the training which possible deficiencies are still present? Then it can be ensured that pupils who need it can eliminate deficiencies or deficiencies in knowledge in the years of training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u73	So there is a problem there, because that means that teacher training already has an extra task. What we want to do is make sure that those deficiencies are eliminated before they start teacher training. You can do that with programs like Good prepared to the pabo. We invest in this and that helps to ensure that upcoming students can participate in the regional approach, with customization, in order to eliminate their deficiencies. It's going well. This year 2,400 students have already participated in the well prepared course to the pabo. The course will also be offered next year, with extra space for the recruitment of students and more specific guidance in preparation for the admission tests. So I hope that meets your desire to intensify that guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u74	I understand very well the Minister's answer and I know that things are getting better, but still not all students on the pabo find their training challenging enough. That, I think, would be a good idea if we were to say: you can flow in here and we will ensure that where there are still deficits, they are eliminated with a tailor-made programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u75	You mentioned the pabo and that is a general education. We also customize that program, because it depends on what deficiencies you have. If you're from the Havo, you may not have a deficiency. If you've followed the right selection program on the Havo, you've got everything. If you're from the MBO, you've had a deficiency before. We're starting extra early now. We now guide them from the beginning of, for example, the MBO training for teaching assistant, in what they still have to do to get well on the pabo. In the MBO we have introduced choir parts. Those are all ways of getting as good as you can when you start. If there is anything left, then a pabo can guide you there, especially in the first year. Then there is the possibility, if it really is not possible, of giving a binding study opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you to Mrs Westerveld for bringing this up. 'Cause I had to think about myself for a second. I'd love to and often do that. When I started my teacher training, I had quite a few shortcomings for the economics field, but that could be solved during the study. My question to the Minister is therefore: if this is possible with teacher training for secondary education, why not with the pabo?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u77	Because we have established that these deficiencies are so great at some point that they can no longer be eliminated. The pabo has four years to get someone started. If you say you're not good at something yet, you can go through a support trajectory. Mrs Westerveld asked if that would be free of charge. Let me also answer that question equally: yes, these support routes are free of charge. So you have to do them, but that doesn't require any extra vouchers. We can make that guidance as good as we can. Even if there is doubt in the first year, you can go to the pabo. Well, then you'll have to show it to me in the first year. Suppose, for example, you have to do a calculation key, at the level of group 8+. Students may then make three attempts to pass that test. It is up to the pabos how they support the students in this, as with the other tests during the course. But the shortcomings must be such that the pabos do not have to get rid of so much that they do not come to the essential parts of the training. We also made that decision a few years ago with broad support from the Chamber. You can talk to me about everything when it comes to the question of how we can even better accompany upcoming students. But if we really want to improve the image of teachers, including those in primary education, then we must continue to make high demands on the students at the pabo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u78	I note that this is indeed exactly the same as in teacher training for secondary education. If nothing is done about the basic deficiencies, then you won't come up with it either. So that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u79	On the understanding that we have deliberately raised a number of demands at the pabo in recent years, because the fallout was huge and there were complaints about the pabos. Moreover, a very large proportion of those who did graduate at the beginning of their career fell out very quickly, because they were actually not well prepared for work as a teacher or master at an elementary school. In short, we are doing everything we can to guide this well. In this context, let me also say that we are taking specific actions to interest MBOs, many of whom have recently dropped out, in relation to the pabo. I have given the major cities of Rotterdam, Amsterdam and The Hague the agreement for an additional pilot, which provides specific support to MBOs for those who are well prepared to go to the pabo is not the obvious path. In particular, these are mbo-students from courses other than those of an educational assistant. Speaking of teaching assistants, Mr Kwint asked if there would be any profit if we were to retrain teaching assistants who have graduated at MBO level and are already working as an educational assistant. No, they can make use of the training budgets that employers have. By the way, I like the idea of using the teacher's fair for this, but this cannot be done within the current regulations for the teacher's fair. These regulations are now being evaluated; I believe that the Secretary of State has said the same. That's what the Chamber gets information about. This is one of the elements that could be included. I would also like to say a few words about research that we have had done on the considerations of study voters to choose whether or not to be a teacher. This is also important for recruitment and for the image that students have of teaching. The results of the study are identical to the letter on the shortage of teachers sent to the Chamber. Mrs Westerveld asked what the career opportunities and wishes are. That research shows that career opportunities and opportunities for professional development are reasons to renounce the profession of teacher. Other reasons that are mentioned are lack of challenge, financial reward and a professional working environment. Yeah, I'm saying reward is relevant, but it's not the only relevant factor. We have done a lot to create variation in career opportunities. We have worked hard on this, so that someone can not only become a teacher or teacher and then become a school leader, but also teacher-designer, teacher-official, teacher-researcher or whatever. The research also shows that job security and the ability you have as a teacher to mean something to others are the main reasons for choosing the profession of teacher. The job security is often assessed lower by pupils and MBO 4 students than that of their preferred profession. This means that the growing shortage of teachers is accompanied by good opportunities for obtaining a job as a teacher in the future, but this is not yet widely known among the respondents. So there is work to be done to improve this information. That is our responsibility. I am also pleased that a number of pabos are now issuing job guarantees, because that is an additional incentive for prospective students to go to the pabo. In terms of improving the image of teachership, havists and MBO 4-students value smaller classes. Vwo'ers value career prospects and intellectual challenges more. An interesting observation, which I would like to share with you, is that most students and MBO 4 students underestimate a teacher's salary, initial salary and maximum salary. As many as 94% of respondents underestimate the initial salary in primary education. So it's good to talk about salary here, and I certainly don't want to run away from it, but let's not paint a negative picture. I care about the 94%. I think that there is work to be done to put the right perspective. As Minister of Higher Education, I can also do so by making even better mention, in the context of Study Choice123, of the average starting salary of graduates and ensuring that this information is made public in the study leaflet as well. So I will also bring this information to the attention of the Study Group in Figures. Mrs Becker and Mr Rog asked for specialization for kindergarten girls. We've talked about that a lot. On the one hand, we want broad-based teachers, because it can also secure the continuous learning lines and provide flexibility in the system. On the other hand, we also want room for specializations. This is why pabos train teachers for the entire primary education, with the broad competence, but also with a specialization on the young or the older child. I therefore believe that we have secured the situation to which Mrs Becker also refers in such a good way. Mr. Rog asked about the Teachnasium. We have also talked about this before. This is a nice initiative of the Christian Hogeschool Ede, which collaborates with four Rotterdam vo-schools. At the moment, the concept is in the final phase. Next month, the schools decide whether they will actually start from the coming school year. From OCW we think constructively. We've been doing that lately. For the time being, no cases have been identified that stand in the way of this initiative. I think this is a nice initiative that can also contribute to recruiting more people for the fine course of teacher. Mr Bruins and Mr Kuzu spoke about the men on the pabo. We discussed this issue extensively with each other at the beginning of February. I would add that I very much like to have more men on the pabo because I attach very much to diversity. I think it's good for young children to be able to identify themselves. I would also like to see more diversity in other areas, for example in the area of pre-training. That's why they're mbos. But I also want people with a migrant background. They are also found more in the flow from the MBO than in the regular havists and vwo'ers. So these are all reasons for continuing to bet on that. Fortunately, I note a positive development in this area, because the number of male students has increased since 2012 from one in five to almost one in four. I started a forerunner group a few years ago. A lot more Masters. Eighteen pabo's are now participating in this. These pabo's from this forerunner group now see an influx of 30% to almost 40% male first-year students. That's a really big change. Perhaps there are not enough yet in absolute numbers, as Mr Bruins said, but at least in recruitment power. I say to Mr Kuzu: they are all ambassadors to us. Those are the people who tell that story again. Those are the masters Bart of the future. If we can recruit more men, there will also be a different emphasis on themes. That'll help with that, too. There might be a little more emphasis on nature and science. On average, there are more men who prefer to work with that. I'm putting the emphasis on "average." Maybe these guys are gonna shape the sports class a little rougher. In short, they can make a nice contribution. A good example is the Teachers College of the Windesheim University of Applied Sciences. There is a great deal of freedom of choice. Students there are internships in both p.o. as vo. There they develop widely on themes such as innovation, ICT and internationalisation. And there were the men in the majority for the first time in this first year. So things are moving in the right direction, Madam President. More masters in class. I support everyone who's doing that. Mr Bruins has made a fine note and a joint plan on this. That's what we talked about in February. He asked me to support that. I have said that I am prepared to do so, as long as it comes from the sector. I understand that this is being done and that it is being worked on by different parties: by men's groups, by pabos, by different master movements. I look forward to receiving that plan. I would be happy to see if I can make a contribution to this in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u80	There's a lot to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr Kwint was actually there earlier. Then I sent him away. Yeah, it's okay? Mr. Kwint can take it, he says. That's nice. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr President, thank you very much. I would also like to thank Mr Kwint. There's a lot to do to make salaries in primary education. The Minister indicated that she did not run away from that discussion. However, her answer to the question asked was: we should better mention it in the study leaflet. I ask the Minister whether she thinks that this is sufficient to address the problem that many teachers are experiencing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u83	No. That's what I said. I was working on how we could interest upcoming students in teacher training. Then it is important that we give them the right information. One of the things they obviously have wrong information about is about the salary. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u84	The minister's probably feeling it coming by now. The Minister is currently a missionary. Is she willing to sign the Prince's Daypieces as the teachers in the p.o. Don't you want to get a paycheck?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u85	I will return to that question in a moment. This was only in the context of recruitment for teacher training. And again, salary matters, but salary isn't the only thing, and that was the core of my argument when it comes to getting the right students to teacher training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u86	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u87	So I understand the Minister's coming back to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yeah, that's what she said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u89	I'm not gonna rule out the fact that I'm gonna call in again by then. Is this the end of the block "enthusiasm people to do teacher training"? I had asked another question about the suitability test for side-intromers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u90	I'll get to that. I'm not finished by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u91	Then I get in the way of my own enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'll tell the minister she can be brief, too. We also have a bill that needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to answer Mr Bishop's questions about the crash course. That still has to do with the image and whether it doesn't get dented. No, as far as I'm concerned. Because unlike the name suggests, these crash courses are not meant to quickly acquire a competence, but rather to get acquainted with the profession, following the example of the Amsterdam initiative, and to see which route the interested party can obtain a competence. In this way, the crash courses can contribute to the reduction of fallout, including from side instromers, especially by looking at whether the profession really suits them, so also whether they are suitable to go to teacher training. Mr Van Raan asked what we have already done. I think we've said enough about that. I'll just say that it takes some time. These are not solutions where when you sign a law or make an arrangement, you immediately see a change in one year. That is why, in my opinion, we should continue to focus on the path we are taking and learn from initiatives which are going well and which are not going well. Mr Van Meenen asked for a response to the AOb's delta plan. I've only had a quick look at that, because I just got it. We recognize a number of themes from that job plan in our plans, such as teacher retention, guidance of start-ups, professionalisation of teachers. Other measures mentioned cost a lot of money. This concerns not only an increase in wages, but also a new old-age scheme. That is one way of making teacher training more financially attractive. I'd like to study it all, but I'm more interested in it now. I see that they also indicate that the Secretary of State has already said this; I am not going to repeat that much of it is also up to the social partners. We have students who go straight to teacher training, but very important are also the side-intromers. I think there's still a lot of potential out there. The side-intromer may choose to obtain his/her authority through full-time, shortened, part-time or dual teacher training, or through the side-inflow pathway. The latter means that a side-intromer may stand directly in front of the classroom. In the general discussion on the Teacher Agenda, we discussed the importance of motivating this group to choose the profession of teacher. It is important that they are offered a route that fits what they already know and can do. I promised at that time that I would talk to representatives of teacher training. We have had a lot of discussions recently with side-intromers, teachers and schools from both p.o., vo and mbo. Last Tuesday, I put all these perspectives together. That was a stimulating meeting, in which much could be picked up from practice to see what could be even better. For example, it's about finding and getting interested in side-instromers. That doesn't go through regular vacancies. You have to do it another way. You need teachers who can act as ambassadors and you need matching conversations where people can go open and without all kinds of obligations. We can see if we can do more for side-instromers; I learned that last Tuesday. We need flexibility and customization. Luckily, teacher training already does a lot of work on that. They are increasingly working with competences acquired elsewhere. There are educational programmes that work with learning outcomes. This means that students do not need to follow a fixed programme, but that they need to look at what they still know and can do on a case-by-case basis. That's a lot more customized. We've inserted the educational module at universities. This is an easy way of getting to know education and, in the meantime, gaining a limited second degree competence. A number of university lectures have also started with this. There are also a number of tailor-made pathways to make this education more accessible. What we can do even better is to consider the Chamber as a commitment to consider how we can bring all the things we have now together much better. I notice the communication isn't good enough. There are quite a lot of people who want something and who are interested in the profession of teacher. We've had an investigation done by Motivation. The preliminary results show that as many as 40% of workers with educational level MBO 4 and above who are not currently teachers or teachers in training show an interest in teaching in the p.o., vo or mbo. This would perhaps be the easiest for MBO, because many professionals could teach in their profession, and most complicated for primary education. It is a challenge to show everything that is going on and everything that we do, for the sake of shortness, and to communicate better about it. This includes not only providing tailor-made services, providing information and ensuring that there is good guidance, but also, of course, financial arrangements. It is also very important to better communicate what kind of scheme someone is eligible for and how we can help that person to find the right information. In this context, Mr Van Meenen asked whether it would be possible for teachers to qualify for legal tuition if they wanted to be retrained. We have also had this discussion before. In my letter of 7 April, following the Van Dijk/Mohandis motion, I outlined two options to maximize institution tuition fees. The most far-reaching option is to refinance second studies and allow students to pay the legal tuition fee. It's a structural cost of 180 million. Mr Van Meenen specifically asks that a second education study be conducted against legal tuition fees if the student has previously obtained a degree in this field. This can only be seen within the overall exception for second studies in the direction of care and education. During the academic year 2016-2017, more than 3,000 students attend a second study in the direction of care or education for which they pay the institution tuition fee. If a second study becomes cheaper, it is expected that the number of students will increase to the level before 2010. This will involve about 4,000 students, and the return of these will cost 30 million. At least the Chamber will have the details ready. So there is indeed a financial price on it. Moreover, we do have a number of financial arrangements that can already be used. For if you do not have the right to study funding, you can apply for an allowance under teacher policy. For students who opt for a full-time first-grade teacher training in a shortage class in the wo, there is a concession in the cost of study. There is a subsidy for side-influx into the profession, and the Secretary of State has already indicated that the target group will be expanded. A teacher who wants to be re-educated to another competence in the example of Mr Van Meenen was concerned with the retraining of history teacher to mathematics teacher... can in many cases use the teacher's scholarship. I can also report to the Chamber the following. The Minister of SZW informed the Chamber in February about the training vouchers. This is a labour market tool for people who want to go to a sector that is needed. The list of professions of opportunity is now being updated; Mr Bruins has asked for it earlier. It looks at who is eligible to use a voucher. This update is based on labour analyses. I have now been confirmed by the Social Affairs colleague that it is very obvious that the profession of group teacher is added to this list. That list will be adopted in mid-July and there will be financial support from then on. Mrs Becker asked whether the teacher's scholarship could not be spent on side-intromers as well. I have just said to Mr Kwint that the money for this cannot simply be spent on another purpose or category. For the side-intromers, we already have the side-influx scheme to which school authorities can claim, but it is currently being examined whether the amount available for a side-influxer covers the costs sufficiently. We will also come up with new information on the teacher grant at some point. Mr Kwint asked whether the fitness tests did not pose a problem for the school administration. The costs of a fitness check shall be borne by the school board. If the suitability test shows that the person can influx as a side-instreamer, the school board may apply for a grant for side-influx. This may also cover the costs of the suitability test. I have already promised the Chamber to examine the cost of the side-inflow grant. The results will be received by the Court this autumn. In the field of lateral influx, therefore, there is a lot going on in teacher training, in schools and in our schools, but the most important thing is that we bring this together and make it easier to understand. Where necessary, but that is mainly to the Chamber in view of the missionary status, we consider whether there are any shifts desirable and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u94	Let's get back to those teachers who retrained to a deficit class. The minister came up with a calculation showing that there would be about 1,000 extra students. If that's true, that would be very nice in itself. She also said that the cost would be 30 million a year. Can the Minister explain why? I charge €30,000 per student per year. I don't think that's the cost of average teacher training in medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u95	They were institutional tuition fees or legal tuition fees. During the academic year 2016-2017 there were 3,191 students who attend a second study in healthcare or education and pay institutional tuition fees. If we go back to the level of a second study from before 2010, the number of students is expected to increase. The expectation is that this will involve 4,000 students. So if you are going to pay it again, not against the institution tuition fees, but against the legal tuition fees, it will ultimately cost 30 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u96	I just don't understand. If you go from 3,100 to 4,000 students, that's 900 more students. Let me just wrap it up to 1,000 for ease. And that would cost 30 million a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u97	No, because it's not just about the 1,000 students, it's about the 3,191 students.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u98	But we're already paying for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u99	No, because they're paying the institution tuition fees now and they're going to pay the legal tuition fees. So it's a group of 4,000 students.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u100	The Minister's right. Is she finished with her speech, by the way? I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u101	No, I'd say something about the reward. That is actually all I want, because I have been asked questions about this. So I'm gonna go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u102	Before that, let's go back to the block about the fitness test. My point is a) that it's a pretty solid amount................................................................................................................................................................. Wouldn't it be easy to bring forward such an examination of fitness, in the context of regulatory pressure, but also to prevent schools from becoming overly conservative and thinking "maybe I've lost the few thousand euros and then I've already had a contract with someone"? Could you look at the possibilities of bringing forward such a fitness test, so that you could start such an examination before you enter the entire process of contract negotiations, conversations and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u103	I'm gonna check on my associates. Mr Kwint is talking about less administrative burdens, but I can imagine that now I think that this might also lead to more burdens. I have already promised the Chamber that I will examine the cost of the subsidy inflow on the occasion of the Bruins motion. Let me see if we can include this question in that investigation, or I shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u104	The Minister calls training vouchers. I asked a few questions yesterday to her colleague Asscher, asking him to consult Minister Bussemaker. But I have the opportunity now to bring this up on my own. Training vouchers are limited: people up to 50 years of age can make use of them. We really see this as a form of age discrimination. The ESC has recently recommended that the use of these vouchers should be extended to the AOW age. Would the Minister like to take that advice to heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u105	I would like to take this to heart, but I am mainly going to pass that on to Mr Asscher, because your question is a general question about training vouchers. I said something about it here because it is relevant to the shortages in the education labour market. I am glad to be able to report positive news in this respect. Finally, I come to the questions about the reward. The Secretary of State has already addressed this in detail. Actually, I don't have much to add to that. In the letter that the Secretary of State and I sent to the Chamber on Monday, you read that there is currently no room within the OCW budget to meet a generic salary increase. You have also read that we are dealing with setbacks. I would also like to say personally to Mr Van Meenen that these are not cuts. Politics is about whether or not you accept austerity. We have tabled a budget for 2017 that does not contain any cuts. We've provided the information for 2018. It is therefore up to the person who makes the 2018 budget to make a new assessment. The same applies to the question of whether there should be a generic increase for teachers. One possibility is that there will be a new cabinet. I am optimistic, so I assume there will be a new cabinet by then. Looking at all the electoral programmes together, I think this will present very nice plans for education. If this is not the case, and if the current cabinet is required to draft the 2018 budget, then there is an overall balance to be taken into account in all policy areas and in all the failures and failures. And yes, the leader and party leader of the PvdA, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, has said the necessary about what his commitment is in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u106	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u107	Actually, that's what I'm done with. In my view, it is no secret that I am a member of the same party as Mr Asscher. When he says interesting things about education, I take note of that, of course, and as a PvdAer I am positive about that. I would like to say once again that this does not prevent us from finding room in our budget for any far-reaching step; we also informed the Chamber on behalf of the Cabinet last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u108	I give an opportunity to interrupt, but I say that there will also be a second deadline. So if it's gonna be short, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u109	This makes the discussion very interesting again. We hear very clearly from the Minister that this cabinet does not see room to raise salaries, while two weeks ago we all read on the front page of the General Daily that the Minister for Social Affairs, indeed a member of the party and also vice-premier of this cabinet, on behalf of the cabinet, at least, that is what the newspaper said: if there is no new cabinet, we are going to make sure that money is made available in the forthcoming budget to increase teacher salaries. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Education whether what was written there is not correct. That call wasn't on behalf of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u110	I am trying to make a clear distinction in my contribution between the 2017 budget, for which we are responsible, which we made last year and which we referred to in the letters we sent last Monday and the possible responsibility of the current cabinet for the 2018 budget. Mr Asscher made a statement on this, not on the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u111	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u112	I understand that, but then I would like to ask the Minister for Education whether that proposal or Mr Asscher's appeal on the forthcoming budget has actually been said: we do not sign that budget if there is no salary increase for teachers able to do so on behalf of the cabinet of which this minister is also a member.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u113	No. Mr Asscher himself has been very clear about this. He has clearly stated his commitment to a possible responsibility that the current coalition, including the PvdA, should take for the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u114	I fully agree with the Minister. He has even been so clear that he has said that he will not put his signature under the budget if that extra money does not come and if this cabinet still has to take care of the budget of 2018. He expects all PvdA ministers not to do so. My question to this PvdA Minister is therefore whether it is. In that case, will it not sign the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u115	I think those questions are too far away for now. It is still two months before that budget is made. I told you, I'm an optimistic man. I assume that there are parties who, after four and a half years of taking responsibility, want to take responsibility for completing the formation and then make that budget. If the current government has to do so, you know what the PvdA's party leader's commitment is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u116	This is the reversed world. It's not like I'm gonna start with the stakes in that dance situation. The party leader of the PvdA has done so, in addition to the Deputy Prime Minister. He said that, in the event that there is no increase in salaries in this cabinet's plans, it is quite possible; just look next to you, the PvdA ministers will withhold their signature from that budget. This question therefore arises because your own party leader has said so, not because I feel like asking that question. In fact, I wish he had never said that, because this is nothing but confusion. Again, my question to the Minister for Education is whether she is going to sign under such a budget, which does not include a salary increase for teachers. Yes or no? It's very simple: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u117	I'm not going to answer this question, because I'm going to answer my own questions. But you should know that the PvdA is the only one that has been referred to in its electoral programme before, and that it has allocated very broad funds, including in the accounts, for salary increases. If you make a budget for 2018 because others fail to form a cabinet within six months, you don't just sign with the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u118	My interest doesn't really go to the PvdA election programme, because that is easy to read online.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u119	Too bad. Too bad. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u120	What cannot be read online and what is much more interesting is the forthcoming budget. The Minister says that the negotiation effort has been clearly set out by her party leader, also by chance Deputy Prime Minister. That is not a negotiation effort, it is a result! The result is that he does not sign unless there is money for teachers, and not all of his PvdA colleagues either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u121	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u122	Is that what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u123	That's the same question. I've been clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u124	There are differences of opinion about that. I asked the same question to the Secretary of State. He said he wasn't going to conduct the negotiations in the Chamber. I have asked you the same thing now, and you are actually saying the same thing: I am not already going to take an advance on the outcome of the negotiations. Then there are two teams: Team Asscher and Team Dekker. Then the Minister of Education is more in team Dekker than in team Asscher. I think that's a wonderful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u125	I find that a very wonderful conclusion, because I do not recognize myself in any way. I have just made very clear what Mr Asscher said, that he said this as party leader and that I understand very well what he said, given what is in our election programme and for which we have been arguing for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u126	I think it's an extraordinary situation. The Minister always talks about the election programme of the Labour Party. Perhaps it is good to know that the elections have already been held and that this minister, like Minister Asscher, is part of a outgoing cabinet. A missionary cabinet fits the store. Does the Minister consider it appropriate for a Deputy Prime Minister to carry on this campaign in this way and to put things on the line in a outgoing cabinet and threaten to quit? Does she think that's appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u127	You're a missionary. That means you have to do what's right for the country. It doesn't say anything that you can only watch the store. As you are more outgoing, so as it takes longer for other parties or those who are in the process of forming to succeed in achieving results, you become less outgoing. If you get into a situation where you have to make the next year's budget six months after the elections, can you please agree with that? That does not seem unreasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u128	It is, of course, clear that a missionary cabinet becomes less missionary as it is more missionary. It is and will remain a outgoing cabinet, unless the Labour Party had at some point moved to the negotiating table and had entered into negotiations and eventually sat in the new cabinet. But the Labour Party and Asscher didn't do that. That's a choice. But now the minister's acting like she's still a missionary. She tries to push through a PvdA plan to pay p.o. and to continue to grow apart in the forthcoming budget debate. To be honest, I find that rather inappropriate. I believe that the Minister, whom we know as someone with a moral compass and who appeals to everyone that you should act according to the right rules, should withdraw from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you for the compliment, but I'm really sorry I disagree with you. If you have views in a missionary period and that period is taking longer and longer, that is not a bad thing. You're getting less outgoing because there's just things coming at you that need to be solved. In the event that others do not succeed in smoothing and completing the formation, this might be the creation of a new budget. If you've been a missionary for six months and you have to do something policy-related like drawing up a budget, that's always policy-related, don't ask those who do that that they just sign off on the cross. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u130	The Minister does not have to distance himself from the statements of her party leader from the DENK Group. We would like to ask her to embrace it. She has said that she has been very clear on this, but I do not think I am the only one who does not fully understand it. You can understand the views of the PvdA, you can understand that particular position in the light of the electoral programme, but I also think it is right that we should clarify the teachers, the teachers that are now involved. So very specific is the question: sign the Minister, the outgoing, if there is no money in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u131	That question has just been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u132	That question has already been asked a number of times and I think I have been very clear about it. There is a difference between the 2017 budget and making a possible budget for 2018. If it is August and we see what the state of affairs is, whether or not others have managed to form a cabinet, you will hear from us, from the PvdA narrow section in the cabinet, what conclusions we draw. You may know how we, as party members, feel about the increase in salaries. You have been able to read all of this, and I am not going to repeat it, because then I will wake up the irritation of Mr Rog, who is not interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u133	That won't be the first time, so that's okay. However, there is a clear difference between the line and the clarity of Demissionary Minister Asscher at the moment and that of Demissionary Minister Bussemaker. I see that the Minister is postponing it until August, when Minister Asscher made it quite clear: no, there is no signature. My conclusion is that there is a difference between the views of the two directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u134	These are the words of Mr Kuzu. I am also talking about August and the budget for 2018. Mr Asscher also mentioned this. Mr Kuzu will understand that if Minister Asscher says sensible things, I have no reason to distance myself from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u135	We now move on to the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions, that is to say one third of the total speaking time. If you don't mind if I give you a tip? If you have a lot of motions, I'd start right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, today we have not been given any more clarity as to whether or not the cabinet wants to increase salaries. The Minister for Education clearly says no and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment says yes. GroenLinks sees this as a sufficient encouragement to challenge the cabinet to take action. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that teachers' salaries in primary education are significantly lower than those in secondary education;]] [[calls on the government, in the 2018 budget, to make proposals for a structural reduction of workload and a structural increase in salaries in primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the influx into teacher training has fallen sharply;]] [[whereas current forecasts show that the shortage of primary school teachers is up to 10,000 full-time jobs in 2025;]] [[calls on the Government, together with teacher training in regions with an increasing shortage of pilots, not to impose additional admission requirements for teacher training;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the influx into teacher training has fallen sharply;]] [[whereas current forecasts show that the primary education deficit is up to 10,000 full-time jobs in 2025;]] [[Whereas teacher training must be of sufficient quality;]] [[Whereas students should be given the opportunity to eliminate deficiencies during their training;]] [[considers that the final terms should be maintained;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with teacher training courses, to find out what additional support students need in the fields of language and mathematics, history, geography and physics;]] [[calls on the Government also to discuss with the training courses ways to offer these courses without additional costs for the student,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kwint and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-267]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-268]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u137	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that government, employers and employees agreed in the LeerStrength Action Plan a "function mix" whereby from 2015 48% of primary education teachers would be scaled up LB (or 40% in LB and 2% in LC) and the government added the resources to the lumpsum;]] [[Considering that trade unions and PO Council have not complied with these agreements since 2015 and that only 26% of teachers in primary education have now been scaled up in LB;]] [[calls on the government to urge the social partners to comply with the agreement on the mix of functions in primary education, which would increase the number of teachers to a higher salary scale,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a compliment. I would like to express my appreciation for the tone of the Secretary of State in this debate. Compared to previous debates, I hear a real difference in income differences in primary and secondary education. I also appreciate the statement that the teacher shortage cannot be solved alone with more money. I want to thank him for that. I would like to inform the Secretary of State and, in fact, the Minister that they may be more enthusiastic when they receive a present from the Deputy Prime Minister. Let me at least hope that we will see that in the next budget. The Secretary of State sometimes plays the boards of primary schools too easily. Especially when you say you don't want to do anything about the lumpsum. Either it's their fault, and then you're gonna do something about it, or it's not their fault, and then it's not their fault, but I found this contraction a little too easy. In conclusion, I shall table a motion on the teaching assistants. I thank the Minister for at least considering whether it is possible to include this in the teacher voucher. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[Whereas there are already active teaching assistants who may be highly qualified to obtain a teacher's qualification in primary education, but are not eligible for this compensation because they have received MBO training;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a detailed plan in cooperation with teaching assistants, schools and teacher training to stimulate and facilitate the flow of teaching assistants and to make proposals taking into account the problems of loss of income and high costs for tuition fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27932-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mr. Chairman. We have debates on education all day today. First it was about vocational education, now it is about the shortage of teachers. Then you wonder what we've made in one day. On salaries, the Minister says that she will be clear in August, while the leader of the PvdA has been very clear about this. With regard to career prospects, reference is made to autumn and to a study to be carried out. So I'm afraid to make a motion, but I'm gonna do it anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women are twice as interested in teacher training for primary education as men;]] [[Considers that the enthusiasm and activation of men for the teaching profession is important for solving the shortage of teachers and benefits the reflection of the teachers' corps of society;]] [[Whereas there should be a sound understanding of the reasons why men are less inclined to work as teachers in order to take measures to achieve this;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the concrete reasons why men are less inclined to train teachers and become teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for answering the questions. Also thank you for the small commitment to put the research into remaining on paper. The contribution of the Party for Animals was mainly about trust and giving more instruments to the teachers themselves, more control and more participation. That wasn't followed. That's why there's two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the lack of time in primary education is acute;]] [[Whereas teachers in primary education themselves provide the best guarantee of quality and understanding of what does and what does not work;]] [[calls on the Government to compile a committee to inspect the inspection of primary education and to give it every opportunity to identify the bottlenecks in education in relation to the education inspection;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate the said committee generously;]] [[calls on the Government to make the recommendations of the Committee binding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas our education is under great regulatory pressure and limited resources and human resources;]] [[noting that the lack of time in primary education is acute;]] [[Whereas teachers in primary education themselves provide the best guarantee of quality and understanding of what works and what does not;]] [[calls on the government to set up a committee on trimming primary education and to give this committee every opportunity to identify the bottlenecks in education in relation to their work;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate the said committee generously;]] [[calls on the Government to make the committee's recommendations binding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-272]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr. Chairman. We were all on the Malieveld a few days ago and heard the teachers' concerns. Today we are in the Chamber. The good news is that what we really debated today about what we said then, namely not to close the door but to see what is more possible than just a call for more money. What more can we do to make the teaching profession attractive? The government's replies on how it works are satisfactory. Of course, as a Chamber, we would like to be kept informed of how this progress is being made, for example on Operation Rules Spare 2.0, which should really ensure that the impact of appropriate education in the classroom is reduced on the workload. We also like to stay informed about progress with more career paths. So we would like to look forward to the research after the summer and expect concrete steps, even if the Secretary of State indicated that things are sometimes slow. We are also curious what the Secretary of State will do to reach the 40%. We welcome the motion tabled by Mr Rog on this matter. Let's not just look at The Hague. We also talked about what schools can do themselves. An increasingly professional working environment is emerging. I am pleased to see and to hear that the Secretary of State continues to work to encourage schools all with professionalism and the challenge of teachers. I have no further motions. This is it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. Bringing peace, regularity and structure back into education is the reverse revolution we need. Go back to stomping tables. Go back to tailings. Take care of rest and structure. Last time I tabled a motion on abolishing the LA scale. After that, a lot happened, especially with the PvdA. She voted against that motion. I am going to recycle it, because I would like to give Mr Asscher another chance to read it. Then he doesn't have to beat around him so wildly and threaten not to sign budgets and stuff. So it's actually a second chance. I'm a real teacher; I always give people a second chance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both primary and secondary teachers have completed HBO training, except for exceptions;]] [[noting that similar competences are required for both types of education;]] [[Considers that, partly because of the low pay, the profession of primary education teacher has become so unattractive that there is a risk of dramatic teacher shortages;]] [[noting that research has shown that the growth of expenditure per pupil (1.9% annually, between 1998 and 2012) has resulted in a significant growth of non-teaching staff, but not in smaller classes, more teachers or higher salaries;]] [[calls on the Government to halt the growth of staff who are not employed in the primary process of education in p.o., vo. and ho. to reduce this number of non-educational staff and to use the resources released to abolish the lowest salary scale for primary school teachers, LA, so that they now fall into the LB salary scale as well as second-level teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u143	I would just like to point out that the third paragraph, which begins with 'considers that', is new.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions and responding to certain requests. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to respond in writing to TIAS's investigation, because I believe that it will soon be possible to add value to the regulatory burden and the transshipment that is sometimes involved in dealing with this issue. I had prepared a motion on this, but I am not filing it. I have enough of the promise. I look forward to that effect with interest. Finally, I would ask the directors to draw more attention to the opportunities that people have to continue working after reaching the AOW age, for which measures have been taken over the past period. I have the feeling that sometimes what is all possible does not fully see through, while there is a considerable reservoir for people who can contribute to solving the problem. My request is therefore to draw attention to this more explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u145	Mr. Chairman. I see a hook to remove an irritation point of 50PLUS, so I take my chance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lifelong learning is of great importance;]] [[Whereas they are of great importance, including for education;]] [[Whereas an age limit of 55 years for training vouchers is undesirable and discriminatory;]] [[calls on the government to remove the age limit for training vouchers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u146	I have a question on the motion, so that my group can give its opinion on it later. I myself have sometimes tabled such motions. Is this a cost-neutral motion or does it have an open end, where everyone over 55 can also...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u147	No. We understand that there is a certain budget. When we're out, we're out. You will be able to see an amendment from us next week on this point, which shows that we would like to spend more money on this, but we do not intend to give much more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. This debate, too, after the meeting on the Malieveld and all the other actions, has made it clear that we must make a full commitment to this. My group will do the same, including the formation. It is a pity to note that there is so much argument between Minister Asscher and Prime Minister Rutte, because the teacher must be at the centre, and not these gentlemen. This fight doesn't help anyone. The Labour Party apparently chooses to do so again today, as is evident from the Minister's answers to play a confusing game over the back of hard-working teachers. That's too bad. I'll leave it at that. I have another motion on the function mix. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the function mix in primary education has not fulfilled the original objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent investigation into the reasons for this and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the budgetary treatment of OCW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin the motions, I will give a brief response to two more general comments. Mrs Becker asked if we could get concrete things on the career paths. That would be my bet. We will not just outline what is theoretically possible. We will also, together with the social partners, consider the steps you can take within the possibilities that exist and within the wage building. Mr Bishop asked a question, also in response to the debate that arose about the fact that there is much more room for manoeuvre in schools, including within the renewed supervision. Mr Bishop's own-initiative proposal has also contributed to this. We will continue to bring that to the attention of the House. Wherever that's more possible, we'd like to get to work on it. I'm coming to the Westerveld motion c.s. in piece No. 267. I don't recommend that motion. What it says is an advance on the budget. This isn't happening right now. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. In the Rog/Bruins motion in part No. 270 calls on the cabinet to urge the social partners to comply with the commitments on the job mix. Before I say anything about this, I want to say something else. Mr Kwint said that the Secretary of State actually blames the education authorities. Let me take away the misunderstanding that education authorities are blamed for the lack of teachers. I'd say that's too rude. If you're all trying to solve a problem, it doesn't make much sense to think about guilt questions anyway. Of course, employers also call for more money and more opportunities. That might not be so crazy at this time of forming. However, in view of the opportunities already available, I believe that we, as a government, can also appeal to our partners to keep their commitments. That is why I see Mr Rog's motion and Mr Bruins' motion as support and I accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u150	The Rog/Bruins motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan and Mrs Van Brenk took part in the debate. 272 a motion for a resolution on some sort of inspection of the inspection. I really wouldn't recommend that. The inspection has recently evaluated its entire methodology. Further new inspection supervision has been introduced. I therefore believe that the inspection does not need an inspector in her own way. She's very willing to change herself. So it only leads to a lot of extra paper and a lot of extra work, and that is why I advise against the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 273 by Van Raan, Van Brenk and Beertema, because cutting into the real laws and regulations we already do ourselves with the control printing agenda. For what the schools can do about it, we have the Operation Spare Rules, which will soon be followed up. I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. Mr Beertema. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Beertema on his I also advise against this for a number of reasons. Let me mention a few. The motion suggests that there is a huge growth in non-teaching staff, staff who would not be involved in the primary process. In doing so, Mr Bertema pretends to be expanding huge administrative offices. I really don't have that impression! The overhead in education is low. He further states that if you cut that, you can eliminate the L.A. scale. Let me release him right away from that illusion: that is such a costly measure that it really cannot be done. Moreover, it is not up to the government to abolish job scales, because that is what the social partners are about. So there are several reasons to discourage this motion. Finally, Mr Van Meenen's motion on item No. 276. He actually wants to know more about the reasons why the function mix is not fulfilled. I advise this motion for two reasons. First of all... If the government makes agreements with its partners, the government should be able to assume that the people with whom an agreement has been made will keep that agreement. If it isn't, it's not up to the government to investigate why it can't. Then it's up to those who don't keep their end of the bargain to come up with a good story. If anyone needs an investigation, it is up to the PO Council to investigate it itself. The second reason is that in the coming months I do not want to give the school boards an excuse to sit back, because I see how tough the matter is and how long it takes for those agreements to be met. There is one thing I know for sure: if we were to conduct an investigation in the near future, we would not be able to achieve that 40%, which I believe teachers are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u152	From what the Secretary of State says, it becomes very clear that it is extremely necessary to establish it independently. The school authorities naturally resent the fact that they have not complied with their commitments and that there have been sneaky cuts for years. And there have indeed been! They blame the government that the money originally earmarked for the job mix was insufficient and that the material funding was not in order. All these accusations are supported, for example, by the Court of Auditors' reports. It is becoming increasingly clear that the Secretary of State, supported by Mr Rog's motion, wants to put the ball firmly into education itself. That's exactly what doesn't help. What does help is getting the facts out of the table. Undoubtedly, this will show that some schoolbodies have made a mess of it, but perhaps also that the government has left something behind. So I really don't understand why the Secretary of State doesn't want to know those facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u153	It's not like we're never even investigating anything. There are two studies carried out by the General Court, which state that, although basic education is sober, it is sufficient, and that different school boards make different considerations; the whole of it is sad. All these things have been investigated out-and-after. We have to try to seduce school boards, stick to the deal. They got the money to go to that 40%, and they signed off on it. This applies not only to the beginning; it has also recently been reaffirmed that we simply have a duty with trade unions and employers to comply with these agreements. I do not think it is so constructive to say now: we are going to investigate this for a few months. Then there's one thing I know for sure: everyone's gonna sit around and wait for that investigation. It is ultimately up to the Court to make a ruling on this, but it seems to me quite unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u154	I can only say that we differ. I am very sorry about that, because I would like to know these facts before we start blaming ourselves in education. That's way too fast for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mr. Chairman. For me, a few motions remain, starting with the Westerveld motion at piece number one. 268 on teacher training in the region and additional testing requirements. I don't recommend that motion. We already have support pathways for groups that are now unintentionally excluded. They are already eligible for support. We see that students who are starting out on the pabo are doing better in terms of study success. Dropping those influx requirements, even in experimental form, would really reduce quality. I don't think that's desirable. The Westerveld motion in part No. 269, in which the government is asked to discuss with the training courses how to offer certain courses without additional costs for the student, is partly superfluous and for the rest, I advise against their adoption. There really needs to be a distinction between the requirements prior to the pabo and the demands in the first year of the pabo. There are already free support strategies prior to the pabo: history, geography, nature and technology. The motion for a resolution is therefore superfluous. On the question of whether additional support is needed for the requirements during the training course, especially for calculation purposes, I would like to consult, but I have no idea at the moment whether these requirements lead to additional costs for students. We have to take that into account. All in all, I can't get out of my way with this motion, because it has two sides to it and because it is largely superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u156	I understand very well what the Minister is saying, but on the other hand, there has been a lot of news lately that there is more and more money going into so-called shadow education: extra education in which parents or pupils pay to be updated. That's part of what this motion is about. In fact, with this motion, we say: let us now make the profession of teacher attractive and let us ensure that quality remains good. The point is that people do not have to pay extra if they need an update, but that this is somehow facilitated by the training. My question would therefore be: does the Minister not think that this is a good idea, precisely to ensure that the quality remains high and that people who want to eliminate additional deficits can do that teacher training?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u157	I agree with Mrs Westerveld on many points, but the question is what this adds to existing policies. We don't want shadow education. I also have no signals that this exists at the transition to the pabo. What I do have are free arrangements for students to make up for shortcomings prior to the pabo. In doing so, we are avoiding any incentive for shadow education. So I really don't think the motion is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u158	Removing this shortcoming is mainly about learning to be able to make these tests in the end. It is not about the extra education that some students need, for example because they have been on the MBO and for a long time have not had an education in mathematics. I am specifically trying to facilitate this with this motion, namely that extra education can be given to students who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u159	Then I think Mrs Westerveld should really reformulate her motion. If the operative part is whether I want to map out if there is anything extra needed, for example for calculation purposes, and also what that would cost, I can just imagine that it is not free, then I would be willing to find out. However, the motion must be very clearly reworded into "what extras may be needed" without relaxing the requirements. I really do not want to interfere with the requirements, not even for students who may need additional guidance at the start of the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u160	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u161	The motion-Kwint in part No. 277 on teaching assistants. It is true that the suitability test is now only reimbursed under the subsidy scheme if people prove ultimately appropriate. I am happy to include this point in the examination of the cost coverage of the subsidy scheme. I can promise you this is still possible. On the basis of that examination, we can assess whether it is necessary and desirable to adapt the subsidy scheme. If this is a broad wish from the Chamber, I can take over the motion. If not, I'd leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u162	I look first at Mr Kwint and then at the rest of the House to see whether there is any objection to taking over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u163	I believe that a number of Members do need a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u164	Then the motion will simply be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u165	The Kuzu motion in part No. 271 about more men in teacher training is superfluous, because we already have a lot of research ahead and we also know the reasons for men to be less interested in teaching. Among other things, we can derive this from the Qompas investigation that the Chamber received on Monday at the letter. So I really want to put the energy into how we can change that and how we can scale up and spread the change that we have already made and which leads to positive results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u166	Your judgment on the motion in part No. 271?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u167	Well, then, that's not advisable. The Van Brenk motion in part No. 275 on an age limit of 55 years for training vouchers. I have had a very wide-ranging and recurring discussion with the Chamber, particularly with Mr Rog, on tuition fees. There is an age limit of 55 years. That's because it all costs money that has to be repaid. Then the question is whether someone who gets that credit can reasonably expect him or her to work long enough to pay it back. That is why we said at first that we are sticking to the 55-year-old limit. I made another commitment to Mr Rog recently. If Mrs Van Brenn refers to that, I would consider that motion to be superfluous. If she refers, as I suspect, to the training vouchers that fit Mr Asscher's labour market policy, then I would say that this motion belongs there. I have dealt with the profession of basic teacher in the list of Appeals, but I am not yet responsible for it, nor do I consider myself to be equipped to make far-reaching statements about Calls in general. I do not exclude that Mr Asscher's reasoning with regard to appeals might be the same as my original reasoning with regard to tuition fees. Perhaps that motion could be tabled somewhere else and would be more appropriate for a debate on the labour market. If the motion were to be put to the vote, I would advise against it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u168	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
