ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on palliative care in community care. I welcome the Secretary of State of VWS, the spokesmen who will speak in this debate and those interested in the public gallery. This is a majority debate. Speaking time is four minutes. We have agreed that everyone has three interruptions in the first term, both on each other and on the Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mrs Agema, who had requested this debate on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There we are again, just like every year. Because people can't die where they want to. I am particularly concerned about this subject, because it concerns people who are not responsible for falling into the spokes of the system and are therefore dealing with budget ceilings and care stops. Those systems are being created here. In this house they are defended and fought. This is the vote. We are responsible if people cannot choose where they want to breathe their last breath. That's bad. That feels powerless. Help is refused to deadly people in the final phase of their lives, time and time again, year by year. The NZa speaks of 35 signals. RTL's inventory indicates at least 80 people who are no longer there and who have been told no. We should take care of that. The Hague can steal over systems, we can prove ourselves here, but when you come to the end of your life, you should no longer be the victim of systems and games between directors, insurers and providers. Palliative terminal home care is ensuring maximum comfort in the final phase of one's life. That's good pain control. That's just being there. That's listening and silent. That's fun, too. That's holding someone's hand during sometimes very long nights. That's the last thing you can do for someone. You can only do that once, and you can't do that again. There can be no mistakes, and you can't postpone that either. That makes it so harsh that time and time again and year after year the system is left the system and dying are the victims. As the end of life approaches, people make a choice for the way and where they want to say goodbye to life. That could be at home or in a hospice, or at least in the hospital they just ended up in. This choice can only be made by the sick and his neighbors themselves. For years the palliative terminal care has not been properly arranged. The final step, that of accommodating the extramural palliative terminal care at the district care in the Health Insurance Act, is a wrong decision. That's not getting used to the new system. It went wrong in 2015. It went wrong in 2016. And now, in 2017, for the third year in a row, things are going wrong again. Next year, it's gonna go wrong again. And it goes wrong again, because as a neighborhood nurse, you can't take care of it for a while. It goes wrong again because the system choice was made to outsource this very specific, very intensive care to the health insurance companies. We all know what happens then: budget discounts, sales ceilings, lower daily rates, average rates that you can't provide palliative terminal care for with the best will in the world. And yes, then the providers in turn become more cautious in attracting new people, and so no additional staff is hired and organisations have to sell no. Palliative terminal care is not limited by budget discounts and sales ceilings. When your time comes, it's time. It cannot be easily removed from the communication that the health insurance provider has a duty of care and that only one alternative must be offered. Palliative terminal care can only be given once, and that must be done in one go. Year after year, we ask for a structural solution. The NZa will see seven points for improvement and want to take more action after its first inventory, but it will go on for months. Meanwhile, the problems remain and the NZa sees that we have a placement problem in the system. We ask for the placement of the palliative-terminal care in a quiet place in the system, as far as we are concerned in the Law long-term care for all forms. Only with this will there be an end to squeezing care for people in the final phase of life. Only then can people die wherever they want to. And only then will there be peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. For some time now, we have been getting reports that the system is stalled and that people who are in the final phase of their lives, namely the stage of death, cannot get the care they need at home. I think there are few people here who don't find that harrowing and sad. We have already asked Parliamentary questions on this matter to the Secretary of State, on which the answers were received yesterday. I would like to refer to this, because the Secretary of State says: "I assume that reaching a budget ceiling in 2017 for providers is no reason to avoid palliative terminal care and I assume that health insurers ensure that the budget is never a bottleneck for palliative terminal clients." However, we are here today because the practice shows otherwise. Practice shows that at the moment there are people who would like to die at home, but both healthcare providers and clients and their family members indicate that this is simply not possible at the moment. That is sad, and that is why we need to find a solution as far as we are concerned today. We hear that home care organisations are very careful about attracting extra people, because they are dealing with budget ceilings. Because they say: we have to wait every time at the end of the year to see whether we are actually being compensated for all the care we have done well and properly. Of course, that can never be the intention. We hear from carers, from home carers, that they have to learn because they're being called to see if they can take care of someone but actually don't know how. The teams are already full. They're already working overtime. We could also read that in the messages of RTL News. Home carers are currently running double shifts in the neighbourhood because otherwise they simply can't stand it. The SP doesn't think that's possible anymore. Healthcare providers are simply going crazy with the annual circus with the health insurance companies in which the so-called budget ceilings are to be negotiated. If care is needed, and especially in the final phase of life, the phase of dying, then that care must be available, especially at home. If it is medically possible for someone to die at home, and if that is also the client's wish, then we must be able to do so at all times, and then we must resolve it with each other here today. Before the summer, on 6 July, a majority of the House supported a proposal that was put forward by us and also by GroenLinks, CDA and D66, as a pretty clear mandate to the Secretary of State, who said: take the direction in consultation with the NZa when it comes to such distressing situations. After all, we see that even in this important form of care, health insurance companies keep their hands too much, while the money is there. But it is directly at the expense of people, in this case dying people. We find that unacceptable. That motion of 6 July was here with one vote against, I believe, from the VVD, embraced by the rest of the Chamber. Yet we are standing here today because the situation is as it is. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is: why does he not carry out this motion, why does he not intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating palliative care, care that is not aimed at recovery but above all at quality of life. Today I am replacing my colleague Corinne Ellemeet as the spokesman on this subject. We heard in the news a while ago that people cannot die at home because palliative care is not available enough. That's quite a bit, because the road to the deathbed is often a nasty period, both for the one who is involved and for family and friends. Many people want this intimate and intense period to take place at home, where neighbors and loved ones are close in a familiar environment. This is not always possible because the contract between healthcare providers and community care providers is not working properly. In other words, people cannot die at home because this is not reimbursed by health insurance companies because of the budget ceiling. Or to put it bluntly, care is not available because the money is out. Mr. Chairman. My sister's a neighborhood nurse. She works at Neighborhood Services, and I called her yesterday to ask her about her experiences. Fortunately, she has not yet experienced that patients who need palliative care have been refused, but she recognised the problems. I asked her what she would like to submit to the Secretary of State if she was standing here. The most important thing she felt was that we should trust her and her colleagues. They know what's needed for their patients. Her criticism was also certainly aimed at health insurers who often send far too much money instead of the question of what is really needed to provide good care. The need of people should be the starting point, she felt. That brings me to the question of how we can prevent the emergence of budget ceilings in the future. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how he's gonna make them disappear? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna be back here in six months. From previous debates on this subject, I understood that virtually everyone here thinks that it is unacceptable for healthcare providers to refuse home help because of a lack of money. The Secretary of State has also stated on several occasions that he has a directing role when it comes to purchasing adequate care. He said that budget ceilings should not be an obstacle to the provision of palliative care and yet it is happening. Mr. Chairman. A quality framework should be in place in the summer, describing what good palliative care means for patients, healthcare professionals and health insurers. If I understand correctly, this is still for approval by the health insurance companies and it is not yet ready. And that is a pity, because it is important to put this right quickly so that all parties know where they stand. There is also a lack of clarity about the duty of care providers when it comes to 24-hour care. The Healthcare Institute is going to look into this so that providers can be clear. When can we expect this plan, my question is to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, we also have to deal with staff shortages in community care. This problem does not solve itself within a month, which GroenLinks also understands, but can the Secretary of State indicate what solutions he sees for himself in the short term so that people can be cared for at home? The Ministry has set up a practical team of palliative care to which healthcare professionals could report bottlenecks from 1 March last year. What bottlenecks have been removed by now? The Secretary of State indicates that the practical team will in any case continue in 2017 and that reports will still be received. Does he see any reason to extend the duration of this team? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that after this debate we will have more clarity so that people who need palliative care know what they can expect from the Secretary of State and also from health insurers. The end of life is profound for those who care about it and also for the people around it. Let us do everything possible to make this event as bearable as possible for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year I visited Kuria in Amsterdam. This organization provides care to people in the last phase of life, palliative-terminal care in the hospice or home. It is about caring for particularly vulnerable people and also about caring for those close to them who have to say goodbye to their loved ones. That requires a lot of love, patience and empathy. I am deeply impressed by the work that nurses from Kuria and other organizations are doing. Accompaniing and caring for people in their final stages of life is tailor-made. Dying cannot be understood by laws and rules, but sometimes it seems as if the legislator, we, is trying to do so. People cannot always die wherever they want, but are forced to choose by legal frameworks and funding or lack of funding. The palliative-terminal phase is set at three months. Mr. Chairman. My heart cry is, "Let dying be no financial matter." People have to be able to die wherever they want. Or, as a doctor I spoke to this week put it, let's stop taking care of curative care of people's deaths. Today we are talking specifically about the palliative terminal home care. Research shows that one in five institutions has to do with people not getting the palliative care they need. Does this correspond to the experiences of the palliative care team? I get the impression that not all the signals come in there. I also have a number of specific questions. I'll start with the care purchase. Does the Secretary of State share my view that health insurance companies, in accordance with the statutory duty of care, have to purchase adequate care for the neighbourhood, even when it comes to palliative care? Does the Secretary of State also consider that tariffs should be sufficient to provide this intensive form of care? Last year there was money left for the neighborhood nurse care. A shortage of money cannot therefore be the problem. Yet the NZa puts their finger on this. Sharp shopping is at the expense of the quality of care and the expertise of the staff, we read in the NZa report. The resources between intensive and less intensive forms of care cannot be achieved. This is particularly important in the field of specialized home care. We have a major role to play in the NZa and that is also good, but I do wonder where the Secretary of State's direction is here. Then there's the issue of cooperation. Does the Secretary of State recognise the signs that a lack of regional cooperation can lead to people not dying in the place they want? Now hospitals and hospitals sometimes have to call long before they find a home care organisation that can provide palliative care at home. Can the practical team not take over this role and make palliative home care available quickly? Scots in legislation and funding flows should not lead where someone dies. The NZa also has clear opinions on this matter. Healthcare providers, health care agencies and health insurance companies need to talk to each other. I also ask the question: does the Secretary of State direct? Then the point of quality. In recent years, work has been hard on the quality framework and the Palliative Care Improvement Programme. Now it comes to structural implementation and assurance. What will the Secretary of State contribute to this? Finally, Mr President. We'd rather not talk about death. Nevertheless, when the diagnosis has been made, the discussion should take place not only about treatment, but also about its downside: the limits of treatment and the finiteness of life. Palliative care starts at that time, in the doctor's office. I call on parties in the care to give room for this good conversation. If people are given a timely opportunity to express their wishes, much suffering can be avoided in the terminal phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Already in December 2015, I asked questions together with Mr Van der Staaij about the procurement of palliative care and its bottlenecks. The Secretary of State replied that he would take extra care of this, to remove the bottlenecks. Now we're back here, because RTL's report showed that we're not here yet. That's harrowing and sad. For D66 it is important that people who need palliative care receive care that matches the care question. I thought Mrs Agema put it nicely: you can't do it again. I'm asking the Secretary of State what's going wrong now. In his letter, the Secretary of State writes that it is difficult to find sufficient staff. We also read that in the reaction of V&VN. We see that, for example, healthcare professionals really go beyond their own boundaries to be able to deliver that care from their commitment and responsibility. D66 has been pointing out to the Secretary of State for a long time that there is a real problem with the shortage of district nurses. We have also tabled a motion for an action plan. That motion has been passed. There is now a labour market agenda 2023. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the emergency measures are now? In the letter we read that a lot is being proposed and a lot is happening, but what are the emergency actions? Mr. Chairman. A group I haven't heard back in the contributions of my colleagues is the group of thezzp'ers. These are often involved employees who want to provide care, but often do not fit in with the healthcare insurer's format. Sometimes, apparently, they deliver too many hours, which are then not reimbursed. Of course, that's a terrible shame. Then there are people who want to provide care and then we deal with thezzp'ers in this way. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? Does he also think that we should pay explicit attention to this? Mr. Chairman. Work is under way on increasing the quality of nurses. There's gonna be a quality record. It is very good that we are working on quality, but of course we should not go any further, so we run the risk that people will then drop out. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? We also see that there are budget ceilings. The Secretary of State states in his letter that he thinks it is a positive development that there are health insurers who say: no more budget ceilings for us; we are building growth. Can the Secretary of State indicate which health insurance companies these are? Can he also encourage other health insurance companies to take over this? In addition, there is also a problem with the rate. We see that small specialist healthcare providers often do not come up with the rate. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? Furthermore, the NZa would look at the Monitoring Contracting District Nursing 2017 and the report on Palliative Care in coherence. Are there any conclusions and any actions yet to be reported? Let's talk about thezzp'ers. I am surprised that in the report Palliative care and also in the Monitor Contracting District Nursing 2017 the word "zzp'er" only occurs once, while this group, as V&VN also says, is so important. Again, my question to the Secretary of State: does he recognize this and is it possible to pay explicit attention to the group ofzzp'ers in the next monitor? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Sazias on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a low point of sadness: that we cannot honor the last wish of terminal people because our system is not working. This is yet another debate in which we have to worry about care that is not sufficiently available. And I actually already know what the Secretary of State is about to say. He is going to say that the parties, the health insurance companies and the providers should talk to each other and that if they don't come out, they should go to the NZa and possibly to the Disputes Committee and that mediation can still take place. That's the story we hear every time. We heard that last week in the debate on the treatment stops in the ggz. The ggz settings have now indicated in the AD that the NZa hardly intervenes or intervenes to solve problems. So the procedures are there, but the system doesn't work. We can all also find it very annoying that these things are being fought out in the media, I understand that. But, yes, experience has shown that one does not move until it reaches the media. The problems are caused by purchasing systems and budget ceilings and also by a lack of staff. The State Secretary's replies state that the provider must justify to an insurer why intensive care is needed in order to obtain additional resources. And so the health insurance company sits again in the neighborhood nurse's seat. As if it makes a request for palliative terminal care for fun! In fact, the indication of palliative care should never be called into question. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The NZa would monitor whether sufficient palliative care has been purchased. Palliative care is very intensive, often many hours a day, and that does not always fit in a schedule and in an average task package of a district nurse. It's overloading them. The problems in the labour market are not solved by one-two-three. I am also very curious about the answers to Mrs Bergkamp's questions about thezzp'ers, because that is indeed a big problem, especially since they are often the ones who take on difficult practices and then have to deal with invoices that are not paid. We read that the Dutch Healthcare Authority wants to adjust the funding of the palliative care as of 1 January 2018. Can the Secretary of State clarify that? Mr. Chairman. People are dealing with a problem right now. We can't keep extending everything for ourselves, because while we're sitting here debating it, it sounds hard. People are going to die in a place where they don't really want to. That is why I hope that the Secretary of State, even though he is outgoing and may have only a few weeks left, will tackle this problem with the greatest urgency. I'd like to answer the question of how he's going to do that, how he's going to take control. I do not like to get the same answer, to which I referred earlier, because we know that little riedel by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you very much. We assume you meant that the Secretary of State is only in this post for a few weeks. I call Mrs Keijzer from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. You are told that you are incurable sick and that it will not be long before you die, or your old father or mother becomes more vulnerable and you see that due to all kinds of age disorders the candle gradually goes out. Most people who end up in this situation want to die in a place where he or she feels as comfortable as possible, where you can receive loved ones who can support you in the final phase of your life. The RTL News survey gives a painful insight into how things can sometimes go in practice. Sometimes you can't go home because there is no specialized neighborhood nurse available. I read in reply to written questions from the Chamber that the Secretary of State is aware of this and even that the NZa has contacted the branch organisation of nurses, community care and RTL to find out exactly what is going on. It is also good that this is the way it is going, because people in this situation do not have the strength and the time to go after it to get the good care home. Let that be said. I read in the Monitoring Contracting District Care about purchasing palliative terminal care that there are healthcare providers who are critical because this important form of home care is purchased under the same conditions as ordinary home care. I mean that there is a budget ceiling for this concern, or that it is covered by an average rate, while it is short-term intensive care that needs to be deployed very quickly. With ageing society, demand for this palliative home care will increase. This is also established by the healthcare providers in the survey. There is still no adequate answer to that. In the answers of the Secretary of State he speaks about duty of care, he talks about reporting to the Dutch Healthcare Authority if the care obligations of health insurance companies are not met. But what does he mean by that? Doesn't he agree with the CDA that as long as it's medically sound, people should be able to just come home and die? Does the duty of care see that? Shouldn't health insurance companies bet on that, so it's settled? Does the Secretary of State find it acceptable that palliative home care falls under a budget ceiling? It's not about the biggest group that gets care, but it's about a very important group. Can the Secretary of State talk to health insurance companies about some of the money that's just left over? It's not about a financial problem, because there's enough money to be used specifically for this? Mr President, above all, I am concerned about the future. Will we not have this kind of debate more often because there are simply too few people who want to do this important work in the care sector? I read that in 2016, 6,500 people started an HBO course in nursing and 2,000 people this year. How many of these are actually going to work in community nursing? Are there obstacles that make people opt for the hospital, for example? For example, is the compensation much higher there than in the district care? We are talking about specialist care, which is sometimes extremely medical and touches on what happens in hospitals. Is it right, then, if it is so that it is paid lower, that it is paid lower? I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers. Finally, Mr President. Before the summer, when it was about dementia care, the Secretary of State told the Chamber that he was going to have the NZa very specific about whether enough of this care would be bought in. I had actually hoped to hear from the Secretary of State on this, but I wonder if he can raise this today. This also affects the motion that Mrs Marijnissen spoke about and which was co-signed by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Madam President. The subject we are talking about today shows how tough the practice is sometimes and how difficult it is to get change. Everyone in this Chamber, in Parliament, and on the government side, is convinced that it is very important that people should be able to die in the place where they and their relatives wish, if that is medically sound. So there are no major political differences. Everyone thinks it's really important. It affects you when you hear stories of cases where things go wrong. The necessary work has also been done: administrative agreements have been made and people have been reminded of their responsibilities. At some point, this Secretary of State has even provided some kind of emergency response. I appreciate that. I refer to practical teams which, if there are still problems, will ensure that they are resolved. Then you'd think: if all that is present, it can't really go wrong anymore, can it? This is one of the last debates we have with this Secretary of State and I am interested in how he looks back at that. What's it gonna take to break through that repulsiveness? What's his experience at that point? We also see this in other areas. We would like to learn from it, in the vein of: what does work now? Mr. Chairman. Let me stress that it is also unacceptable and poignant to the SGP Group that there are still the necessary problems, as was pointed out in the broadcast and as we hear from practice. It is precisely when it comes to terminal palliative care that it is incredibly important that it is regulated quickly and smoothly, especially given the circumstances in which people are living. If you have a solution three months later, it's just not a solution. Speed is an explicit part of the quality here. Things are still going wrong, when we are actually saying to each other that this should not be possible. That is why I say: look at the budget ceilings; the inadequate contracts of health insurance companies, which sometimes prevent people from dying in the place where they and their neighbors want to. Mr. Chairman. The answer of the Secretary of State that the NZa can offer a solution to caregivers and relatives of those who do not receive care, I find too much of the Hague reality. You notice that in those circumstances people often don't say: I'm going to call the NZA to find a solution to this. How can a solution be found even closer to the reality of the people themselves? Shouldn't health insurers be much more proactive when they find that the budget ceiling is almost reached and then consult with healthcare providers in order to avoid problems? Couldn't the Healthcare Authority itself be more proactive on this? A good initiative is the SGP's view that there are also insurers who specifically say for palliative terminal care: of course, we do not include a budget ceiling or maximum growth rate in purchasing. The SGP believes that this should apply to all health insurers. I ask the Secretary of State to discuss this with them and to fight for each other as a result that this practice is no longer relevant in this area. Over the last few years, we have tabled motions in which we have put forward proposals for improving the financing of palliative care. We are pleased that the necessary improvements have been made. In the report Palliative care tailored to the NZa is even reported that there are no funding bottlenecks anymore. Nevertheless, in the context of the future of the funding of palliative terminal care, the NZa will hold round tables to see how this funding should be changed. That seems a little contradictory. On the one hand, you say that things are going well, but on the other hand, actions are being started. That is why I believe that more action is still needed. I ask the Secretary of State for his view: how can the financing of palliative care be even better organised in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Arno Rutte, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is the last speaker in the first term of the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij just said it very well: there is no political disagreement in this house about the social desire that everyone should be able to die in the place where he would like to die. This is evident every time we debate this issue. That it is so incredibly valuable to be able to die wherever you want, for example in a hospice, I experienced this summer when I myself was present at Hospice Kajan in Hilversum. Then you see how intensive that last phase of life is and is experienced by, for example, 130 volunteers and 23 professionals who offer an environment in which people can experience their last phase of life with maximum guidance. The same applies, of course, if someone wants to die at home. They must then also be able to count on comparable good care there. Too often I get signals, as several colleagues have also said, that it is particularly difficult at a certain stage of the year to get that care organised and that providers say: I can no longer deliver. I have also indicated in previous debates that this is simply unacceptable. It can't be that, if one has a duty to provide care and is funded for it, at some point one says: sorry, it's gone now. You can't. People need that care. A lot has happened since those last debates. When I look at the last letter from the Secretary of State, action has indeed been taken in many areas. On the one hand, very important, this labour market agenda, because palliative home care is no simple concern. She demands a high degree of specialisation and she demands that we have enough people who can and will do so. That is what the agenda is for now. I also hope that there is sufficient speed in this, so that we can really respond to the growing demand for this kind of care. Does the Secretary of State have the idea that the agenda that is now on the table will actually lead to sufficient influx into this specialised care? The second point, which remains a matter of concern, is the financing of this palliative home care. When we talk about that system, the House of Representatives certainly has a role to play. We have said together that we think it is very important that there is one rate in home care, that average rate. We wanted to get rid of stopwatch care, we wanted to get rid of ticking lists. That's what we've all decided here. But if you only want one rate, then the heaviest form of care may be the least attractive to deliver as a provider of home care. Shouldn't we do some reflection? This concerns palliative home care, but it is also about intensive wound care, for example. These are very heavy, intensive forms of home care. Should we not perhaps go to a separate rate after all, or can we do it all within the current frameworks, as the NZa points out? Then I agree with Mr Van der Staaij's questions: if it is all possible, why is it still not quite clear? And does this uncertainty not lead to reluctance to offer this care and thus not so much to stop patients, who are there and who are also unacceptable, but above all simply a lack of supply? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Finally. Getting home care in the last stage of life in time, well and quickly organized, turns out to be too often complicated. It is very good that the Ministry has a practical team for this and that this practical team will continue to exist, just to smooth out the practical folds. But in the conversations I have with nurses I rarely hear that people know about the existence of that practical team. I am concerned about that, because if that team is there and can act quickly too, I assume that it is, then it is extremely important for everyone to know that this team is there, but we are also learning from the experiences of that practice team. I assume that these are not just ad hoc decisions, but that the experiences that exist lead to new policies and to feedback to the provider and to the insurer, in the vein of: hey, so it can, so you should! Then people can count on that, if they need care, that care can also be provided; quickly, without thresholds and without complicated system intervention by the Dutch Healthcare Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you for your contribution. There is a question for you from Mrs Marijnissen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	When we talked about this before the summer, the VVD was the only one in this Chamber who did not support the proposal to instruct the government to take control, especially in consultation with the NZa, when it comes to the really pressing problems. Nevertheless, I hear Mr Rutte now say: it is unacceptable if there are patient stops; if there are people who need care, especially in the final phase of their lives............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Have you changed your mind, and do you now think that direction should be given and that we cannot therefore look at each other if people are otherwise put at the cost of it? If things were going well, we wouldn't be talking about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	Patients stoppages in this kind of care, which you can't just turn on someone else for, that just can't be done; that's unacceptable. It's not the first time I've said that here. I've said it many times. It can't be. There is no favour, there is a duty of care; there must be provision. So there's an assignment for the insurer to deliver. There must be providers who can supply it, but if we assume that there are, then delivery must be made. However, I am a little reluctant when you say that we must take the lead in this matter politically. I do not believe very much that we can solve the problems with political direction. Those problems need to be solved in practice, where people are providing care every day, where insurers have to buy and there is a supervisor to ensure that action is taken, that must be done. Maybe that's part of a word game. I don't think we disagree very much, but it has to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	You're saying patients stoppages, they can't, that's unacceptable. You've said that before. Yet yesterday there was another message that insurers simply have to deliver, but the situation is similar to, for example, neighbourhood care. It has already been mentioned a number of times where they now say: we are simply going to announce patient stops. They literally ring the bell and say: we are called by people in need, but there is no place and we also don't know how to organize places. So you say that this does not happen, because insurers simply do not deliver, while providers say that we can. Then what's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	We have to keep situations apart. Today we are having a debate on palliative home care, a highly specialised, heavy form of care. The duty of care works as follows: If that care is to be provided and you knock on the door of one provider and he says: yes, but I walk out of my contracts, I made other arrangements, then the insurer must ensure that that care is delivered in any case. That could be from another provider, but if there isn't, you have to fix it. With regular home care it is much easier to organize and much better to do. There you can easily find another provider with which to organize it jumps into that hole. In these highly specialised forms of care, the duty of care often leads you to say: it may be that a contract has been concluded, but there is no alternative either, so that care must be provided. At a time like this, when I say that it is unacceptable to have a patient stop and therefore there is no other party to provide that care. That is unacceptable; there is a duty of care. I think it is genuine, and I would like to say this here, that we do not have to solve the problem politically every time a provider says: 'I have a patient stop'. Otherwise, we're sitting here playing some kind of negotiating game, hoping that particular provider gets a better contract. I think that's highly unwise. We shouldn't do that. Highly specialized care must be provided, there is a duty of care. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	Let me make one thing clear: the SP is no longer in favour of buying, negotiating, budget ceilings and all that sort of thing. We would much rather see a completely different, publicly funded system, especially in the area of nursing, but that is not what we are talking about here today. You are right to say that today we are talking about the people who are in the stage of dying. Then you actually say: need breaks the law; then there must be a solution, to the left or to the right. But what if healthcare organisations say: we want to cooperate in this, we want to settle that solution and we want to take care of those people, but if we don't get that back from the insurer by the end of the year, then of course there is a problem? You say that we do not think that we should take too much political action, but I do not think that politics should look away, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	I'm not standing here for nothing today. I think that this problem, and in particular the fact that it continues to exist, is really something to talk about. The question is whether politics should take over completely. Does that make it much better? Or are you saying, no, the parties that have to shape this now will really have to do better? I am also seeing a development. I see in particular the Dutch Healthcare Authority much earlier boarding and responding. You might wonder if it's fast enough. You may also wonder whether the NZa should sometimes be a little stricter with these parties. I think we can agree on that soon. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has asked for a short suspension in order to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	I ask the spokesmen to take their seats again. That is kindly in the direction of the Secretary of State, who is ready to start his reply. I call the Secretary of State for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that many spokesmen have already said in a striking way that the end of people's lives must be surrounded with respect, loving attention and good care, and that the needs of people affected by this must be and must be guiding. I very much agree with Mrs Agema when she says that it is incredibly important that someone can choose to die at home if he or she wants to. This must be made possible in an organizational way and in terms of funding: these are all secondary issues. The fact that a survey of RTL News shows that a number of institutions have not been able to do so for all clients in the past year is therefore regrettable; that is not good. Fortunately, we can also find together that the palliative care and the palliative-terminal care in the Netherlands is of a very high level, both in the hospital as well as in hospitals and in the home situation. But that doesn't change the fact that we shouldn't sit still. Everyone has to be able to make the choice, even for dying at home. There are signs that sometimes it did not initially manage to quickly arrange palliative terminal home care. Those signals are also coming in to the practice team. There aren't many of them, by the way. A report like that came in 17 times. Some of them relate to the period of holidays and summer; I will come back to that later. During the holidays and around the holidays you saw that the cause of these reports was almost always a shortage of staff or a temporary shortage of staff in the region. Mr. Chairman. Let me break down some of the problems. First of all, this is the purchase and care obligation of the insurers, which some of you have also called attention to. Let us, as has been said a few times in previous debates, be crystal clear with each other: it is unacceptable that people should not be able to die at home because of insufficient budget commitments. It's not supposed to be. The agreements should not lead to this either. Healthcare insurers and healthcare providers are responsible for this and they have to make agreements about it. It can't be that you say to each other in November: the budget may be up, so it can't be anymore. If, for example, we look at and analyse such a case from the field team, I notice that in some cases there is and had been insufficient communication and that the health insurance provider said: I did not even know that there was a threatening budget ceiling that caused these kinds of problems. When people talked to each other, it was always solved. It is therefore primarily up to the provider not to let it happen by talking on time. Then you just have to settle it first and then discuss the money with each other later, especially when it comes to palliative-terminal care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	There is a question from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	The Secretary of State here condemns budget ceilings, just like all times, always. It has become a vicious circle in every debate over the past few years and it will probably also become a vicious circle for his successor if we do not take a short break here in this house with the budget ceilings. So can the Secretary of State indicate how he would like to eliminate the budget ceilings?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u30	I don't know if we should be trying to get rid of the budget ceilings. I believe that it is still important in the future to ensure that there is controlled cost development, including in the care sector. This is without prejudice to a duty of care. The budget ceilings apply to each provider. There's a meeting going on. A health insurance company makes arrangements with different providers and says: I buy so much care from one person and buy so much from the other. Then there is a budget ceiling for the relevant provider. However, the health insurance provider should at least ensure that sufficient care is provided in the total of these arrangements. That could lead one provider to run up against a budget ceiling. This does not have to be a problem if the same quality of care can be bought elsewhere. So let us be careful that a budget ceiling for a provider does not lead to a discussion that cannot actually be conducted. As the Chamber knows, we have often talked about this, but there is another way to do so. That's what we're experimenting with. Those are, for example, the following personal appointments. In addition, you say: we don't make deals with a provider about the budget for the coming year, but you get paid as people come to you to ask for care. It's possible. We're doing those experiments. They have advantages and disadvantages. The disadvantage for institutions is that they do not know in advance what the budget will be for them in the coming years. With these experiments we look at the pros and cons and whether we could make the step to personal funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u31	The Secretary of State explained in his first block of reply how the system works exactly when transferring the palliative-terminal care to the Health Insurance Act. But that remains a vicious circle inherent to the system. I'm disappointed about this. We received a report from the NZa a few months ago. Although the NZa does say she will do more and investigate more to find a solution, she also continues to struggle in the system as it is, including the placement of the palliative-terminal care in the Health Insurance Act. My question to the Secretary of State: is this really the right place in the system? Shouldn't a much quieter place be found, for example in the Wlz?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u32	I don't know if you can describe that as a quiet place. I don't know if that's the right terminology, but there was a reason to say at the time: how should we do this? One of the reasons was: if there is already community nursing, people get care at home by a district nurse and they would then want to die in the home situation, then they get another problem, namely that they have to go to another domain to get that palliative terminal care. So that's why we said: neighborhood care and palliative terminal care in the home situation at one, so that at least during the final phase of their lives people don't suffer from the fact that it would have to go to another domain. It would also have disadvantages to change the system. At least that wouldn't solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u33	But the NZa didn't investigate this either. I find it very regrettable that we are constantly holding the same debate here. Actually, we all agree that we don't want this. The Secretary of State has just explained very well how restless this health insurance law system is, with the health insurers, the providers and budget ceilings, and so on: average rates, rates that are adjusted, reduced, increased. A very restless system for such vulnerable and short-lived as palliative terminal home care. So my question to the Secretary of State is: would it not be good if the NZa were to investigate where the palliative terminal home care could best be placed in the system, rather than sticking to the system, where it is now placed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u34	We have, of course, had the debate in the Chamber where it could best be placed. Again, for reasons of the link with home care, we have said: let people in the final phase of their lives not suffer from a system transition. On the other hand, it is also true that if it takes place in the Long-Term Care Act, there would be no budget ceilings or no negotiations between healthcare offices and healthcare institutions on the budget for the coming year. That problem, in so far as it is a problem, I will come to that. What is needed is to say: of course there will be budget ceilings per provider, but that should not lead to the individual wanting to die at home being affected. If a health care institution provides for a demand for palliative care that it would not be able to answer because of the budget ceiling, it should have a timely conversation with the health care provider that that should never be the reason for not being able to provide palliative terminal care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mrs Agema, further on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'll bet my second interruption right away. If the Secretary of State wants to take care of this, there is a real profit. I think it is a really good step forward that, in the case of palliative terminal care, a budget ceiling should not be allowed. I think that is what the whole Chamber is waiting for and wishes for. However, I am very sorry that the Secretary of State does not wish to carry out further research, for example at the NZa, which is only concerned with research into what can be improved with regard to this inclusion in the Health Insurance Act. Because I think there's a second big hit there, if we don't just stare at the fact that this palliative terminal home care has to stay in the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u37	No, we shouldn't stare blind. But I would like to focus attention to the palliative terminal care very much on how we handle it well for the people. They should not suffer from domain discussions and should not suffer from the fact that, if there is a budget ceiling with their provider, no palliative terminal care can be provided. That should never be the reason. I would like to avoid a system discussion. Indeed, I would prefer to say: how do we solve it as best we can for people who have palliative terminal care, no matter what domain it takes place in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mrs. Bergkamp. Mrs Agema wants to finish the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u39	I'm sorry, but what does the Secretary of State propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u40	I'll come back to that in the course of my story. But what you see now, of course, is that you can work with budget ceilings because you have a contract with a healthcare provider. However, if healthcare providers indicate to the insurer in good time what to do with an application for palliative terminal care, which, by the way, happens very often in terms of indication by the district nurse himself................................................................................................................................ So I think that in practice with good agreements between healthcare providers and insurers, good agreements between healthcare providers and proactive supervision by the healthcare authority, there is a lot to solve, which is also reflected in the signals we get from the practice team. This almost always leads to a solution being found.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u42	I do not understand exactly what the Secretary of State is proposing to do. Is he planning to set something out in the direction of the NZa to have further investigation done? What is he proposing in concrete terms? I understand that he cannot propose everything, since he has a successor next week, but what does he intend to do now to the Chamber about what he wants to do, on the one hand, with regard to these budget ceilings and on the other hand with regard to further research into a structural solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u43	Then I'll jump a little bit into my story. There are two things that I think should at least be looked at. The first is that when you see in some places in the country that the cooperation agreements between insurers and providers and providers provide very good examples of how to act quickly and to adopt an accelerated approach, you can discuss this with all health insurers. Mr Van der Staaij also asked about this. The second concerns the discussion on the rates mentioned in various contributions from you. We have an intuitive preference to say: let us not cause too much administrative burden and let us go to inclusive rates. The disadvantage of integral tariffs is that they are a bit average and that it can work out differently per institution. The question is therefore also a question for the Healthcare Authority if they are considering whether to make full tariffs and make specific agreements on palliative care or whether to arrange something separately for a few parts, as Mr Rutte called the wound care and palliative care. I would ask the Healthcare Authority to look at the advantages and disadvantages of this. There are really advantages and disadvantages to that, because before you know it, you will have all kinds of products and products that you have to make separate tariff agreements about, with all the burdens that this entails. I have also often heard Mrs Agema argue for an integral rate, for one rate for nurse care, but we have to see whether this type of component can be adequately financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mrs Bergman, Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u45	As long as you don't say Veerkamp. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u46	That's not your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u47	Let me explain before this is about to lead a life of its own. It happens quite often that I am called Mrs Veerkamp. That was a very nice show on TV, but this is a bit different. I have a few more questions. Mrs Agema has tried to implement a number of things. I want to support her in that. I want to start with the last one, those rates. We see in practice that it may seem that these rates are not conclusive when it comes to this intensive specialist care. The Secretary of State says he wants to weigh the pros and cons very well. Then let's be specific. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the NZa to carry out such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mrs. Agema, you will be served at your beck and call. I asked you this as a result of your interruption. I also have a question about the budget ceilings. I think we all agree that, when it comes to this particular concern, there should be no budget ceiling. The Secretary of State also writes in his letter that it is a good thing that there are health insurers who do not handle this. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State which health insurers they are. Following an interruption by Mrs Agema, the Secretary of State indicated that he agrees and that people should simply be given care. However, that is something else than getting care from the healthcare provider they have chosen themselves. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether, especially in this sensitive situation, people are given the freedom to choose the healthcare provider themselves. We believe that the budget ceiling should not be an obstacle to this in such situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u50	I understand that question very well. However, it is a bit contrary to the fact that you want to give some providers in advance certainty as to the budget for a given year, if you would say in the middle of the year: still not, because we are giving another one more. That gives uncertainty to the other healthcare provider. My feeling is that it doesn't happen very often, but if insurers want to make separate agreements about it and then we have a growth rate or we do not use the budget ceiling for a specific part, that seems to me to be a good first agreement. There are, by the way, advantages and disadvantages. I don't know exactly which insurance companies they're dealing with. These are signals we received from the Healthcare Authority. I am very willing to see whether these agreements actually work better, so that we can apply them generically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mrs Bergkamp, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u52	I welcome these assurances from the Secretary of State. I also think it is nice that people have transparency and that, if they have to make a choice for a health insurance company, they also know how health insurance companies deal with this type of care. That gives a certain picture of the health insurance company where they want to close their policy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to promote, at least in terms of this concern, greater transparency so that people know which services are being provided?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u53	I very much agree with that, but let us also look at the practice in which such a question is often not clear in advance. Some people have neighborhood nursing care and, as a rule, if they enter the terminal phase, they will want to keep that familiar face. But sometimes such a question arises in the hospital, where the phase of terminal care enters. You haven't thought about that at all in advance and you have to look urgently for the answer to the question which nurse you can contact. So sometimes there's a very clear wish: make sure I get the same person, the same face. Sometimes acute care needs to be taken into account with all the issues involved. But it is good to be transparent as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u54	First a word of thanks to the Secretary of State for having research done on the rates and the possible abrasion between the full rate and another rate. That commitment has already been made, but I abuse this interruption to ask if the Secretary of State can indicate the time limit within which we can expect that investigation. My question is about something else. Mrs Agema pointed out that these budget ceilings could be a problem. Maybe that's why someone would be deprived of care. No one wants that. The Secretary of State clearly states that you must then be able to move to another provider. That's all true, but didn't we agree that health insurance companies will publish their procurement policy in April and that the NZa will keep that policy under review and control? At that time, the NZa checks whether it is adequate to buy in like this? If that is the case, how is it that we are still too often faced with the fact that this particular concern is not well bought in or that it cannot be properly organised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u55	That's because there's a second reason. I'll get to that in a minute. It is true that the Healthcare Authority should take a proactive approach to the procurement policy and procurement documents of the health insurance companies. These documents are often drawn up and, on this basis, one can already reach an opinion on whether it is in principle for each other or not. Then, because of budget issues, the kind of problems we were talking about can still occur and we say that they should not occur. You'd have to "subcontract" or you'd have to take care of it in a different way. Another problem I come up with in a moment is the labour market. There's a shortage of neighborhood nurses. This certainly applies to nurses with specialization palliative terminal care. This is a problem which we also foresee for the long term and which we need to take short-term measures to improve the long-term provision of services. So these are two different causes. You are right that the Healthcare Authority should take an active attitude towards the care purchase. It must consider whether it is in principle good in terms of framework conditions, but this does not mean that there may still be problems in practice with a provider or in terms of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u56	We know that the NZa has the task of overseeing procurement policy. I hear from the Secretary of State that the NZa is doing the same proactively. That's good, but is that supervision adequate? Is that hard enough? Does this particular point which keeps coming back, namely that of the palliative care that is not always well purchased or organized, have sufficient attention at the NZa?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u57	I do, however, like to say that your question also leads me to ask for more specific attention at the NZa. And I would like to point out that in the administrative consultation on this particular issue, namely the adequate procurement of palliative terminal care, we have agreed with healthcare providers and health insurers that we will pay particular attention to this in the coming period in order to ensure that there are no bottlenecks. That Healthcare Authority needs to see to that. I would like to stress once again that I believe that this should also be done proactively. But this happens at the end of the ride. Of course, things have to be better. You can watch it and pass out penalties if it didn't go well, but I want it to go well in practice. That is why I would like to emphasise the importance of these administrative arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u58	That's right. Afterwards surveillance of palliative care, people died. Then there's nothing you can do to improve that care. I want to know if I can hear what the Secretary of State is saying. Before the summer we talked about this. At that time, the Secretary of State promised that it was not only the question of whether care was in principle well purchased. That was what he said at the beginning of his reaction to Mr Rutte. But the Secretary of State also said that there will be a check on whether sufficient palliative terminal care has been purchased in practice. Am I to understand that the arrangements are there? And will the Chamber be informed there at the end of my term of office about the findings of the Healthcare Authority, precisely on the part of whether this care is properly regulated in practice? Otherwise, we have only established on paper that this is well arranged and that is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u59	I very much agree with that. It must of course be well arranged on paper, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating in practice. This proactive attitude is not about whether the papers are good, but whether they are good in practice. If bottlenecks are foreseen or created in practice, the Healthcare Authority will benefit from reporting them to the Healthcare Authority so that we can act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u60	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. We've already talked about the purchase and everything that has to do with it. I'll speed that up. If there are signals, they can be reported to the Healthcare Authority, which does not prevent the Healthcare Authority itself from taking proactive action and taking action when signals are reported. There is also a big challenge. Mrs Bergkamp and, in my opinion, Mrs Keijzer also mentioned the problem of the labour market. It's just there. Not only in this area, but we face major challenges to train enough people with the right skills and to ensure sufficient capacity. In my letter and also in the Labour Market Agenda, you have seen that we are working on several fronts: attracting more people into care, training more, attracting people who have already worked in care and much more attention to maintaining, capturing and binding the current people, the current professionals in care. I think that the latter is really an underrated point. They must be able to receive sufficient training and receive sufficient attention and appreciation for the profession. This means more permanent contracts, continuous development, commitment to health, active absenteeism, where really huge beatings can be made, and finally innovation and technology. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp and share her sense of urgency. That is precisely why we have created the Labour Market Agenda. In my letter I tried to give some examples. Here and there you can see that effective agreements are being made between health care institutions and training institutes, that the number of placements is increasing, that people in care training can come and train at the institution itself. These are all examples that I think show that everyone is busy with the question of how we can speed up. The most acute way to solve this problem is to ensure that you get people as soon as possible, people who have worked in healthcare or they can flow in. I note that the administrative and national agreements that have been made are beginning to become tangible in practice and that concrete action is being taken. Of course, this will help us to provide sufficient resources: 347 million for the training and further training of new people. Mr. Chairman. But there is indeed an image issue there. When I talk to nurses in training, they say: we still have to fight against the image. People like it better to work in a hospital. That's a bit shifting, especially since people who work in a neighbourhood and tell about their work, even earlier in training, can change that balance. I often meet people in community care who say: it was not my first preference, but now that I work there, I want to tell everyone how beautiful the work is. We support the district nurses, the healthcare providers and the training institutes to further disseminate this picture. There really is an important role for employers. How do you make the work attractive? How do you ensure a good human mix? Look also at the collective agreements; Mrs Keijzer asked for them. It is, of course, a matter between employers and employees. In essence, there are not very large differences in the salary, but in the feeling and image. I think it is incredibly important for employers and employees to see how the attractiveness of the profession can be increased, for example in the collective agreements that are concluded. That's what they're doing with us, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u62	We believe that the budget ceilings can also be a problem for healthcare providers or that they can in any case be perceived as a problem by healthcare providers in order to take on the staff they really need. So even if there are staff, we have a huge reluctance on the part of healthcare providers to do it, precisely because they are afraid that they may not be able to pay the bill by the end of the year. Can the Secretary of State also comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u63	I can well imagine that it can be a problem if an institution with a budget ceiling finds that demand is rising and that it is not sure that it is being financed. Of course, we come from a time when every dime had to be turned around and healthcare providers might have been a little reluctant to recruit new staff. If we succeed in improving the long-term perspective with our measures that have strengthened the sustainability of care, then employers will also have a bit more incentive to look at the longer term. They will therefore be making longer contracts and more agreements. I don't think you could say that the budget ceiling is preventing it from making long-term investments. Studies show that turnover decreased faster than personnel costs. So the staff was kept a bit. At the same time, I believe that it is indeed necessary to look at this in a different way. Budget ceilings should not be the reason not to attract staff. We're gonna have to deal with a growth. That is also the subject of an agreement. There was even a little money left last year. That doesn't have to be the problem. I expect employers to see to the future that it is very important to invest in people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u64	The Secretary of State mentioned the fact that there was even a little money left. He said this wouldn't have to be the problem. You would indeed think that, but if the health insurance companies keep their hands on the cut, that is of course the reason why healthcare providers are calling on us too, then of course there is a real problem, especially for a care organisation that is growing. If such an organization has more work to do, it also needs more people to do so. I can therefore imagine that it would be nice for healthcare providers to have the guarantee that they will actually be reimbursed for the care provided, and that this will actually put a brake on, for example, fixed contracts, which are so much needed to make it attractive for employees to opt for community care in this case. So I think that the Secretary of State is moving away too easily from the problem of the healthcare ceilings experienced by the healthcare providers. In practice, we just see that this creates a brake. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the budget ceilings have a negative effect in so many different places? Of course, we all want the people who are needed to get to work, on good terms and on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u65	That may indeed have its effect, but let's also look at the other side. The budget ceilings apply per healthcare provider. If we were to say "you know what, if a healthcare provider has more work, then we're going to break the budget ceiling there automatically, and that means we're going to do that," you have to tell another healthcare provider that it gets less because it has less work. This also affects the staff. If we're going to facilitate that, if we're going to abolish the budget ceiling on one provider, it's like saying to that provider "you can still grow," but at the same time we have to say to another provider: you have to shrink. I don't know if the human effects of this are different on balance. So that can have an effect, but let's beware of too easy reasoning, because sometimes the advantage for one is the disadvantage for the other. You really only solve that if you go to that next-person funding, for example, with the advantages and disadvantages of that. Mr. Chairman. So we are dealing with care procurement on the one hand and labour market problems on the other. We need to be aware that long-term action on labour market issues will improve, but that measures will of course also be needed in the short term. I think it is incredibly important that parties find each other by making agreements. For example, we are talking about simple agreements, no matter how banal that sounds, about questions like "what are we going to do in the summer period?" It becomes summer every year, there are holidays every year, so that means you have to make good agreements each year about how to deal with changes in the care question. This can sometimes be done at regional level. I will indeed ensure that the practical team remains in force for as long as this is necessary, as I say in response to questions that have been raised at that point. This will continue in the coming year. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of specific questions that have been asked. I've been talking to Mrs. Agema about it for a while. She called it "a quiet place in the system."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u66	I'll interrupt before you continue with the other questions. Mrs Dik-Faber has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u67	It was really quick. The Secretary of State addressed the issue of regional cooperation, particularly for the summer period. Now I've looked at the NZa's report. I have seen that there is still a great deal missing in terms of regional cooperation, both in the summer period and beyond. Parties know hard to find each other. The NZa sees the problem. She says that it would be good if healthcare agencies, health insurance companies and healthcare providers came into contact with each other, and that is all. Who is going to make sure that this consultation actually takes place? Let us prevent all three parties from sitting back and not entering into that conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u68	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The Healthcare Authority will organise this together with the practical team. It is already planned that sometime in the autumn or early next year round tables will be organised with health insurers and healthcare providers, to exchange good examples, to see where the bottlenecks are and at least to disseminate the knowledge and skills that are being gained where things are going well throughout the country. That's what you argued for. This will require an active role from the Healthcare Authority, but also from the practical team, and they will be given an active role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u69	So I understand that both the Healthcare Authority and the practical team are the initiators. There will be real talks to get regional parties together to make sure that good agreements are made and people stop falling apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mrs Dik-Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u72	Clear. The practice team was set up by VWS. I think it is extremely important for the government, and on behalf of the government, to take on a role of direction and not just leave it at the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u73	I believe I agree with you, but we are not going to assume the responsibility of the Healthcare Authority. It has a role, a formal role, and it will have to play it proactively. In addition, the knowledge and skills of the practical team will also be used to ensure that it works better. So it's en-and. Mr President, I will deal with a number of specific questions. I think we have already discussed Mrs Agema's questions about the quiet place in the system. My main motivation is to make sure that it goes well in practice, regardless of what domain it is in. I think we have also exchanged the necessary information. Mrs Marijnissen asked about the motion of 6 July and the direction on it: did the necessary happen? I would point out that we have resolved a number of issues relating to the lack of clarity in the indication. Asked whether there is sufficient care and if you can get extra care in the home situation: we also solved that. I pointed out to you the proactive role of the Healthcare Authority and the practical team. You may expect me and my successor to do so. I would also like to say that the discussions with health insurers show me that there is no misunderstanding among health insurers that this simply needs to be properly arranged. Nobody wants this. If there are problems in practice, because of communication or because of fuss about the budget ceiling or otherwise, you can also solve them in practice. We must therefore ensure that this is done in practice as far as possible. I assume that my successor or successor with the same and perhaps more energy will ensure that this does not disappear from sight. Mrs Westerveld asked how the practical team now works in concrete terms. Actually, you can see that we are looking very closely at the reports from the practice. The practical team has a broad composition and meets monthly. It looks at what signals there are, in the media and in the field. In between, the practical team and VWS are busy daily picking up notifications. When there are financing issues, contact is made with the insurer concerned or with the healthcare office to see if a quick solution is possible, but sometimes you can also see that there are misunderstandings about how it is actually arranged. Then an opinion and a solution can be reached very quickly. The team will continue for as long as it takes. We have already said the necessary things about purchasing and the labour market. There was a separate question from Mrs Westerveld about the duty of care and the 24-hour care. At least a few comments were made. The Zorginstituut is going to make an explanation for the 24-hour care. Then you should think in particular of the question of which care question is involved in 24-hour care and what level of expertise is required for it. The Healthcare Institute is currently exploring that with the field together. This explanation is expected to be given in the first quarter of 2018. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the quality framework of palliative care. Next week, on 3 October, the quality framework for palliative care will be launched by the parties at a meeting. From what I've heard, that has broad support. This means that after that we have to look at what this means for the implementation and when it is offered to the Healthcare Institute. That's what parties are still talking about. The authors want to talk about this implementation first with the field so that it does not just come on paper, but is already being looked at what this means in practice. We are thinking along these lines, but I am glad that this substantive step can be taken at least next week. I think we have already talked about regional cooperation. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. The suggestions of both the practical team and the Healthcare Authority will be used to ensure that these good examples will become known throughout the country. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked how many reports the practical team received. Some 200 notifications were received during that period, of which about 50 were actually only information requests. The 180 reports that were more than an information request were picked up by the practice team. Sometimes it's been answered over the phone, sometimes it's gone to people, sometimes it's gone through social media. I repeat, the team will continue as long as necessary. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked for a little confirmation of the point that the bulkheads in the financing should not hinder the delivery of palliative terminal care. I agree that these should not be leading. That is why we have arranged that the palliative terminal care can be arranged from the domain where someone is at the time that demand arises, so that it is not necessary to switch to other legislation in a final phase. That's gonna take a lot of work. It means, of course, that we are looking at the administrative burden, but we will take that point further. Mrs Bergkamp asked if more attention should be paid tozzp'ers. Indeed,zzp'ers make an incredibly valuable and important contribution, especially as regards their commitment to the palliative terminal care. The tricky thing is that quality standards have been set. When it comes to institution care, you can, as it were, check it automatically. When it comes tozzp'ers, you have to ask for that again, so that's harder. I do agree, however, that there is a need to ensure that people who meet the quality requirements are able to buy in in such a way that they are able to do so in many cases. It is of course up to the insurer to determine who, but they play an incredibly important role. In fact, I think it is a good idea to give specific attention to this, also in the monitor of the NZa. Mrs Bergkamp suggested that. The NZa carried out the monitor in 2017 and will repeat it in 2018. I agree that we should pay particular attention, or at least sufficient attention, to the palliative care carried out byzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u74	I welcome this commitment that thezzp'ers are explicitly included in the monitor. One more question about something the Secretary of State indicated at the beginning: that it should not be the case thatzzp'ers who provide their services and meet the quality requirements could not do so because they do not fit within the range of health insurers. That's something we often hear back. Is the Secretary of State prepared to just discuss this issue with the health insurance companies or through the NZa, to see if the pattern used by the health insurance companies is suitable for thezzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yes, of course I'm prepared to do that. What I didn't know a bit about was that you said that those are the demands of the health insurance companies. In fact, it is the quality requirements that we have set with each other. We ask the health insurance companies to ensure that this is done. So that also means a question to us. We have these quality requirements, especially those for palliative terminal care, of course not for nothing. Insurers want to ensure that the quality requirements we set are adequately secured in the case ofzzp'ers. We can look at whether these are unreasonable requirements forzzp'ers, or whether they are unnecessary quality requirements for them. We are very willing to do so, but they are our rules. It's not like insurers come up with just a few rules to come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u76	The Secretary of State is quite right about that. My question is as follows. When it comes to the quality of care, the rules must be the same; we agree on that. But sometimes they are over-asked, and sometimes they have more to do with the responsibility and everything around it than with the quality that comes with it. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to discuss this and see if that's true. Does he therefore want to examine whether the new quality framework of palliative care that is being created meets these requirements, so thatzzp'ers can also meet these requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u77	I agree with that wording. I think I have also answered Mrs Sazias' question about thezzp'ers. Soon I will come back to that specifically. Mrs Sazias specifically asked whether an indication of a nurse should never be discussed with a health insurance provider. In general, I agree: an indication of a nurse should not be discussed with a health insurance provider. However, the health insurance provider may, of course, see how this indication is structured and whether it complies with the rules on material control. My experience is that when this is discussed, there is always contact between the health insurance provider and the nurse or the provider and that there is almost always a solution. It is not for nothing that we have arranged for the nurse to do the indication and that the health insurance provider should not sit on the neighborhood nurse's seat. Insurers and district nurses are, by the way, nicely talking to each other about how they look at the profession, how it develops and what the demands they have to make with each other are. As a result, insurers also have more guidance that if they have to buy good nursing care, that is care that the district nurses and the branches also say: this is the quality of the district nurse care that you are supposed to buy in. There are still some developments in this area because the course is moving strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u78	But I understand from the letter that when that budget ceiling is reached, the insurer will decide whether the application is justified or not. So, in general, that will not happen, but it will be when the ceiling is reached and there must be additional resources. I read that in your letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u79	You're speaking through the chairman, so it's about the letter from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u80	If you conclude a contract with each other that says "we're going to deliver that care and this is the budget ceiling," it's natural that when more is delivered, you'll have a discussion about what to do. Sometimes a provision is included in a contract itself, for whose account and risk comes that care. Sometimes it says in such a contract that one consults with one another. Then you'll talk to each other about how you're gonna do it. And then there will also be discussion about the question: how can you deliver more while another delivers less, perhaps we will divide it in a different way? But when it comes to the content of the indication, the insurer will never be able to sit on the seat of the person providing the indication. That's a professional test. By the way, also a little in relation to the example given by Mrs Westerveld of the nurse she had spoken to and who asked what was the most important thing. I agree with her reaction to trusting the district nurse. We have said for a reason that in the neighborhood nurse care the indication will be given by the neighborhood nurse. Fortunately, many district nurses also said to me: that is very good, I have my profession back. This confidence must of course be further developed and the quality of the profession must be further discussed, but it is very good that the district nurse himself now has more control. We have already given some attention to the funding in the debate, also in connection with Mr Rutte's remarks on this subject. No adjustment is foreseen on 1 January 2018. That would be a little weird, too. There is, however, a broader and longer route around the development of the district care. The Healthcare Authority will also be discussing the funding of palliative care with experts from the field at the beginning of next year. I say, also in response to Mr Rutte's question, that we will inform the Chamber more about this in the next progress letter. Mr Rutte quite correctly outlines the dilemma: on the one hand, there is the need to say: not too many rules, not too much administrative burden, let us make it a single rate. Mrs Agema has, quite rightly, argued earlier that it should be made as simple as possible. At the same time, you can see that sometimes it works out with a small provider or azzp'er in such a way that it can be less easily resourced than a large institution, where it does not work out in the average. That is exactly the heart of the debate in which we need to look at what is the most appropriate funding now, especially for specific areas of care. Mrs Keijzer asked whether insurers should simply ensure that care is available at home. Yes, that's the case. The duty of care is not a document in which you generally define a duty of care, but creates an individual right. It is a health insurance scheme in which there is therefore an individual right. The health care provider should then ensure that that care can also be provided. Even when it comes to palliative home care, it should be available. Mrs Keijzer asked a specific question about dementia care. I now have no signals that dementia care is not being sufficiently bought in, and that is not apparent from the Health Authority's monitor. By the way, I will come back to this in detail in the letter on dementia care which will be sent to the Chamber very soon. Then there is the question of how many nurses are currently employed. There are not very recent data on this. The most recent data come from a study from 2015 and according to that research there were over 8,500 district nurses working in home care. Includingzzp'ers there would be about 8,800. You can see that there is a growth in the number of courses. The influx into the HBO Nursing programme is rising sharply. In 2016, 6,500 students started the programme, while in 2014 there were 5,000 students. This school year, colleges are going to train another 2,000 extra full-time students. About half of the graduates are going to work in health care and of this about 16% are going to work there for a while. So there's still some success to be made. Mr Van der Staaij raised a very important issue, in the sense that we are actually at the stage where we can see that the conditions are being met and that there may not be a problem in terms of money and rules, but that there are problems in practice. I have already mentioned a few points. What strikes me is that, in terms of transparency and communication on how providers and insurers make the state of production visible to each other and the problems they face, there is still a point. Regional cooperation is another issue. And then there is the last point that we have already raised, and that is the question of whether you should go to an integral rate with averages or to specific rates for specific parts of the care. These are, I think, three issues that will be very important for the future. I would strongly urge that not so much the system discussion for the coming period, but that we look at how we can really do better in practice. The examples are there, and I think it can be done. Again, the palliative-terminal care, whether it is hospital care, hospice care or care at home, is gradually also at a very high international level. However, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that all the stories about supervision and proactive attitude also concern the Hague side and that it is primarily a matter of concern to get it right in practice. That is why I think that hotline is important. That is why we are also maintaining the practical team, and that is why we are going to make the good examples of the practice available to everyone. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have already given sufficient consideration to the question of the changes in funding. This also applies to the Healthcare Authority's bottlenecks analysis on palliative terminal care. In fact, the Healthcare Authority says that there are no major problems with regard to funding, except for that point of integral or specific. There are a lot of different information questions. The fact that there is still a great deal of uncertainty in practice as to exactly how it is regulated already indicates this. So we have created the information card for healthcare professionals so that there is also more clarity for healthcare professionals about how it is now regulated in practice. I've also announced all the round tables we're going to have with the field. Mr. Chairman. I thought I also answered Mr Rutte's questions on that point. The Labour Market Agenda, as he has also emphasised, is incredibly important, but especially on those three different tracks: not just attracting new staff, not just realising new and other ways of working, but above all maintaining staff, ensuring that we pay a great deal of attention to sitting staff and the way we contract, and that there are more permanent faces and reducing administrative burdens. I very much agree with Mr Rutte that not everything should always be regulated at the highest level of training, but that much can also be done by different trainers, especially when we do so with each other. I see that in the healthcare sector, the social partners, education and government are pulling together to make this Labour Market Agenda, with the urgency that Mrs Bergkamp mentioned. This is far from ready, but at least good steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We shall now proceed to the second term of the Chamber, in which Mrs Agema will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term response and for his cooperative attitude. I hope that after years of this kind of very sad debate we can really start a change. I think we should ask the NZa to look a little more broadly, so that she does not just look at what she has now proposed, namely only the funding within the current system of the Health Insurance Act. I think that there is also a nice solution in the Long-Term Care Act, in a much quieter setting. I would have tabled a motion on the budget ceilings, but instead I co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's motion because he came along with a similar motion. I would have liked to have tabled the motion as an applicant for the debate, but we are not going to table two motions on the same subject, Mr President. Well, I do have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to prevent the dying from falling further into the spokes of the system, so that they cannot die wherever they want to, and to come up with structural solutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr President, thank you very much. We have talked today about an extremely important subject, and fortunately nobody in the Chamber is denying it either. The fact is that it's sad that we're talking about it again today, because we wouldn't talk about it if it weren't necessary. I have already mentioned in my first term the motion that we received in July of this year, in which we have already insisted that people should at least not be allowed to see the system. It must not be possible to look at each other and the patient, in this case the dying patient, will suffer. We believe that we really need to be active in the direction of the NZa's actions, so that this kind of problem cannot be avoided in the future. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that patients who are terminally ill sometimes cannot die at home because there is no home care available;]] [[In accordance with Amendment No 29689 adopted, the Government requests that the Council, acting on a proposal from the European Parliament and the Council, 838, once again urge the Dutch Healthcare Authority to direct and ensure that sufficient care is purchased so that waiting lists and patient stops are prevented, and to inform the Court of Justice of this soon,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for his reply and his answer to the questions. It is good to note that there is a great deal of consensus in the Chamber and that both Members of Parliament and the Secretary of State believe that a budget ceiling or a lack of finance should never be a reason to refuse people in need of palliative care. But more importantly, of course, it is not just fine words, but we are solving the problems in practice. A number of Members have tabled motions on this subject, which we wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you. I call Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and the commitments he has made, including with regard to research into the financing of these specific intensive forms of care. I am very pleased with that and I am happy to see the results. The Chamber will certainly debate this, albeit no longer with this Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have signed a motion on Mr Van der Staaij's budget ceiling. I have my own motion on the practice team palliative care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the past year, in dozens of cases, people stayed in hospitals and hospitals against their wishes, because palliative terminal care was not available at home;]] [[Whereas people who wish to die at home should be able to receive palliative terminal care at home in a timely manner;]] [[Whereas the task of the palliative care team is to actively and directly resolve bottlenecks in the region, but not all bottlenecks reach the practical team;]] [[calls on the government to raise awareness of the palliative care practice team and to speed up the deployment of the practical team to arrange palliative terminal care at home if hospitals and hospitals fail to move forward,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Keijzer, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Arno Rutte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you. I call Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij's question actually continues to trigger me. We have seen today that we are politically united. The Secretary of State wants it, the health insurance companies want it, and so do the healthcare providers. Why, then, are there still the problems we have identified with each other today? That is why I hope that in a year's time we will not be here again, but that the problems will be resolved. That is why we have signed a number of motions. I also understand Mrs Marijnissen's action to retable her motion, because there are still problems. I thank the Secretary of State for his commitments. I am pleased that thezzp'er gets more attention and also gets explicit attention in the monitor and that the Secretary of State will also examine whether they fit in with the strategy and that he will also look at the new quality framework. When can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber about this? The labour market remains a problem. Many actions have been implemented, and we will follow closely whether they will ultimately lead to the results that we want to achieve. Mr. Chairman. That was the end of my speech. I'm just gonna take a quick look to see if there were any questions left. No, that's not the case. For the rest, I have co-signed many motions, such as those on budget ceilings and practical teams. I would also like to thank Mrs Agema for asking for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you. I call Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I am also grateful to him for the fact that it was much wider than just the familiar whirlwind and for the commitments he made. It's nice to see that we're all actually thinking the same thing about this, that the noses are in the same direction. The bottlenecks are only in the system. I, too, have co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's motion on the budget ceilings. And to be certain, I have a motion of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still budget ceilings in the palliative-terminal care system at home;]] [[Whereas anyone wishing to die at home should be able to die and the necessary care should be available;]] [[Whereas health care providers should submit reasoned applications for the financing of palliative terminal care at home to the health insurance provider and subsequently assess them;]] [[Whereas an application for this care is not made for nothing and should be based on the expertise of the district nurse;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that further administrative arrangements are made between health insurers and healthcare providers that when applying for palliative terminal care at home the judgment of the district nurse should be guiding, budget ceiling or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mr Van der Staaij then has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the reply and for the commitments. I'd like to table another motion on one point. Because it's widely signed, I'd better get started, because I have a lot of names to read. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas budget ceilings or inadequate health insurance contracts still prevent people from dying in the place where they and their relatives so wish;]] [[Considering that there are also health insurers that respond to the broad shared societal desire to prevent this and therefore specifically do not include in the contract any budget ceiling or maximum growth rate when purchasing palliative terminal care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that further administrative arrangements are made between health insurers and healthcare providers with the aim that health insurers no longer apply budget ceilings or maximum growth rates in the care purchase of palliative terminal care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Keijzer, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Westerveld, Mr Agema and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28282-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr Rutte has a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij's motion is very sympathetic. I think I can go very far with it, but do I understand that he really wants to get rid of all the budget ceilings in home care, does he say we shouldn't want that anymore? Or does he say: no, this is really very specific about palliative home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u95	No, if you look at the formulation, it's not about budget ceilings in the whole of the care, but very specific about palliative terminal care. It is precisely there that the light sides that can be on budget ceilings, a certain limitation, volume control and so on do not occur, because the terminal care should simply be provided, while the shadow sides that can be on budget ceilings are particularly painful here. That is the reason for this particular motion, aimed solely at the palliative terminal care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you very much. I call Mr Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. A word of thanks to the Secretary of State. He has addressed all the questions of the Chamber in great detail. That is important, because it is an issue on which we are so widely held that we want to have it well organized, because the organisation is sometimes difficult. We have already had several debates on it. I agree with others, such as Mrs Bergkamp, who have said that they hope that we will not have to have this debate again next year. Mr President, I also have a motion on two things. The motion is not about one thing, namely the demand for tariffs, because it is already being investigated. We are very satisfied with that. That's what needs to be done. The motion is about two things that must contribute to the fact that we do not need to have this kind of debate in the future, namely to ensure that we do things differently in good time and understand what works in practice. I'd better get started. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the final phase of their lives people cannot always die at the place where they want to, i.e. at home;]] [[Whereas palliative community care should be available in a timely and adequate manner;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage with the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) with the aim of ensuring that the NZa, after the publication of the procurement policy in the spring, ensures that both the procurement policy and the contracting of palliative district care is adequate;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the experiences of the field teams become widely available and shared with all relevant parties, thus making best practices the norm for the entire palliative district care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arno Rutte, Mr Keijzer, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he can reply almost immediately, once all motions have been distributed. That's what we're waiting for. We'll take a break for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u99	The Secretary of State has all the motions. A total of six have been submitted. A number of questions have also been asked. The Secretary of State is given the floor in the second term to give an opinion on the motions and to answer the remaining questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions. Mrs Bergkamp asked the specific question when the NZa's progress report could be expected. That will be the case at the beginning of 2018. I assume this will be something for my successor. I'll take that as a assumption. Then I come to the motions, first of all the motion-Agema Gebrands in part No. 279. Apart from the precise wording, I believe that I would have put it a different way. I say: I do not want to be against this at all. We all believe that there should be structural solutions and that people should not fall apart. They must be able to die in the place where they want to do so most. I find this to support policy and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the Marijnissen motion in part No. 280 is asked the government once again to urge the Dutch Healthcare Authority to conduct the direction. I have already responded by saying that we are being monitored by the NZa on this point. In the spring of 2018, the NZa will return with a monitor in which the purchase by insurers will be investigated. As far as I am concerned, palliative care has once again been included as a specific theme. I think that we are moving in line with each other and I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 281 calls on the government to raise awareness and speed up the deployment of the practical team. There is one wording in the motion which may lead to misunderstandings. Yeah, the practice team can be deployed faster. Yeah, it could be made more public. But it says "to switch on faster to arrange palliative terminal care at home." This is, of course, something the healthcare provider should do together with the health insurance provider. But I think we understand each other very well: to raise awareness of the team and to speed it up. If I may read the motion in this way, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion-Sazias c.s. in piece No. 282 the government is asked to achieve administrative agreements with each other. I think there's two things going on. The district nurse and the indication, so to speak, are a bit confused with the budget agreements the insurer makes with the provider. I have already said in the debate that I agree that the district nurse should always give the indication and that the insurer should take it over, but that the budget ceilings are in fact separate from that. These are about which contract agreements the health insurance company and the healthcare provider make about the budget. It says that the judgment of the district nurse should be leading, budget ceiling or not. That's true, but in my view it has nothing to do with each other. Unless the motion is formulated differently, I would not want this misunderstanding and I would therefore advise against the motion at this stage. In the motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 283 calls on the government to ensure that administrative arrangements are made between health insurers and healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mrs Sazias would like to comment on the motion on item No. 282, to avoid misunderstandings, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u102	As far as the 'budget ceiling' is concerned, it is precisely the following. The opinion of the district nurse is always leading, unless the budget ceiling is in sight. Then the health insurance company joins us and is going to help determine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u103	No, that's exactly my point: the neighborhood nurse indicates the indication. This is leading, as stated in the Health Insurance Act: neighborhood nurse care like the neighborhood nurse who tends to offer. Also with a budget ceiling, the indication of the district nurse remains guiding. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u104	Is it so leading that it can break the budget ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u105	If there is more care to be provided and the health insurance provider does not manage the duty of care differently, the health insurance provider will be able to contract or have to do so, if the duty of care cannot otherwise be filled in. You have a right to care. Budget agreements with a provider may result in you purchasing more care from that provider or the health insurance provider will arrange for you to receive that care from another healthcare provider. However, the obligation of care for the insured person means that the insured person must always be provided with care. The judgment, the indication, of the district nurse is and remains leading, regardless of the budget agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u106	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mrs Sazias is considering amending her motion if necessary. In this form it has been dissuaded by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u108	In the motion in part No. 283 we are asked to ensure that further administrative arrangements are made. I think I understand the intention of the motion. That is indeed my commitment. Whether these administrative arrangements will be made depends on the other administrative arrangements. So I assume that this is an effort on my part to ensure that we can make those agreements. I am, of course, dependent on those other parties. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 284 actually consists of two parts. The government is asked to engage with the Healthcare Authority, with the aim of ensuring that procurement policy is adequate. And the second part asks to ensure that those experiences are widely shared and that best practices become the norm. It may also be a bit of the wording, but I do not think that Mr Rutte means that the government should instruct the Healthcare Authority to do something. The Healthcare Authority is, of course, an independent administrative body that decides on its own actions. But that "conversing with" to confirm that the Healthcare Authority is going to do so is good. That does not mean that there is an assignment from me to the Healthcare Authority, but that we are going to have a conversation to see that that monitoring is up to it. If I may read the motion in this way, and with that remark, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you. This brought an end to the reply from the cabinet in the second term, and this also ended the debate on palliative care in the district care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-4.u110	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for his reply. I thank the spokesmen for their input. We'll be voting on the motions next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.15 p.m. Afterwards, the Court will continue its work.
