ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u1	I welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give Mrs Bruins Slot the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u2	Mr. Chairman. This year hundreds of thousands of young people were allowed to vote for the first time. With recruiting actions they were called to vote: your vote matters! And rightly so. Voices stand for participation in democracy. The electoral process must therefore be careful and correct. Every voice of people has to count. But thousands of people in Boxmeer have gone to the ballot box for nothing. This does not increase confidence in the functioning of democracy. The investigation report reminds me of a series of falling dominoes. The CDA considers it important that these mistakes can be avoided in the future, but to get there, it is important to look at the process carefully first. Before the elections, the Minister has been struggling in using or not using the Supporting Software Elections: at first, then, not then, and then again, but not quite. On February 1st, the Minister decided that no software should be used. On the basis of what powers could the Minister take this decision instead of the Election Council, which deals with the software? On 15 February, the Minister decided that only the use of a counting tool such as the spreadsheet could be used. On 3 March, the Minister decided that software could still be used. How have municipalities, which are responsible for the implementation of the electoral process, been involved in the ever-changing decision-making on the use of the software? This got municipalities in trouble. On March 7th they only received the software. There weren't the usual information meetings this time. The Minister was right to insist on the need for double imports, the four-eyed principle and manual counting. It is therefore very regrettable that Den Bosch did not follow those instructions to carry out the checks properly. Den Bosch, for example, has abandoned double imports. How does the Minister intend to prevent this and improve supervision? And is it normal for log files to be erased from software so that the cause of errors can no longer be determined? The research office has limited itself to the errors presented by Den Bosch, Bergeijk and Boxmeer. Why didn't the Bureau of Investigation continue to look at irregularities in Den Bosch's constituency? Have we discovered all the facts in Den Bosch by now? This is independent of the fact that the Supporting Software Elections need improvement. Will the Election Council or the Minister check whether the software used by municipalities meets the requirements in advance? How is the Minister going to do that differently than is being done now? 'Cause it's not like nothing's happening right now. And what possibility is being developed to allow digital transmission of counting results to main polling stations? After the election, the dominoes rolled through. The inspection of the minutes has been a circus in itself. Apparently, not all municipalities had expected access to the right of access. The CDA Group agrees with the Minister that access can be achieved much better by means of publication on the Internet. That fits better with the present time. When does he intend to prepare legislation that regulates this? At the same time, the Election Board is compiling the results with cutting and sticking work. Will a full overview of 2017 still work? For example, does the Election Council now have access to all N11s? And will the Election Council also be empowered in the Election Act to request the results from the municipalities, so that he can also receive the electronic files? I do not see the Minister coming to a clear conclusion on this. The municipal elections are coming into view. Improvements are necessary to maintain confidence in a correct and careful electoral process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u3	Mr Krol would be the next speaker, but I do not see him in the Chamber. We will continue to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u4	Mr. Chairman. We vote in this country with pencil and paper. We do so on the assumption that the result of an election would then be reliable and reproducible. The run-up to this debate brings that assumption into a special light. Major count errors have been detected. In Bergeijk the votes on D66 didn't count, but there are really people who voted for D66 there. In Boxmeer, no one found it strange that only four parties were voted on. In total, this error amounts to almost 10,000 votes. We were assured that this would not affect the distribution of seats. By this the Election Council and the Minister referred to the distribution of seats between the parties, but there are many candidates who came close to the preferred threshold. Can the Minister also rule out any impact on the distribution of seats at the candidate level? I am pleased that the Minister has announced that he is going to change the law in order to quickly correct errors and avoid doubt in the future. The minutes of the polling stations will then be published online. That seems to me to fit in better with the present time frame. They are now only placed for inspection and then disappear under lock and key, assuming that what you cannot know cannot be called into question either. How soon does the Minister think he'll have that law ready? How can we get wider deadlines for correcting errors? Now we're still working with the current law. That's why I have a few questions. If the Chamber so wishes, is there another way to postpone the destruction of the Minutes on Thursday and have the results double-checked? I would like the Minister to give me a ruling on this. 48% of the municipalities have now published the results per list at polling station level online and 17% of municipalities did so per candidate. Do they not break the law by doing so? I come to the counting process as such. Municipalities were given alternate instructions on 1 February, 15 February, 3 March and 7 March. I can imagine that this has been very difficult for municipalities to handle. Couldn't the minister have communicated more clearly? Why did he do that in four rounds with different instructions? Many municipalities also deliberately deviated from the Minister's voting instructions. It concerns, among other things, the double introduction and the four-eyed principle, precisely those points where it seems to have gone wrong. Reason for this: it takes far too much time and experienced voters have their own methods. I find that worrying. It seems as if the municipalities and the minister have lived and communicated side by side. In his letter, the minister focuses on what he expects of municipalities, but shouldn't he also look at what municipalities expect of him? What exactly is the status of these per circular requirements? What is its legal status? The OSCE also points to the size of the ballot for miscounts. The Minister himself cites his rejected bill for a trial with a smaller ballot. Does the extra experience in this election provide a basis for him to come up with such a proposal again? Is there another way to prevent people voting only for a party, as now 7.7% of Dutch people do abroad? I'm rounding up. I am curious to see the speed with which the Minister, in his own good proposals, is working, both to answer our questions and to make sure that the results of the forthcoming municipal elections are no longer in doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u5	Mr. Chairman. The election of the House of Representatives is perhaps the most important foundation of our democracy. Each election is accompanied by minor disturbances. During the last election, however, you can no longer speak of "small disturbances" because more than 8,700 voters cast their votes, but their votes are not counted in determining the final result. GroenLinks takes that very seriously. In fact, thousands of voters have been denied the right to vote. That is not only an infringement of a fundamental fundamental right, but it also undermines confidence in democracy. However, my group is pleased that the Minister also considers this serious and has taken it as an opportunity to take a number of measures. GroenLinks supports him in that. However, we continue to wonder whether the Minister's measures will be sufficient, also in view of the forthcoming municipal elections. The establishment of better rules is of course important, but the problem in Boxmeer, for example, was precisely that the rules were not complied with. What can the Minister do to improve the enforcement of these rules? The Election Board notes that errors that municipalities make in totalising the results and errors in polling stations cannot be detected by the current way of checking. The Minister states in his response to the evaluation that he is going to investigate this. That sounds rather calm, but my group is really in a hurry. Can the Minister put a deadline on that investigation? I'm here for the foreign votes. People who want to vote from abroad often hear the complaint that they received the ballot far too late. That way they can't fill it out in time and send it back. The Minister says that in some cases the sending of ballots takes a long time and that the final establishment of the electoral lists must be awaited. But did the city of The Hague actually send the ballots to the residents on the first day that this was possible? GroenLinks is pleased that the Minister wants to relax some rules for voting abroad, such as the colour of the pen to be used and the envelopes when voting. Can the Minister make every effort to ensure that these changes are made before the elections to the European Parliament? Finally, a question on accessibility. Last year an amendment was adopted by my colleague Linda Voortman and by Otwin van Dijk of the PvdA. It makes 100% access to voting rooms mandatory for people with disabilities. The survey carried out by the Minister shows that 88% of the polling stations are now accessible to these people. Then I'm talking about accessibility, accessibility and usability. So we are well on our way, but the Minister writes in his evaluation letter that he leaves giving a policy response to that investigation to a next cabinet. In the meantime, he does not want what is requested in the amendment to enter into force. At least that's how I read it. I find that rather bizarre. The Chamber has indicated that it wants this. Demissionary status is not in the way of the Minister in that sense. Why isn't he just gonna go through with this now? Why is there such restraint? Or should I take it as a Minister's refusal? In the upcoming elections, 100% of the voting rooms could be accessible to people with disabilities. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u6	Mrs Özütok, there was some confusion on the subject. During this afternoon's work, it was agreed to discuss the other issues, such as foreign votes, in another debate. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u7	Well, I didn't go into that too much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u8	No, it's okay. I call Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u9	Mr. Chairman. Parliamentary elections are about trust, because during the elections the Dutch decide on the future of the country. They decide how to distribute wealth, how to organise care, how to deal with discrimination and racism. Hundreds of thousands of citizens went to the polling station for the first time. Many had lost faith in democracy, but thanks to parties like DENK many people have gone to the ballot box. And what do we see? That this confidence has been seriously damaged. 7,600 votes were not included in the census in the municipality of Boxmeer, 1,100 votes were not included in the census in the municipality of Bergeijk. These are the democratic voices of almost 9,000 people who have handled them carelessly. Fundamental rights have not been honored 9,000 times. 9,000 opinions have just been ignored. It can't be. The government has rightly commissioned independent investigations. But what do we read in the Minister's letter? He talks about the findings with the head polling station in Den Bosch. The people in the country don't want a conversation, they want measures. 9% of the municipalities did not participate in the evaluation study. How is that possible? So how many more municipalities have made mistakes? How can the public still trust this? What is the Minister going to do to rule out the dumping of votes in the future? How's he gonna restore people's trust in the election? Does he take the criticisms of his own ministry to heart? His ministry was very late in drawing up the requirements for the processing of votes. Is he gonna do this faster next time? The voter's confidence is put to the test by the increase in invalid votes. We do not read about this in the Minister's letter, but it does notice DENK. But also the citizen, the voter sees this. During several meetings, including those of the Election Council, people told about problems with invalid votes. There were also voices that went to DENK. That's sad, isn't it? During the last election, there were over 10,000 additional invalid votes. This cannot be explained by the increase in the total number of votes. Why was the number of invalid votes so high? 18% of the members of the polls didn't take training. Have you trained his polls enough? Do they know when and how they declare a vote invalid? Is it clear to them when a vote is invalid? I'd like a response, Minister. 9,000 not counted votes, 10,000 additional invalid votes; confidence in the elections is under pressure. We therefore call for measures to increase confidence in voting and counting. DENK therefore proposes the introduction of a new observation system. A system in which members of political parties observe the votes and the censuses. Representatives from several parties should be present at each polling station to monitor the process. Afterwards, they will be able to submit a report. The Ministry should facilitate and organise this. What does the Minister think of this plan? I'm closing up. I started my contribution by saying that elections are about trust. It is now up to the Minister to increase and restore confidence as much as possible before the municipal elections in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u10	Mr. Chairman. In the elections on 15 March, thousands of votes were not counted or went to another party, or there were votes that were never cast. Human error. That had to do with the fact that votes had to be counted by hand. From polling station to municipality, to constituency, to main polling station, to Election Board; all steps, all by hand. Why is that? Because we stopped voting machines and we weren't even allowed to count with electronic devices connected to the Internet. The reason is that we have been warned about this by secret services from our own country and abroad, because voting and counting via computers is no longer safe. However, today we do need to draw some lessons for the March 2018 Council elections. Since the Ukraine referendum, we have seen that municipalities have cut the number of polling stations. There's a lot less polling stations. At these polling stations you also see that people often have to sit there all day, from early in the morning to late in the evening, after which they still have to count at night. You can also see that there are more and more employees there who are insufficiently trained. What you can see is that at many polling stations the auditors, who are certainly important when counting manually, always look with their own eyes, and that other checks are not carried out properly. I asked the Minister after the election to make all the votes public. Some municipalities didn't want that. It has happened in the end, and thanks to the work of the Political Academy we now know how many mistakes have been made. The Minister makes a proposal for some legal adjustments to ensure that the Council elections in March 2018 can improve, so that polling offices can fix their own mistakes, there is more time to vote and count and the minutes are made public, and everyone can check it properly. I think that's important. Furthermore, I think it is important for this Chamber today to state that the Minister must now get to work on this, so that it can be settled by March next year, so that we do not have the same problems. Because now it probably hasn't affected the outcome, but if so many mistakes are made in the Council elections, it will affect the outcome. But more needs to be done. I think the Minister should also take responsibility for the fact that there are enough polling stations. One of the reasons why there have been so many problems in counting is the size of the banknotes, but also the number. There's just a lot of people going to vote. I hope that this will be done in March next year in the Council elections. But if there are fewer polling stations, you just have more to count. I also have questions about the number of people present. Is it absolutely necessary for people to be there from early in the morning to late in the evening and then have to count at night? Isn't there a fracture possible? Isn't it possible to replace people? Isn't it especially important to train people? If this minister says to the polling stations that there should be sufficient controls, people need to know what that control means and they need to do so. Is the Minister prepared to get the necessary legislation in place as soon as possible? Is he prepared to discuss with the municipalities that there are sufficient polling stations and sufficiently trained people? Finally, the Minister writes that a number of polling stations used voting office apps. We have seen ourselves that, among other things, Molenwaard voting apps are developing for the council elections. We also see that the VNG has adopted a motion on voting apps and voting machines. We didn't agree to that. We didn't stop voting machines for nothing because it's not safe. Is the Minister prepared to engage with the VNG in order to prevent municipalities from hobbying with all kinds of voting apps, which is not safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is wearing big pants when it comes to elections in many foreign countries. For example, we are giving 40 million to Afghanistan, hoping that they will organise good elections there. There's 7.5 million going to the Palestinian territories, with the same assignment. South Sudan has also received funds from the Netherlands for the development of the rule of law. But perhaps it is better to focus on the Netherlands, because in the most recent elections we have seen how things can go badly wrong. It was Mr Murphy who seemed to control the organization. The most important issue the Minister for Foreign Affairs has is to take care of the elections. That is the essence of the democratic process, which comes first. He must ensure that the elections and thus democracy can be carried out. The Minister is right to say that it is very important that the results of the elections are trusted. That's exactly where the shoe wrings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u12	The Netherlands gives money to have an organisation check whether the elections are going well in other countries, but there is also an OSCE final report. A comment is made in the direction of the PVV. I would like to quote from that and put a question to Mr Bosma. It says: "Although a number of parties addressed different aspects of immigration policy in their campaign, there was one party in particular that went deeply into this issue and sometimes used discriminatory stereotypes and intolerant rhetoric to attack Muslims, migrants and asylum seekers." That is what the OSCE, the organisation that is almost all over the world about elections, says about the PVV. How does the PVV feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u13	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u14	So you disagree with the OSCE? Do you think the OSCE is a "nonsense organization" because this is about you? Or do you only find this when it suits you? These are organisations that show that a party here in this Chamber discriminates, attacks people, attacks our citizens. But this spokesperson of the PVV is the only answer: "nonsense." This shows that the PVV has really sunk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year, during the Lower House elections, the threat or actually a rumor about a hack was enough to significantly disrupt the Dutch electoral system. Not only have more than 9,000 votes disappeared; what else has gone wrong is not fully known. We still don't know. We simply cannot check that anymore. The Minister himself writes in his letter that it has not been investigated whether the polling stations or the mayor have made mistakes in adding the polling stations. In fact, these two cases were discovered by chance in Boxmeer and Bergeijk. Boxmeer is a stronghold of the SP and in Bergeijk it mainly concerned the D66 votes. You should not think that the same things would happen in Volendam or Rucphen! The Minister has played a form of panic football throughout this process, which has had a very bitter aftertaste. I refer, for example, to the shocking report by Andersson Elffers Felix. It says something about software that I think: do I get it or don't I get it? On February 1st, the Minister said, no, we're not going to use any software. That was too dangerous. I get that. Through all kinds of intermediate routes and between formulations, this was possible again on March 3rd. In this report I read how it works at the main polling station in Den Bosch. There are malfunctions in that OSV software. When processing the voting totals of the municipality of Boxmeer there is also a malfunction. All data entered by the main voting office into the OSV software will be lost and must be re-entered. I do not understand that, because I believe that this measure has been taken to prevent electronic traffic. After all, the Russians or other bad guys can come to break in, but here one mistake at Boxmeer has immediate consequences for a very large number of polling stations. I don't understand, because it shows that it's much more vulnerable than we ever thought. At least, if I understand correctly. I may have lost sight of all these measures in February and March, but if one mistake is made somewhere, a network is apparently being compromised. I think that's a very scary thing to do. This raises a lot of questions. Does the Election Council really have access to all the material, analog and digital? We're meeting tonight for the destruction of the minutes. Can we still stop that destruction? What's the point? Could that bring us information we don't have right now? The minister says the results would have been no different. I understand that at party level, but there are also many candidates who could or could not have been elected with preferred votes. Can the Minister guarantee that the outcome would not be different? Is everything now on track for the municipal elections, which are coming very soon? And there is indeed the issue of austerity. During the last elections, including in a referendum, there were dramatically fewer polling stations. The people sitting there have to work much harder, from early in the morning to late in the evening. When they are tired and long for their bedside, they have to count again. That is almost asking for difficulties and problems. Is this really the way to do this now? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u16	Madam President. The determination of the results of the elections should be a careful process. Occasionally, there were examples of voters reporting in the past, because their vote or their preferred vote was not reflected in the determined outcome of a municipality or polling station. In general, however, there was a picture that the result was an accurate representation of the votes cast. However, on the basis of a systematic analysis of the results of the Dutch Parliamentary Election on 15 March last at electoral level, the Political Academy now differs to the number of 13,812, while the Election Council, the highest body, ultimately reaches 9,064 differences. Then you're already wondering how to explain this difference, because that's weird. If the analyses were indeed careful and absolutely reliable, they should achieve the same number of differences. You may then wonder if that is perhaps because municipalities have only provided their overall overview and the Political Academy has taken over the results by polling station. The Political Academy also mentions examples: 400 votes difference in Meierijstad, while this difference in the list of Elections does not occur. That would therefore be in favour of much better control within the municipality and at the main voting office. At the moment, there seems to be insufficient control mechanisms to really determine whether the result is correct. I agree with my fellow Members who stress that with the care and reliability of this result, confidence in the whole democratic system is also a matter of concern. That doesn't really stand or fall with that, but it is connected with that. Under the Tickets Act, it is mandatory to keep the documents three months after the removal has been established. They can then only be seen for the purposes of judicial investigation. You can question that, too. I agree with those colleagues who have done so. Isn't this rule too rigid? Isn't there any way to protect the pieces longer from destruction? Is that possible in the short term? It would be contrary to the Election Act to ask municipalities to access the documents during those three months, but what exactly should the Election Council investigate and not investigate during those three months? Does the Election Council indeed have more powers to request information in this area than private organisations, as suggested in the letter from the Political Academy? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The publication of the results by municipality and the extension of the period of inspection are necessary. It's too much haste now. It is also difficult to find out the results by polling station. These events make it clear that we need to work quickly on electronic voting or counting votes electronically. We would like to see action by the Minister in this area. With the next question I would like to close. What possibilities does the Minister see for taking steps in this quiet, outgoing period, which is likely to last for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u17	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Koopmans. He speaks on behalf of the VVD. Mr Koopmans' birthday is today. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u18	Thank you. It's nice that you've all come to my birthday. Tracing in the cafeteria afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Elections are, of course, at the heart of democracy. Everyone must be able to rely on that. Elections must be fair and reliable. Elections must also be conducted efficiently and promote participation as much as possible. There may therefore be no doubt whatsoever as to the determination of the final result, but unfortunately there are some points in it. Mistakes have been made. Fortunately, the Minister concluded that these errors did not affect the final result of the election. We are glad to hear that and we hear that he would like to confirm again here. But it's still a serious matter. Where is the responsibility, but above all prospectively, how are we going to prevent errors in the future? One element: it has been decided not to use supporting election software. As a result, a lot of extra work has been created and there is a significant increase in the risk of errors. Could this have been anticipated earlier, but especially prospectively, looking ahead, how can we avoid problems in the forthcoming municipal elections? What specific proposals can the Minister make to modernise the legislation? I am thinking in particular of adapting any deadlines, but also of using software. The Van Beek Committee made a number of proposals on this subject and the VVD made an initiative proposal that unfortunately did not make it here last time. I therefore ask the Minister what specific proposals he could now make. In the next debate we will be discussing the problems of voting abroad and the problems of people with disabilities. So we will be glad to discuss that at that next opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u19	The Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u20	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin my reply by thanking the approximately 55,000 people who have sat at all these polling stations all day long and have done counts and add-ons and who have done this work to a large extent from idealism and commitment to democracy. It is, of course, sad that we have to be together here. Mrs Bruins Slot rightly said that every vote counts. In the campaign we also constantly say to all voters: go vote, because every vote counts. Of course, this means that any vote that is not then counted is a breach of trust, which could lead people to think next time: well, that's what they say now, but every vote doesn't count at all. So it is a serious matter that we take very seriously. Even now that the Election Council has concluded that it would not ultimately have mattered for the composition of the Chamber, it is still true that a number of thousands of votes have not been counted. Every mistake is just one too many. Before I come to the answer per speaker, I would like to make a few general points. First of all, that is the legal framework. The Tickets Act is an extremely detailed law that quite precisely regulates who should do what, where and when and who gets access to which and who doesn't. Of course, this has been done with a view to preventing, for example, a member of the government or a member of any political organisation from having any influence on the counting, addition or determination. So it's a detailed law. The main point of that law is that shortly after the elections, eight days after the elections, the representative body, in this case the House of Representatives, it also applies mutatis mutandis to municipal councils and States. That's irrevocable. This means that it cannot be said after that: on second thought, there has been a mistake, you should not have been sitting here. The Tickets Act expressly means that the composition of that Chamber is irrevocable. The reasoning under the Kieswet is: 'I will discuss whether that reasoning is sustainable in the long term, I do not think that in those eight days we will do everything we can to ensure that the result is determined as well as possible and then close the box and no more information should be shared. In fact, the reasoning under the Kieswet is that if it were to prove that, for example, Hindeloopen, a mistake was made as a result of which a member of the Chamber was wrongly elected, this could undermine the legitimacy of the Chamber. That is undesirable, that serves no purpose, so there is no more access to the minutes. The information may therefore be deleted quite immediately and may not be stored for more than three months in any case; it must then be destroyed. I'll get back to you on that. The information shall be retained only for the purpose of judicial investigation. That is the reasoning under the Tickle Act as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u21	Exactly, and that law comes from a time when there was no internet yet. Perhaps the Minister will come back to it later, but is there any objection in principle to simply publishing all the results by polling station? If we just make them public, everyone can count them, check them out and check them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u22	Then let me anticipate in the answer what I intended to say. In my view, there is no fundamental objection to this. I think that the Tickets Act, as it is now before me and which I am now bound to, because it is of course just a law, in a sense the following paternalistic idea you might say: since the Second Chamber is irrevocably established eight days after the elections, there is no point in burdening the people in the country with further knowledge of the underlying data; after all, that can no longer have any consequence for the composition of the Second Chamber. At the present time, however, you could also use a different reasoning. Of course, every effort must be made in those eight days to ensure that the result is established as well as possible, on the basis of which the House of Representatives is set up, irrevocably. However, if all the data are public, we have to face the fact that it could theoretically be concluded, perhaps because the results of two lists or two persons are very close together, that someone, given the results in Hindeloopen, is actually wrongly chosen, which cannot be changed anymore. Of course, you have to accept that consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u23	That's very nice. That law is so complicated because people couldn't have access to it and had to trust that everyone handled it in a good way. That is, I think, one of the reasons why the Tickets Act has become so complicated and suffocating. If the results of each polling station are put on the Internet, everyone can check them and so there is no need for stifling and complicated legislation. My supplementary question is as follows. If we do that, is that time of eight days enough, or does the Minister think that we have a much more real chance of a good result and a good House of Representatives, if we take a little more time for that, because all kinds of organizations in those nine, ten or eleven days are able to check whether the result by polling station is also the result that the Election Council has?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u24	To underline Mr Van Raak's point: if you change the law, this will lead to greater transparency. To underline this, I am here to account for the fact that a mistake has been made, while I myself have no access to that information. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also unable to access that information under the Election Act. That's how restrictive the current law is. Mr Van Raak asked about the period. It was earlier twelve days, I say, out of my mind, but has been shortened to eight days under my predecessor Klaas de Vries. He said at that time, in the House of Representatives, that that was tight and I do not think I verified that, but I am almost certain that the number of lists, the number of parties at that time was smaller than now. The bills have gotten bigger. In itself, that period of eight days is already extremely tight. Any change to it will require legislation in any case. Following the opinion of the Council of State, I assume that the Election Council will also be consulted. That seems to me to be an opportunity to return to the future. I was just given the information that the period, before it was reduced to eight days, was thirteen days and not twelve days. I stand corrected. Then there is the course of events around the last election. A number of Members have questioned the way in which this has been done. We also had a wide-ranging debate with the House of Representatives at the time. There was the impression that perhaps the Russians would be after hacking elections in the Netherlands, for example. That would cast a shadow of uncertainty over the total result of the elections. In the light of this, I said at the time, and I justified it in the Chamber before the decision was taken: it seems to me desirable to ensure that this is excluded. The only way to rule that out is by ensuring that the transfer of information from the polling office to the municipality, from the municipality to the main voting office and from the main voting office to the central polling station is done manually. After all, you can all come up with scenarios for it. The information can be stored on a USB stick. That flash drive has ever been in a computer, but you can never be 100% sure if there hasn't been another flash drive in that computer that was infected with something malicious, which means that stick isn't safe anymore. Again, it's all scenario thinking, but the specialists said you can't rule that out 100% unless you transport that information manually. Then there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u25	I think that the Minister is now a bit easy...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u26	I'd like to interrupt. The minister hadn't finished his line. Maybe it's okay if he finishes his sentence. Then Mrs. Bruins Slot will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u27	Then it was said by the municipalities: we would very much like to use a tool for the addition itself. Then can we use a calculator? Yes. Can we also use the OSV program, which we are used to? The answer to that question was: yes, but you must stick to what has also been discussed with the Chamber, namely that the transmission of that information must be done manually each time. I can imagine that the municipalities say: first they should not use a tool at all, but later they should. That really happened after the congregations urged it to do so. They said: otherwise we have a practical problem. And we were in a time trap then, because a few weeks before the elections that shadow of doubt was hung over the elections. At that time, we saw that there could be consequences, that mistakes could occur. This was also seen in the Chamber debate at the time. After all, the transport of the numbers is done manually and you cannot rule out the fact that someone types in anything other than what they have been supplied with. This could lead to errors at micro level. But considering everything, it seemed better than running the risk of a hack. And the Chamber supported me in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u28	That is a process in which the Minister went from one point of view to another in a period of one month and went back and forth. In the meantime, the municipalities were left in uncertainty about the exact steps they had to take. I don't understand why the Minister, when he made that decision around February 1st, didn't wait for Fox-IT's research report on the Supporting Software Elections, which would appear a week or two later. Why do you keep playing ping-pong all the time? I talked about the dominoes in that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u29	Now Mrs Bruins Slot is asking for a reconstruction of the course of events back then. I wouldn't consider that "going back and forth." I said: I believe that the transfer of this information from the polling office to the municipality, from the municipality to the main voting office and from the main voting office to the central voting office should not be made via the freeway or via electronic media, because I cannot rule out the possibility of hacking 100%. I have maintained that position, and it has been implemented. Subsequently, the municipalities urged me not to let them do all these add-ons by hand, because that would be crazy. In that conversation with the municipalities, I first let myself be convinced that this should indeed be done with a calculator, if what goes in and what comes out but has a paper carrier. Then they asked: can that calculator be that OSV, because we are used to that? At that time, I was convinced by the municipalities that this would bring with it the least number of errors and I agreed with it. That's what I've been doing here in the Chamber. That seems to me to be a fair decision, by the way. But I understand the criticism of the municipalities that they would have preferred to know a few months earlier. All the more appreciation, moreover, that almost all the polling stations and main polling stations have been successful. Anyway, that doesn't change the fact that it went wrong in Den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u30	Indeed, it is clear that the people at the polling stations have done a great deal of work and have done so with a great deal of energy and time, and often with perseverance. When I hear the Minister's entire speech, I ask myself the following. On 1 February he makes a decision, but only on 15 February he really talks to the municipalities and finds that it is not sustainable in practice. Why didn't he do all this on February 1st, to have the overview of what the municipalities think, what the Election Council thinks and what the upcoming reports would be on the security of the Support Software Elections? Why not do that to have taken the decision at once, also around that going back and forth at first, at first, not at the time, to prevent part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u31	I've tried to argue that it was all about going back and forth. My decision, supported by the Chamber, was that there should be no electronic transfer of the results and add-on from the polling station to the municipality and from the main polling station to the central polling station. That's what I've been holding on to. There was then a follow-up question on the part of the municipalities, and that is indeed a route. It doesn't happen at a time, but they call in and pull the bell. The Dutch Association for Civil Affairs reported in. The question was: where exactly is the limit, what can we use then, can we use a calculator? If the answer is yes, then the question is again whether that calculator can be that OSV. Mrs Bruins Slot is right that this was not a single moment, but a journey. Let it have been a two-week trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u33	Good. I have written that in my letter, so I will not go back to the fact that two major mistakes were made in particular in constituency 18. In Boxmeer 7,600 votes are not counted and in Bergeijk almost 1,100 votes are not counted. Following that, I asked the Election Council whether this might have been the case elsewhere. You've seen the Election Board report. Elsewhere in the country 300 votes are not counted in a similar way, as far as one can see. That is a different order of magnitude than in electoral 18, but it is equally regrettable, of course, but not on the scale that happened in Den Bosch. For that reason, of course, I informed the Chamber immediately. I've asked the head of Den Bosch's main polling station to have an independent investigation done. You saw the report on that. I don't have to spell that out here, it goes without saying. That report showed that the instructions which have apparently been followed by other main polling offices have not been followed in terms of, for example, the independent introduction and the four-eyed principle. I mentioned in my letter to the Chamber that I will talk to the municipality to make sure that these instructions will be carried out even more emphatically next time. Finally, now that this report is here, I will invite the members of the main polling bureau of constituency 18, who are appointed members, to discuss with them the fact that they have not complied with the instructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u34	My group chairman appreciates the fact that the mistake was not in Boxmeer, but in Den Bosch. But apart from that, the Election Council has looked at the results per municipality and looked at what mistakes have been made. I think the Political Academy has looked at each polling station and seen many more mistakes. Do I have to conclude that the Election Board is always looking at the results per municipality and cannot therefore check what mistakes have been made in the transfer of the polling station to the municipality, so that these errors are always out of the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u35	It is true what Mr Van Raak says. The Political Academy has taken advantage of the eight days in which the minutes of the polling stations were available to the municipalities for my compliments, because it is important that it has done so in order to keep track of whether there are differences between what came from the polling stations and the addition made by the municipality. The fineness with which the Election Board can now look back at the information available is limited to comparing the results per municipality and the results per main polling station. There are twenty main polling stations in the Netherlands. This includes several municipalities. In the case of Den Bosch, this included Bergeijk and Boxmeer. That also explains that the Political Academy comes up with a bigger error assessment than the Election Council. The Election Council can't access that information right now. I would have done the treatment per person, but here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u36	But that shows that in the past mistakes have never been properly looked at, because one has never been able to look at the polling station level and one has never been able to see what mistakes have been made in the transfer from polling station to municipality. Now it turns out they're pretty substantial after all. We can't change that now, but it seems like a lesson for the future and an additional argument to put the minutes, the results by polling station, all online. So not only the Election Council and the Political Academy, but everyone can check that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u37	I agree. Moreover, in the letter I sent to the Chamber last night, I also listed a number of measures which are not subject to legislative amendment and which I can therefore immediately initiate. There are five of them; I will not repeat them here. In addition, legislative changes need to be introduced. I believe that Mrs Van Engelshoven asked me if I was prepared to set it in motion. I can do all the preparatory work for that. This will indeed lead to a fundamental amendment of the Election Act on this point, if the Chambers support it. It means that the principle of 'we must not know, we must not see' must be replaced by transparency. In the time of the internet this can be done in technical terms, and in terms of attitude it is now obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u38	Maybe this is the time to go into the point I made about several specific malfunctions around the main polling station. When you call the helpdesk, it is said: you have to turn off the OSV server; you have to contact all users, etc. Then follow the advice. In concrete terms, if, for example, a malfunction occurs when processing the voting totals of the municipality of Boxmeer, all data entered by the main voting office is lost in the OSV software and needs to be re-entered. Doesn't that suggest there's a network of communications? That seems to me to be the case, because how else do you communicate? And that also means it's vulnerable to third-party interference, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u39	That's not how I read it. At the main polling office, OSV software was apparently used to add the results of the municipalities to the results of the main polling office, in this case Den Bosch. When you stop and restart, that software does not apparently report that what was already entered has not been saved. We can now go into the details of how this software worked there, but I can see that this error would have come to light if the instruction had been kept and it had been repeated. Of course, it is crazy that no one at all has wondered whether it was weird that only four parties had been voted on in that entire municipality. That insight should have existed in the control. But I'm not suggesting that there's feedback from that software to the Internet. I shouldn't, but it doesn't say that in my lecture either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u40	It says that all data entered by the main voting office in the OSV software is lost. And if it happens in one place, it happens in other places. Then apparently there is a form of communication, perhaps via the Internet or any network, where you can enter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u41	At the main polling office, in this case in Den Bosch, the information of certain municipalities of Den Bosch is one of them, but Bergeijk and a number of other municipalities are also typed in from paper. The addition was typed in the OSV software. Apparently there was a malfunction. One has interrupted and restarted the process, and did not realize that what had already been introduced was not saved or recorded with it. That's how I read the investigators' report that was delivered to me last night. It does not say anywhere that that information would have been transported from the main voting office in Den Bosch via the Internet elsewhere. This all happened locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u42	I have an in-depth question on that point. It was rightly said that it is strange that no one notices that only four parties were voted on in one municipality. For that there is also the four-eyed principle. If anyone else had looked at it, he or she would probably have said, "God, it's crazy." What is the status of the Minister's demands on that process? These will be published per circular. But is it said to municipalities: does the minister like it when you do that? Or is it said: you have to do it this way, otherwise you do not carry out the process legally? Is it an instruction for the mayor? What is the status of such demands? It is important to know this, also in the context of the question: how do we ensure that municipalities act according to these methods?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u43	I asked the same question. That's a lawyer's question. What are the legal instruments? The answer to that is soft power. When the minister gives an instruction in a circular, one is supposed to act on it, but strictly speaking there is no escalation ladder if one fails to comply with that instruction. Now it appears that there has been no addition to this instruction, I invite the members of the main polling station for a discussion. That is, of course, a form of correction, but without a legal framework. I assume that the instruction will be followed at the next opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u44	But how do you make sure that the test takes place automatically in the organization? What you are really striving for is that, when these principles are put forward in a circular from the minister, the supervisory mechanism in those municipalities is aimed at ensuring that this does not go wrong. That's how I understand my colleague from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u45	I think it's strictly two different things. Mrs Van Engelshoven's question was: what is the legal instruments; what authority do you turn to the municipalities at all? I have a limited answer to that. It's more than a suggestion, but I can't force it. I can only prescribe it by circular. That is a different question from the question of how, in the organisation for which they are responsible, they then do the members of the main polling office who, of course, do not add up themselves to ensure that the instructions are carried out. I took that up in my letter. In any case, the heads must be well trained. They must then also take responsibility for ensuring that the people who do so comply with the instructions. That is a chain of commands, a chain of command, which must be well organized on the spot. Of course, that goes well in many places, but it is sad that it has gone wrong in this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u46	This regulation of a legal basis might make the basis stronger, but whether you have arranged it per circular or legal, it remains equally important that it actually happens locally. I believe that Mr Van Raak raised some good questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u48	So what does it take to get those main polling stations in place? What steps does the Minister take to ensure that this is done in a uniform manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u49	Let me say in advance of the answer to this question, and this observation is also made in the study entitled 'The pressure on the polling stations is extremely high'. That doesn't condone that they don't follow the instructions, but there's a lot of time pressure on them. The law stipulates that eight days later the new Chamber must be installed here. This means that this addition must be completed six days after the elections. The Commission for the Examination of the Letters of Faith also has the right to devote one day to it. So the pressure's high. The form has become extremely large because there are a lot of lists. For that reason, I have also announced that I would like to try again to convince the Chamber to move on to another note. I've got it right here. It is also used for voting from abroad. It seems that this can also be done in favour of voting for the Chamber. This can be counted manually very quickly, but could also be counted electronically. You indicate on the top panel: I vote for the SP. I like Mr Van Raak. I don't know exactly where he was on the list...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u50	Four.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u51	So four. So if you would like to cast a preferred vote for him, you make four red at the bottom of the note box. If you don't, you voted on that party's list leader. For voters from abroad, this is seen by the Chamber as an acceptable way of voting. And of course, it would be hugely important in the processing if we could proceed with that kind of means, but that requires a change of law. I can promise the Chamber nothing but that I will do my best to get this going as soon as possible. Mrs Bruins Slot's question on how to ensure that the polling stations comply with the instructions remains valid. I think it starts with a little lowering of the demands you're making on it. Then the pressure that's on it takes something off, and you give the desks a manageable job. Then you do get discussions about questions like: are those eight days reasonable? Are there any other ways to relieve the pressure? Do the municipalities, which have a legal obligation to set up the voting process, do that enough? This is a responsibility of the municipalities and includes the number of polling stations, the crew of the polling stations and so on. You can appeal to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u52	Looking at the deadlines is something we should also do as a Chamber, but I explicitly asked the Minister how he is looking at a uniform approach to ensure that those main polling stations are prepared for their task. I do not yet have a concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u53	That should be the case by now. I will talk to the municipalities and the Association for Civil Affairs to see if we can make a contribution to this from BZK. Let us not pretend that things did not go well anywhere either, because there are many main polling stations that have done it all, even under this great time pressure and with those long lists, flawless or as good as faultless. So I appreciate that, but I'll talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u54	We are now actually seeing a process which the Minister also says: I cannot enforce the demands I make as a minister to the municipalities and to that process. We also see in Arthur Andersen's report that employees of polling stations give all kinds of reasons why they deviate from those instructions. Sometimes it is: I already have a lot of experience with this and I always do it in a different way and that works fine. There's actually no good way to check afterwards whether that process was properly organized. Then there is no way to determine afterwards whether the functioning of the polling station has led to the right result. I hope that the Minister will agree with me on this in order to see how we can at least ensure that it is transparent and verifiable. This case has made it very clear that something goes wrong on two sides: the instructions cannot be imposed and it is not verifiable whether it has led to the right result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u55	I agree with Mrs Van Engelshoven. The law is actually set up in a protective manner and ensures that the process is not made transparent for inspection, for example. So if there's a mistake in the line somewhere, it's passed up. There will be no way to correct it. In fact, mayors are not allowed to say: let me see all these things again and let me correct them again. That's the way it's decorated now, but you could of course do it differently. That was actually my introduction, Mr President, but many of the questions I have to answer have been raised in the meantime in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u56	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u57	I would have liked to explain the difference between the margin of error indicated by the Election Council and the Stichting Politische Academie, but I have already done so. Now I'm going through the specific questions very quickly. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked on the basis of which I have prohibited the use of the OSV. That was actually Mrs Van Engelshoven's question. It is not a legal prohibition, so I understood myself then with the Election Council, which I remember, and asked whether it agreed with me that it would be undesirable to take the risk of a hack and that it would be wise for that reason if I gave the instruction that the transfer of the addition should be done manually. That was agreed with me. I then made that decision. The municipalities have also complied with it. So it all happens in coordination and consultation. That's different from strictly enforcing the law. Will the Election Council have enough time to request all the documents of the congregations? Yes, it is my intention to give that power to the Election Council by amending the law. By the way, if it is transparent then of course also to the other, because at the moment the Election Council has no powers other than other organisations in relation to that inspection. How do I check whether the software meets the requirements? These requirements mean that the central polling office itself will check whether the requirements are met. The central polling office, that is the Election Board, must have that checked by an independent party and publish the outcome. I'll check to see if that happens. Can the Minister arrange for additional supervision of the way in which the polling office and the municipality carry out the checks? It's gonna take a law change. But I have already indicated in the letter that I can still do some things within the current law, on five points that I mentioned in the letter. What seems to me to be specifically possible without any legislative amendment is to include a statement in the relevant models that the responsible body, for example the mayor, has to sign, and in which he or she declares that all control steps have actually been carried out. You can say that this is a formality, but it means that a signature must be signed by the responsible body that followed the instructions, applied the four-eyed principle, and had it introduced independently. I hope that when this threshold is built in and someone has to check it, it can lead someone to think: is it actually so; let me ask you again. We can do that without changing the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u58	Have you now dealt with all of Mrs Bruins Slot's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u59	No, I got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u60	Then I would suggest that you finish it before she interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u61	Then there is Mrs Bruins Slot's question which the municipality of Den Bosch has specifically looked at in the research. I have no information other than that contained in the report that I reviewed from Den Bosch last night. I had not limited Den Bosch in the scope of the investigation, but it was apparently interpreted in such a way that the results of Bergeijk and Boxmeer were specifically examined. Those were Mrs Bruins Slot's questions, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u62	The minister's talking about him checking the software. But he's doing that right now, the Supporting Software Elections. So what exactly is he going to do, preventing us from getting into the same situation again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u63	I will now, of course, have more time than the last time I spoke to the municipalities about the point that when they say 'let us use the OSV software', they are also responsible for their ability to handle the software standalone properly. There should also be no misunderstanding about the fact that when that process is apparently interrupted, all the information entered has been lost. Mr Bosma has already asked for this. That is the responsibility of the municipalities themselves. If they say they can use this software for this, they must also know what the clamps and clamps are when they are used. Of course, I have more time to talk to them about this. Moreover, I would add that the relevance of adding up at municipal level stops in the municipal elections, which in itself does not alter the above. It is precisely the step in which a mistake has now been made, which will not be discussed at the main polling office in 2018, because the result will then be finally established at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u64	But of course municipalities not only use the Supporting Software Elections. Some municipalities use other software. The Minister has already included in the Decision certain requirements to be met by this software. What is he going to do more or else with regard to the current requirements to better shape that supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u65	That's two different things. I cannot, strictly speaking, shape supervision within the current legal framework, because I do not have the authority to do so. I can talk to municipalities so that they realize in good time that they have to handle the software they want to use themselves correctly and so that there can be no misunderstandings about what happens when the computer fails. The system must withstand the combination of human errors and machine errors. Apparently it wasn't in this case. Mrs Van Engelshoven asks if municipalities break the law by publishing. In my opinion, that is not the case. The municipalities have the practice of publishing results at all levels. That is not new, but for the future we must remove all doubts about this. In the event of a legislative amendment, we must ensure that the minutes are and remain accessible. One can now go to the town hall in those eight days to gain access there, but that is not entirely of this time anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u66	That's crazy. The minister says that municipalities that publish the results per polling office on the Internet do not act in violation of the law, while the Political Academy, for example, was not allowed to make photocopies of the results because this would be contrary to the law. That's a problem you have when the results are on the Internet, so it can't be both true. I really like the fact that municipalities publish the results and I think we should go there too, but here in the Chamber, too, the minutes are locked up. Members of parliament can see them, but no one else can. There is therefore great uncertainty as to whether or not this is contrary to the law, but it cannot be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u67	I would not like to say here that in this case municipalities are doing something that is against the law. Where they publish the results, I gave the response I just gave. This is without prejudice to the law stating that access is to be granted for those eight days. Municipalities have rightly interpreted this in such a way that those who have access to it cannot take photos of it all very quickly and can put it on the Internet. In that case, the concept of "inspection" is taken too far. So could it be both true? I think so. Municipalities can in themselves say that they mean by inspection that someone may not record and publish everything, because otherwise it is no longer access, but still reserve the right to publish, for example, the addition. A number of municipalities have indeed done so. However, I agree with Mrs van Engelshoven's question: this should simply be made transparent by law. Then we will be done with all these discussions. Mrs Van Engelshoven also asks whether there are any consequences at the candidate level. I do not want to go beyond the information that I have shared, completely transparently, with the Chamber. I understand from the Election Board that it has no reason to conclude that the mistakes made at the candidate level have an impact on the composition of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u68	But that is what the Election Board says on the basis of the results of the municipalities and not on the basis of the results of the polling stations. We have seen from the research of the Political Academy that there can be quite a difference. In my view, therefore, we cannot rule out the possibility that other Members of Parliament could have been present if the results were taken into account at polling stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u69	By now confirming that I can't rule that out, I'm threatening to generate news again, which I don't want to. For the Election Council, the experts on whom I have to base myself, there is no reason to infer from the difference in margin of error between the Election Council and the Political Academy, which saves a few thousand votes, that there is reason to question the human composition of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u70	No, but we're not sure. For the third time this evening: that would be a new argument for putting all the results at polling station directly on the Internet, but we have already drawn that conclusion a little more often this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u71	I agree. I would add, however, that that conclusion in our rule of law must be accepted by the Lower House and then by the Upper House, because that requires legislative change. I admit that we are going to do our best and I welcome the support for that intention. We talked about the legal status of the circulars. I believe that I have answered Mrs van Engelshoven's questions. Ms Özütok asked if I could make an effort to introduce the changes for voters abroad before the European Parliament elections in 2019. We shall return to that subject. However, I do intend to amend the law before the elections to the European Parliament in 2019. What can I do to improve enforcement by the municipalities? The answer is actually in what we discussed earlier: by making everything public. Surely that's the best way to make sure there's no doubt about it. Why do I not allow the amendment on 100% accessibility to enter into force? I mentioned in my evaluation that accessibility has increased enormously. That's a big compliment to the municipalities. I had to answer for it a few years ago because only a quarter of the polling stations complied with it. That is 88% now, so a lot of progress has been made. My impression is that the rest will entail a great deal of effort and also the necessary costs. Because those execution sequences are there, including the finances, I can't do that last bit in missionary status anymore. I can assure you that I will make all the preparations for this. Mr Öztürk asked if I could arrange for representatives of political parties to be present at the census. The Tickets Act makes it possible for voters to be present at the count anyway. So they can also be people who are members of a political party. I do not see a role for myself to actively enter into this, but I hereby confirm that they are allowed to do so. I do not want to draw the supervisory process in the spirit of party politics either. But once again, the answer to the question is affirmative: yes, that is allowed now. I agree that the whole process is based on trust. That is also the thrust of the debate we are now having. Mr Van Raak asked if there were fewer polling stations. We do not have exact figures on the number of polling stations in this year's Lower Parliament elections. Political Academy talks about over 9.350 polling stations. In 2012 there were 9,500. That would indeed indicate a slight reduction in the number. The investigation report indicated that the pressure on polling stations was high. In this context, I would like to say to Mr Van Raak that I will understand with the municipalities that it really belongs to the core task of the municipalities and that it should also be financed from the Municipal Fund. It is in the basic financing that we are well equipped to carry out this important task in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u72	What questions did you have from Mr Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u73	That was the question about the number of polling stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u74	I hope that you, Mr President, and the Minister will forgive me if I ask the Minister to go back to the previous point, about the representatives of political parties who may be present at the census. I would like to hear specifically from the Minister that he does not want representatives of different parties to say that they can be permanently involved in the next election because of what the Minister has just said. So we should not create an extra figure of style for political observers. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u75	Yes, I believe that Mr Koopmans is saying the same thing as I am saying, namely that the Tickets Act makes it possible for voters to be present at the count. The Election Act does not state that they should not be a member of a political party, or that they should not have a hat on the political party to which they are a member. But it is not organised in any way that people are there on behalf of a political party, and I would not like to enter into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u76	The minister's talking about a "cap." It'll be some kind of metaphorical and transferable use of the word. However, I am sure the Minister will forgive me if I say again that, of course, people are not supposed to be in polling stations with a political party cap on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u77	Voters can be present at the count. That is what the Tickets Act says, and I really want to limit myself to that. Other than that, there's no intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u78	I'd like to know why that's so weird. Anyone in the Netherlands can run for office. There are people who are members of a political party. Members of a polling station are usually also members of a political party. So I don't understand the fear of the VVD about this, and I don't understand what the Minister thinks about this either. As there is little confidence at the moment, I have proposed, in an attempt to rebuild that confidence, to ensure that members of political parties are present at the census. They're just citizens and voters, so what's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u79	I refer to my previous reply. Voters can be present at counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u80	It's so hard to do about this. Those members of political parties are being pretended to be separate people, or that it would be weird. The spokesperson of the VVD is coming here now with an anxiety question. He says, "Oh, dear, the members of political parties are coming with me, how can that be?" No, members of political parties are just citizens of this country. Because the Ministry and a number of municipalities are not doing their job well, members of political parties end up watching how they do it. Citizens also have the task of monitoring. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u81	It's not about surveillance, it's about attendance at the count. Citizens have the right to be present at that census, according to the Election Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u82	Exactly. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u83	So I'm not getting an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u84	The Minister continued to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u85	Mr Van Raak asked a good question. Or, well, it's not up to me to judge that. Mr Van Raak asked a question about these voting apps. Let me say that I am pleased to have the opportunity to explain this here. Indeed, I have had a discussion with a number of municipalities about the use of apps to assess citizens' views. It is not intended to use those apps to vote in elections. However, something else is that municipalities do have a voting app, that's what they call it, but it's a polling app, for example, to see if the voting pass is valid. An app can of course be used for this application, but an app cannot be used as a front portal for voting. If it were to be used in this way, I would agree with Mr Van Raak. We have discussed this on a number of occasions. Right now, it's not safe to do that. We should not therefore give the impression that we are doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u86	Now, at last week's conference in Goes, the VNG adopted a motion stating that they are willing to do so. It seems impossible to me that when the Lower House and the Cabinet say that something is not safe, the VNG and the municipalities say: yes, but we think it is safe and we are doing it anyway. So has the Minister had any contact with the VNG on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u87	I was in Goes. The UNG Congress is always a highlight of the year for the Minister of the Interior. I hadn't gotten this motion yet. I shall therefore have to be briefed on its precise scope. But let there be no doubt that in the Tickets Act there is a detailed regulation of the way in which the vote is taken. Using a mobile device to vote should always be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u89	The spokesperson of the DENK Group asked whether the number of invalid votes had increased. That number has indeed increased slightly. In 2012, 0.22% of the votes were invalid. Now 0.3% of the votes were invalid. There's actually two sides to that. Yeah, there's been a slight increase. But 0.3% is not very much either. Of 300 people, 1 has cast an invalid vote. What can we do about it? Even better guidance and even better information. Of course, the complexity of the ballot has also increased, given the number of new parties. I can't control that. In other words, there should be fewer parties. But I say again, the Minister of the Interior has not dealt with this. In other words, we should think about redesigning the ballot. I have just given examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u90	You can look for it from the political parties or the number of political parties, but you can also look for it from the fact that 18% of the members of the polls have not had training. So one in five about doesn't quite know what to do. I think we should look at ourselves, look at the municipalities and also look at the ministry. How can it be that one in five members of the polls have not had training when they control the citizens' right to vote? The Minister is shifting too much towards political parties. He also needs to look internally and address municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u91	I personally agree with Mr Öztürk that the people of the polling station should be well trained. I do not want to say one-on-one that would mean that no more invalid votes would be cast. In the end, you are not a member of a polling station. Suppose someone thinks, "I like two people, so I'm gonna cross them both." That's a misunderstanding. That would render the vote invalid. That is not a one-on-one link to the level of education of the people who work in the polling station. This is also partly in the information to the electorate, for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can also carry out information campaigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u92	The Minister was just talking about making the ballot easier. He just waved the simplified ballot as applied to voters abroad. Does the Minister also intend to try again in this Chamber if we cannot experiment with the simpler ballot? This would make the work of many people in the polling stations considerably easier and perhaps also lead to fewer errors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u93	I would like to do it, but I can't escape the observation that it's a legislative change that I proposed here and which didn't make it here at the time. Now the Chamber has been re-elected, but I think it could be controversial in the eyes of the Chamber. I can only say that I will prepare it. But I think it is really up to a new cabinet to try again to find support for that ballot in the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u94	If no one contradicts me, I would like to invite the Minister to submit it in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u95	Then I will at least make sure that it is in the transfer file, so that it arrives on the spot in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u96	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u97	Yeah, I'm going fast. I have discussed Mr Van Raak's questions. I have already responded to Mr Bosma in the general section, including the concerns about the Russian hacking. He asked if the Election Council has access to everything. That is also what Mr Bishop of the SGP asked. No, it's not. The Election Council must now have nothing more or less than others. Whatever the Election Board can get on data, it's in the Elections Act. During the Lower House elections, the Election Council receives only the minutes of the main polling offices. So that is indeed a restriction as laid down in the current law. Mr Bishop asked about the difference between the Election Council and the Political Academy when it comes to the source of the different assessment of errors. He tipped off that the law says that access only applies to judicial investigations. Mr Bishop advocated electronic voting. That plea is noted. During this period, I have made a great effort to do a great deal about it. I have set up the Van Beek Committee for this and asked the committee for a new opinion. Then it turned out that electronic voting could be done, but in the polling station, and that there was also a budgetary consequence. This has led to the fact that, at that time, they said that this was also at the time of the great decentralisations, including their financial consequences: let this cup ignore us for a moment. But that discussion is not closed. I certainly do not exclude that in the next period, in particular, electronic voting will continue in the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u98	To avoid misunderstandings: I made a plea for or electronic voting, if safe, or for the electronic counting of votes. I appreciate the effort you've made. Unfortunately, that attempt was fired by a majority in the Chamber. But in the meantime, the Chamber has changed its composition. What I have already mentioned: it may well be that the missionary period will last for a while, and it would be a pity if we did not use that time to at least explore whether one of the two options has sufficient political support. I therefore call for it not only to be included in the transfer file, but also to see whether active steps can be taken. You are already meeting a very broad consensus here when it comes to taking steps. I'd be happy to invite you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u99	Thank you. It's a hot bath, this room! I'm starting to worry about the length of the missionary period. It is about the legislative process, which I can give an impetus to, but something needs to be done in consultation. You can assume that in the months involved, a conclusion is reached elsewhere on this square kilometre. Anyway, I'm gonna try to do what I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u100	Mr Van Raak does not need a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u101	I'd still like to get through this. Very often the Minister comes up with a bill, after which the Chamber says it does not need it. But now we see the opposite: the Chamber is asking for legislation and the Minister says: let's wait a little longer. In my view, the Minister can see the contributions from the Chamber as an appeal for legislation. As far as the matters referred to here by spokesmen are concerned, the same applies to the ballot paper, as far as I am concerned, the government can simply come up with legislation, because the Chamber is not outgoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u102	This is very tempting, but in the end, although we are outgoing, we are still a political cabinet based on a coalition. Of the coalition parties, only one party is present in this debate. Again, in the previous composition of this Chamber, his party was against that new banknote. That's why I don't feel the space to just admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u103	This debate is about counting the votes and the problems involved. We agreed this afternoon that we would soon have another debate in which we would discuss the other modalities of the elections. Hopefully the ballot will also be discussed. However, I do think that there is scope to talk about amending the laws and regulations on counting the votes now. If there is a second deadline, we can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u104	I'll wait and see. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked me what I'm going to do about the software review. The requirements in the Kieswet are not me, but the central polling office has to prove that the software meets the requirements. The Election Board is not always the central polling office; in municipal elections that is the municipality. I'm going to check that the municipalities can prove that the software meets the requirements. That's just a finer thing than I'm gonna do it myself: I'm gonna ask the municipalities to prove that their software meets those requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u105	Is there a need for a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u106	I need a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u107	We're gonna start on the second term from the side of the Chamber. I call Mrs Bruins Slot, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u108	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. He is going to consult a lot with the VNG and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, but I assume that he will also consult with the Election Council on these issues very much and that he will inform us as a Second Chamber as well. Hopefully, he will soon. I notice that Bergeijk and Boxmeer have been viewed, but not Meierijstad. Why not? Almost 400 votes weren't taken there. So I think it's a remarkable choice by Den Bosch that that wasn't done. I think I heard a commitment from the Minister on the legal basis for the Election Board to collect the minutes. I'm not quite sure about that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Election Board plays an important role in the electoral process and should therefore, as far as possible, have powers to fulfil this role properly;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Election Board with a legal basis in the Election Act to enable the collection of the minutes of the election results, both analogue and digital, at the polling stations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u109	The debate also shows that the Supporting Software Elections is really a kind of benchmark to prevent another domino reaction, a accumulation of errors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u110	Do you have another motion? I'd file it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u111	That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that support Software Elections (OSV) have been used in the elections in the Netherlands since 2007;]] [[having noted that in the run-up to the 2017 Dutch Parliamentary Elections, there has been a debate on the use of OSV;]] [[Whereas it is important to use reliable and secure (electronic) software in the preparation of the minutes;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Election Board, on the basis of everyone's expertise, to consider whether the OSV is sufficiently reliable and safe for the longer term or whether alternatives need to be developed, and to inform the Court of Auditors about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Van Engelshoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u112	Mr. Chairman. The confidence in the outcome of the elections is actually the basis of confidence in our democracy. The old thought behind the Kieswet is: if you just make sure that the result from a given moment is not disputed, that confidence is there. It is precisely at this time that it is true: if you make something debatable and if you give it full disclosure, that creates confidence for a lot of people. I think it is a great gain from this debate, which I think has been widely established that we want to make that change in the Tickets Act as soon as possible. I would like to encourage the Minister, also in view of what his colleagues have said, to start working on these changes as soon as possible. As far as public access is concerned, I would like to return to the issue of public access to the results of the polls by local authorities. The minister just said he didn't want to say here that the municipalities are doing this now. With him I am very pleased that they are doing so, but this is at odds with the law. In the Newsletter of 9 March 2017 to the municipalities, it is stated that the N10 minutes are, in my opinion, that the results at polling station level have a different regime than the WOB regime and that they are therefore not covered by the WOB, precisely because they must be destroyed and therefore should not be widely known. I would advise the Minister to read that passage again, because this passage must give municipalities a great deal of uncertainty: what is true now and what is acting according to the law? I do not think we need to look at how this has been done in the past, but I urge the Minister to clarify this matter as quickly as possible, so that at least in next year's municipal elections, no one can doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u113	Mr. Chairman. I have indeed noticed that I have been somewhat broader in my contribution on the various subjects. The Minister heard that very well and picked it up. He has also made a number of commitments. I would like to thank the Minister very much for that. We are going to talk about the other issues in a debate after the summer. What we think is very important is that this issue really needs a clear direction. We can't leave it to chance anymore. As far as my group is concerned, we are going to go into the matter once more in that debate, with all the relevant information and all the areas involved. I had prepared a motion, but I'll file it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u114	Mr. Chairman. Citizens' confidence in the Election Act and in the elections has been damaged. We must try to rectify this as much as possible. That is why we have four motions to support that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the voices of almost 9,000 people have been handled carelessly;]] [[considers that the monitoring of elections should therefore be increased;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether an observation system consisting of members of electoral parties can be a feasible and meaningful instrument for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of invalid votes has increased by 0.08%, the cause of which is not the increase in the total number of votes cast;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how this increase could take place;]] [[calls on the Government also to consider what measures it can take to prevent the issuing of an invalid vote and to ensure that there is sufficient clarity among members of the polling bureau as to when votes are invalid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 18% of the members of the polling bureau did not receive training for their appointment;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to ensure that each member of the polling bureau undergoes training for his or her appointment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-65]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-66]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u115	Now I'm filing the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many municipalities do not publish results of elections at all on their websites or do not publish results at polling and/or candidate level;]] [[calls on the Government to urge municipalities to publish results of elections at all relevant levels and to consider whether the Ministry can support them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u116	Mr. Chairman. The Election Board determines the outcome, but cannot control the level of polling stations. It's been going on for a long time. This means that there has always been a lot of uncertainty in all this time. And it still is. We can't really 100% check that the results are true. What we have seen this year is that thousands, thousands of mistakes have been made. During the debate, Members of Parliament indicated that action should now be taken. The Minister himself has already said that a number of things should be regulated by law. I call on the Minister to do so. Just do it! I also call on the Minister to consult with municipalities. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many mistakes were made in the elections to the House of Representatives in March 2017 when counting the votes;]] [[Considers that errors in counting votes in the 2018 Council elections should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the VNG, to ensure that the elections to the municipal council of March 2018 include sufficient voting offices in each municipality, sufficient training of employees of polling stations and always carrying out the required checks when counting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u117	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. A question has remained, and that is the question of the questions that have been asked by me and others, namely: has everything been settled in the forthcoming municipal elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u118	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. In view of the questions raised by Mr Martin Bosma, therefore, with a view to the preparation of the municipal elections, I would ask the Minister, despite his obvious missionary status, if he could send us a letter in the near future containing concrete proposals for amending the laws and regulations so that we can have even more confidence in the forthcoming municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u119	The Minister can answer directly and respond to the motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u120	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked why Meierijstad is not also involved in the investigation. That's the question I'll put when I talk to Den Bosch. In reply to Mr Koopmans, I will undertake to deliver a letter before the end of next week. If I can, I will try to answer that specific question in that letter. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked for commitments in the area of starting the legislative process. If it is all right with her, I will come back to it in the light of Mr Koopmans' question, but the answer is affirmative. Mrs Bruins Slot has tabled two motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 63 actually asks the government to change the law. I leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber, if I may read the motion in such a way that I undertake to initiate that process, which I will promise to do in a moment. Of course, I can't go any further. On the motion by Mrs Bruins Slot on item No. 64 who asks the government to check whether the OSV is sufficiently reliable for the longer term, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Van Engelshoven encouraged me to start the process. Thank you for that encouragement. She called on me to clarify again what exactly should and should not be published by the municipalities on the website. That's what I'm telling you. I will, because I admit that there is a grey area between not allowing what was available to the public and providing information about it on its own initiative. So that needs to be clarified. Mr Öztürk has tabled four motions. His motion in part No. 65 calls on the government to examine whether an observation system consisting of members of political parties can be used as an instrument. I strongly advise against this motion. The electorate may be present in the process of counting but in their capacity as citizens; political parties should stay far from the whole electoral and counting process. This is actually a matter of course in our democracy. The motion in part No. I leave Mr Öztürk to the Court's judgement. The same applies to his motion in part No. 67. Whether all this is necessary should be judged by the Chamber itself. So I'm gonna leave it in the middle a little bit, because I've already promised some of those things. In any case, it would not be a problem if these motions were adopted. That is true of the motion in part No. 68, because I am being asked to insist on something that is not currently permitted under the law. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. At the Van Raak/Browns-movement Slot to piece No. 69 I am free to say that it expresses the view that many mistakes have been made in counting the votes. I want to be precisely in that, because, as far as we know, the mistakes have been made in adding up the votes; that is the impression now. That makes for the people who are close to it just out anyway. I should like to comment on this motion for a resolution before the Chamber. In the operative part, I am called upon to make an effort, which I consider to be a support for policy. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mr Bosma asked the question: will everything be arranged for the municipal elections? He can't ask me to do that, because I can't do what legislation requires until March. All this must be done through the Council of State, the Lower House and the Upper House. I can't escape that. For my part, I will make every effort to do so, but I cannot promise that everything will be settled by then. I have, however, made a comment: the level at which it has now partly gone wrong was the level above that of the municipal determination of the result. At least that will not be the case in the municipal elections next spring, so that is the good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u121	I would like to thank the Minister for his appreciation of the 'judgement chamber' of the motions on the documents Nos. 66 and 67. On the motion in part No. 68 he has said that this request cannot be made by law, but it does not seem to me to be. All we ask in that motion is that municipalities publish the results on a website. That's already happening for 52%. Half the municipalities aren't working yet. I ask the Minister to make sure that they do. So I don't understand why it couldn't be legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u122	I think the operative part is too vague: to publish results of elections at all relevant levels. Someone will then have to determine what those relevant levels are. Is that the level of the police report, too? I think that goes too far. I'm just being kept to the Tickets Act. It clearly states what information should be made public by the municipalities. So I'm deceiving the motion, but otherwise it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u123	I am trying to change the motion, so that the ministers are urged to do so by the municipalities that do not publish this data. I will change a few words, which will allow the Minister the opportunity to leave the motion to the House's judgement, but I will do so later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u124	Mr Koopmans asked me if I could sort out the good intentions and share them in a letter with the Chamber. I feel so encouraged, I feel free to do so. It seems practical to me to do so before the end of next week. Then I can just discuss the subject in the Council of Ministers next Friday, because it is not a small beer. A week later, the letter could be in the Chamber. I'll admit that letter will be there by the end of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u125	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-22.u126	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. That's what the Chamber asked for in the arrangement, so that's what we're gonna do. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery, the messengers, the clerks, everyone who has followed this debate.
