ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	I refer to the report on general consultation of the EU Defence Council this afternoon. As a speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP. You have a maximum of two minutes' speaking time, including the submission of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes I think I'm in a parallel universe. We have just had a debate on European defence policy, PESCO, permanent structured cooperation. Linked to this is a European Defence Fund, which could amount to EUR 40 billion for the defence industry, with a lot of questions. Apart from how you're politically in this, there are a lot of unanswered questions. In fact, we do not know the decision, the notification that this Minister and the Foreign Minister will be signing next week on behalf of the Netherlands. If you don't know what it will yield, if you don't know what the consequences will be for the Netherlands, if you don't know what the budget will be and if you can't explain what we're actually doing, then I think you're doing wrong. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Union Foreign Affairs Council will decide on a joint notification on 13 November to participate in PESCO, the permanent structured cooperation;]] [[considers that many relevant aspects of the development of PESCO are unclear;]] [[considers that many financial and political consequences of PESCO are still unclear;]] [[calls on the Government not to notify PESCO at present,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-28-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. When we talk here about acceptance, about democracy, about ensuring support for your decision-making, about making choices to make billions of dollars to the defence industry or to care, and when Europe and this Parliament, in a majority, continue to make this kind of important decisions, I think it is digging your own grave. This undermines all support and is therefore also undesirable. That is why I call on my colleagues to think, to get answers together first to all the questions we have and then to have the debate with all the facts above the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. The Minister cannot go directly to appreciation because she is waiting for the motion. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	I give the floor to the Minister to appreciate the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I had to read the text of the motion. I'd like to say a few things. I do not share the way in which Mrs Karabulut summarizes the AO of just now. I indicated that PESCO, permanent cooperation at European level, is calling for a political decision on Monday, 13-11, and that the European Defence Fund is a proposal for a regulation. Mrs Karabulut confuses these two things. There is a proposal for a regulation on an industrial development programme 2019-2020, which includes 500 million. A BNC sheet has been sent to the Chamber. Decision-making in the Council on that programme is scheduled for December. The negotiations in Brussels are still going on, as I indicated in the AO report and the European Parliament is dealing with this next year. I think Mrs Karabulut is confusing these two things, PESCO and EDF. PESCO and EDF are not the same. I will say it once more, perhaps aboundingly: I find it annoying that it is being confused, because I think that cooperation really will take us further. This is a really big step forward, especially in the cooperation between NATO and the EU. I have just looked at the text of the Karabulut motion, in part No. 165. I believe that the financial consequences of PESCO are not at all unclear, because I have outlined them and I have also indicated that they are within the framework. I would therefore advise against the motion because it does not do justice to what is happening on Monday in the field of PESCO. In the context of EDF, there is still a whole procedure, which I have outlined to you once again. Those two things are really different things, so I wouldn't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you. That leads to a question, or a remark, from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	I'm not confusing anything. The motion concerns PESCO: permanent structured cooperation, i.e. a further European defence policy. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the purpose of this? Why should politics agree when it's all just a bit of a continuous story and fun working together? What's the purpose of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	The aim of the cooperation is that we have talked about it extensively and that we are better prepared with each other for threats on our continent and that we can better respond to what is happening. The whole general consultation was just about that being important. One of the projects submitted by the Netherlands for PESCO is that we can work in a Schengen region and move military equipment and personnel more easily to meet the threats that are complex and difficult. I believe that there is overall support for this, as I have indicated to you. I'm talking about threats that are complicated and difficult. That's why we do things like this. I also indicated in the consultation that US Minister Mattis said this morning in the Northern Group in Helsinki that it is extremely important and that, precisely in the context of EU-NATO coordination, we can do and arrange these things with each other. So we are actually doing this for the defence of the values we stand for here, for the freedom we have here, for the freedom of our country and for the freedom of the other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	The Minister must be honest. "Peace and security" was indeed once the start of the European project, but what is happening here and what is attached to it is not that we are going to work together a little more. We would not even need such a PESCO and such a decision. In fact, she cannot even give us the information about the projects that the Minister appoints. That is the procedural aspect. I find it difficult in a democracy that I have to decide on something without knowing what lies behind it. At the same time, it is true that the military industry, the military-industrial complex, will be subsidised. That's definitely the plan behind this, so you can buy in together. Then the Minister says that this also benefits us. Okay, let's see that. But she can't show it. So it's not just an innocent political statement. It is a step towards a European army. That can be done, and the Minister must not conceal it. If she says that all of this is happening openly and that it is innocent, I would first like to see all the questions answered and all the underlying documents before the Minister brings in something on behalf of our country that we do not even have all the knowledge about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u11	You will understand that I do not share Mrs Karabulut's summary. I'm actually throwing it far from me. I have just stated explicitly in general consultation that there is no European army, that we have absolute self-determination and that this is about projects that we ourselves participate in. In doing so, I have outlined the precise procedure for making it clear how it is going. So I totally disagree. I also regret that the SP does not want to share the cooperation which is important for the values in the Netherlands and in Europe. Mrs Karabulut really gives a completely wrong picture of what I have put forward in the AA. It would be nice if we shared the common values at least. I think the information I have provided is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. I would suggest that we do not go back to the debate you have just had. If you wish to make a new point very briefly, you will have the opportunity to do so, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u13	I have a brief response to the Minister. We are in favour of European cooperation. I see only the fact that a military industrial complex is being financed and I see that there is further militarisation for Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u14	You just made this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u15	...which will not make our citizens safer. So I am far from saying that we would not be in favour of cooperation. That's different from the weapons industry with 40 billion bacon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u16	I would like to respond to that, because that amount of EUR 40 billion is really not on the table. I explained that, too. That misunderstanding must not be allowed to continue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mrs Belhaj still needs a brief comment or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u18	I listened very carefully to the SP. The SP is fully within its right to submit this motion. But I would like the Minister to confirm the following, as we have just discussed. This is not suddenly something new or something that the Netherlands is being messed with. It has been under discussion since 2007, when the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted, which provided the opportunity for this European defence cooperation in Article 46. In those years, there has been a lot of talk here and in committee about what it would mean. The cabinet checked and questioned. Now we have arrived at the stage where the Netherlands agrees to this European defence cooperation. From the mouth of a D66 man, what I am about to say is special: it is not a matter of talking about a European army, but we do choose to work efficiently with each other. My question to the Minister is whether she might agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u19	I thought this was a very nice summary of the general consultation and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. I thank the Minister for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u21	The vote on the motion submitted to this VAO will take place on Thursday 14 November.
