ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. An article in NRC Handelsblad yesterday gives an extremely worrying picture of the situation of Eritrean women in the Netherlands. Eritrean women in asylum care seem vulnerable to sexual abuse and trafficking in human beings. I am talking about strange visitors to the shelters, young women who are picked up at the asylum site by unknown men and women who suddenly have an expensive smartphone that they cannot pay for their allowance. They're extremely disturbing signals. Eritrea has one of the most repressive regimes in the world. They are people who have fled their own country to seek protection in the Netherlands. Then here, in a place where they should be safe, they are exposed to this kind of practice. That's really horrible. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if he recognizes the problems. I would also like to know what resources the COA has to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of women in asylum-seekers' centres. Are the signals being taken seriously enough? What additional measures can the Secretary of State take to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation in asylum seekers' centres?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Grothuizen rightly refers to a worrying picture. I would like to outline this in the timeline so that we do not get the idea that we now need to take additional measures as a result of the article. Indeed, the COA has already used the investigation that was completed in August 2016 for improvement measures. Even before that, COA was alert to signals. A number of times, unfortunately, we have seen incidents where, even under the precautionary principle, we have taken rather drastic measures by saying: underage Eritrean girls are not going there and there for the time being, until we have clarified what is going on. The COA has given me the opportunity to confirm that they recognise and are alert to these worrying signals, but that it is not a representative picture of all Eritreans living in asylum seekers' centres. The COA also actively cooperated with the study. I think the anecdotes, the stories and the relics that are in there are also from COA employees. The aim of the study is to gain a better insight into how to promote the well-being of Eritrean people. It is not the most open group, for example in terms of communication and what goes wrong in that group. The COA has already taken a number of measures for the publication of the study. For example, expert meetings have been held with representatives from all kinds of areas, such as science, police, Nidos, Refugee Work, OM, the rapporteur Human Trafficking and people with specific expertise on sexual violence against girls. The purpose of this is to increase knowledge and to know which signals to look for. A manual on the Eritrean target group has been drawn up for staff on azc's within the COA. Security liaisons have also been provided with the necessary information on specific problems identified by the Eritrean residents of asylum seekers' centres. Resilience training for the residents themselves has also been intensified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and the list of measures taken. As the Secretary of State himself said, it is not about the most open group. Another important point that emerges from the research is the lack of integration of Eritreans. The research actually gives a rather deceptive picture. A lot of people hardly seem to be working on their future. Often they only master their own language. Eritreans seem to be suspicious of each other. People are hardly self-reliant. A number of COA employees even say that there is a danger of social isolation. COA employees in the document clearly wonder if these people are going to be okay if they leave the shelter. D66 has long argued for good integration and wants people to learn one Dutch from day one, precisely to avoid these kinds of problems. What is the COA doing right now to ensure that these people start integrating as soon as possible? Can the Secretary of State also indicate what additional measures he may take to address this problem as early as possible so that we can prevent the social isolation of young Eritrean women, and of course not just women, and thus promote their self-reliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Firstly, more specifically on integration and language. Of course, we have volunteers who guide asylum seekers in learning basic Dutch vocabulary. That goes in a classical way in almost all locations. Furthermore, asylum seekers can also use the free digital method for level NT2 with the assistance of those volunteers. Once one has a permit, which is often the case with Eritrean asylum seekers and also relatively quickly, one can participate in pre-integration, so even before the municipal integration is done. This includes 121 hours of Dutch language lessons, taught by professional language teachers at NT2 level. We have also increased the language lesson for promising asylum seekers. In the November letter, we also announced that we would draw this out of the pre-accession process. The COA has started NT2 lessons for the target group at all active pol-locations, including Eritreans. In addition, three Ministries of Foreign Affairs, V and J and Social Affairs have worked together to gain insight into the complex problem of the Eritrean community in the Netherlands. That research was published on 15 December under the title Nothing is what it seems. It was also sent to your room. As a result, Social Affairs has also launched several pathways to improve the integration and participation of Eritreans in the Netherlands. That is indeed not a group in which, to put it mildly, it will go on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his response. I am indeed asking, in addition to his last remark and the measures he mentions, whether all the supply can actually be used by these people, precisely because of their specific problems. I am glad that I have heard him say that the precautionary principle is being respected. He even said that we're doing pretty drastic things. I'd like that. I therefore hope that CoA staff and other relevant bodies will also feel strengthened by the words of the Secretary of State to act decisively if something is not right. We absolutely do not want to see some kind of procedural embarrassment in this situation. We often talk about asylum and migration in this Chamber, so now again. We don't always agree. But I think we do agree that in our rule of law there must always be protection for vulnerable people by law.
