ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. May I first of all thank the scout on behalf of my party for the good work that has been done? I would also like to thank her for the proper presentation of the conversations, at least of the conversations in which I took part. The VVD Group agrees with the scout's conclusion and intends to table a motion as the largest party also on behalf of the parties intending to discuss further. I assume that's best done in second term. So I'm going to file that motion. That's it. If there are any questions, of course I'm available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Rutte on his excellent contribution. I've never heard him so strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	I thought so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	But I do have a question. What happened? How does it work at the VVD? We had an election five years ago. The VVD became the largest party and to everyone's surprise she not only started talking to the Labour Party, but also formed a cabinet. The VVD has now lost the election, but is still the largest party. She's gonna talk to GroenLinks now. Mr Rutte, which voter of the VVD would you like to do and why are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	There's been a round made by the scout. It has been established that the major parties present now prefer a majority cabinet. There is a possibility of four parties who, if they agree on a programme, would lead to a majority in both the Second and the First Chambers. That's this combination. I therefore think it would be wise to examine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	We know Mr Rutte as someone who, in the course of the past year, played a major role in various issues: 'pleasure' against Turks, a strong immigration policy and asylum, as stated in his election programme, could only be applied for outside the European Union. But what is my surprise? In her opinion to Mrs Schippers, there is no mention of immigration, no mention of asylum and no mention of terror. It does say something about the energy transition that is so important. I didn't know Mr Rutte could spell that word. What's going on? Looks like he's already half on his lap at GroenLinks. What happened to the sturdy Mark Rutte who went into the election with all the themes we don't see anymore, nothing at all? Energy transition is now the Netherlands' problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	Energy is with a "g" and not with "ch." I see it wrongly written on your paper from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's Mrs. Scout's paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	You have some notes on it and it's important to spell them out properly. I'll come back to your question. I have informed the scout, the intended informant, of the issues to be addressed in the next few years in relation to the VVD Group. I have not spoken about the issues which are absolutely clear that we need to pursue sensible policies. For example, I mentioned the issue of reducing the burden on the middle class. I have also spoken about the fact that this cabinet has taken sensible steps in the field of energy transition. We know that fossil fuels are finite and that there is warming, so it is wise to go further. I have put a number of emphasis on the policy that is already in place. It is clear that migration and asylum policy are very important for the VVD, but some sensible things are already happening on that point, so I have mainly talked about the issues that need to be highlighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	What Mr Rutte says here as leader of the VVD is not true. In his paper, summarised by Mrs Schippers, there are a number of points which constitute the most important task for the VVD for the forthcoming cabinet, including the energy transition. We have just had a commemoration of the problems of Islamic terrorism and immigration and asylum. Not a word about this! The VVD sits at the table with GroenLinks, a party that wants more asylum and open borders. GroenLinks will say that she is upset about terrorism, but she should be more opposed to it. Mr Rutte spoke in the campaign about the wrong type of populism. I didn't know what he meant, but now I know what he means. Do you know who the wrong kind of populists are, Madam President? People who have such a big mouth about all the themes, but then sit at the table with the party that propagates the opposite. Those are the wrong kind of populists! Mr Rutte, you are the captain of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	The wrong kind of populism is: pump up problems and when the balloon almost breaks, run away. That is what Mr Wilders likes to do, we know about him. He's character-proof in that, too. I have drawn attention to this in the campaign, and I will continue to do so in the Chamber from whatever role it is in the future. Again, in my conversation with the scout, I talked about those things, not things that are going well. I have spoken about what new accents need to be placed in the coming period, such as the issue of the middle class in the Netherlands, which has to a large extent felt the crisis and is now getting better, as far as the VVD is concerned in the coming years will have to experience that things are going better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	I actually like the short input from the VVD. It's very clear. I do have a question. The top five of the most important topics are the improvement of the labour market. That is a subject that is very important to me and that could affect a lot of people. I was at this confusing time this afternoon at lunch with the Prime Minister, in a different role. I heard the Prime Minister there sing the praises of the Dutch polder model. It was beautiful. I could very much endorse the words. You could almost hear the strings sound. That formation period is a bit of a black box. In order to prevent agreements from being made with what lives in society, I would like the confirmation or commitment, whatever you call it, of the leader of the largest group that will soon be sought for alignment or agreement with civil society, with the polder in this case. A new social agreement has been advocated by many in the campaign. I believe that this possibility is now also present. Please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	First for those who were not present this afternoon: it was a lunch with the President of Argentina, his wife, the Dutch King and Queen and a large delegation. Argentina is indeed very interested in the way in which we enter into a social dialogue in the Netherlands on issues such as wage formation, the labour market, dismissal law and so on. That was very helpful. I think we have a good tradition in the Netherlands, and Mr Asscher also knows that I am defending it. His question is going very far towards a goal. What is normal in a formation is that there is good consultation with all kinds of civil society organisations. I'll promote that on my part, but I'm not alone at the table. However, I believe that there is a good chance that civil society organisations will be involved in this formation. However, the question also contains the certainty that this is going to lead to a social agreement in this formation. That will, of course, depend on the discussions that are taking place. Of course, if it is up to the VVD, there is good contact with civil society organisations, on all kinds of issues that are at stake in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr Rutte says that my question goes to an objective. That seems to me to be the intention of a question and of a formation period. You finally want to go to a goal. I only ask because in the top three, just after nursing care and just before the energy transition, the labour market stands. I think that's right. People need more security, more permanent jobs. That should be one of the assignments for a new cabinet. I am not going to ask for a commitment to results that this social agreement should be reached. I'm asking for an effort commitment. I hear in Mr Rutte's words that he wants to take it on board. He's also looking for support. I understand that this is not possible within the boundaries of the formation, but the effort, appropriate to his statements this afternoon and other moments, I ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	I am defending the polder, because it has brought us a lot of good in the Netherlands: a very low number of strike days, great social rest. The social agreement we concluded in 2013 with this cabinet, the present outgoing cabinet, has reduced a significant degree of confidence in a serious economic crisis that we are able to reach difficult decisions in this country, although of course several parts of that agreement have been judged differently, but that is always the case. I can assure you that, as far as the VVD is concerned, I am not just sitting at the table, I will certainly try to promote discussions with relevant civil society organisations on all kinds of issues. In what form that should then be cast and in what construct that should lead to results, is really up to the formation. I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	I have every sympathy for that. Mr Rutte will perhaps discuss with the other parties what form these agreements should take. However, I very much appreciate the fact that Mr Rutte indicated that he would contact these civil society organisations during the formation. In any case, we are talking about the employers' and employees' organizations in this country as united in the Labour Foundation. If there is a willingness to do so, then at least it will be possible to conclude such a social agreement. This can help with the social chapter of the new coalition agreement. I wish Mr Rutte every success in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you very much. Perhaps it is good to mention a single difference in all consensus. When I raised this point in my discussions with the explorer, I was mainly concerned with the question of how we can find a good balance in the Netherlands and keep it in the labour market and how we, above all, ensure that entrepreneurship, which we need so much, including as a job creator for the future, remains sufficiently attractive. Fortunately, a lot of jobs are now being created, but we have to note that many entrepreneurs are currently very reluctant to create permanent jobs. That raises the question of how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	In preparation for this debate, I have briefly highlighted Mr Rutte's baptism. I read that as JOVD president, as a 22-year-old, he was quite visionary. At the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	He then told us that much more room had to be made for strict environmental policy. The JOVD, together with nine other political youth organisations, drew up a manifesto together with Jan Terlouw of D66 on 22 February. It calls on politicians here in The Hague to turn the climate into a number one topic. I sent a letter to Mr Rutte and other group chairmen last week requesting that this manifesto be taken as a guide in the formation. I have received an answer from many group chairmen, but not from Mr Rutte. So therefore: does Mr Rutte take the appeal of the JOVD and other youth organisations seriously and will the manifesto be the starting point for the formation negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr Zijlstra always stressed the importance of the JOVD's involvement in the decisions taken in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's what I'm saying in a general sense. Very specifically on this manifesto, I would like to say that I think we should implement the Paris Agreement. We have to stand for our appointments. That is what the present outgoing cabinet is working on, but the precise way forward will of course be part of the discussions that are about to take place within the framework of the information. We are, of course, happy to take note of all the sensible contributions made by society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	That sounds benevolent, but that is still very non-binding. In particular, given the fact that we are making policy that has a major impact on future generations, on our young people, who have now and masse called on The Hague to make a real number one priority of the climate, I would expect Mr Rutte to speak a somewhat firmer language on climate issues. All the more so since he is looking for a majority with green parties such as D66 and GroenLinks. So I would like to get a slightly clearer commitment from Mr Rutte that the climate will really be a top priority for the future cabinet in which the VVD might take place. I ask him to speak in the direction of the young people of those political organizations, who are probably all listening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	One of the points I mentioned in my conversation with the scout was the issue of energy transition. That is what it considers necessary in the finiteness of fossil fuels and the geopolitical vulnerability of the great dependence of Russia and the Middle East and, of course, in climate change. The present cabinet has expressed its support for the Paris Agreement. I have wholeheartedly supported that. I myself was at the start of the talks there on 30 November 2015. But as I said in reply to Mrs Thieme's first interruption, there are several roads that lead to Rome. The precise way in which this issue can be resolved will undoubtedly be part of the discussions which the parties intend to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	Madam President. I would also like to thank Mrs Schippers for her work as a scout. On 15 March, 10 million people took the trouble to cast their votes for a long time. The whole of the Netherlands seemed to go to the ballot box. The turnout was historically high. The VVD lost eight seats, but remains the largest party. The Party for Freedom won five seats and is now the second party of the Netherlands, followed by the CDA on number three. GroenLinks and D66 also won seats, the SP lost one, the Christian Union remained the same and the total PvdA group now fits in a van. That rash is crystal clear. The parties of more immigration and asylum, which had a majority in the previous House of Representatives, 76 seats; we have often had the experience that that majority is now lost, because millions of people also chose less immigration and less asylum on 15 March. So you'd think: what a party; we're going to settle the biggest problem in the Netherlands. The possibility of a cabinet with the winners, the three largest parties, VVD, PVV and CDA, together with parties such as 50PLUS, SGP and Forum for Democracy should at least be seriously investigated. That was my advice to the scout on behalf of my group. But unfortunately, how else does reality turn out? The VVD and the CDA refuse to negotiate with the second party of the Netherlands, while they now have the opportunity to settle those important issues. The PVV won't do it. I am willing to negotiate with everyone, but they voluntarily choose to go into business with GroenLinks and D66, the parties of the open borders and the sale-out of our country. They are not only doing a bad service to the more than 1.3 million PVV voters, but I am convinced of that. Anyone who thought that Mr Rutte would do his tough talk this time might come out again, just like in 2012. Those who voted at the time of the VVD were joined by the Labour Party and those who now voted for the VVD should look forward to the possible cooperation with the environmental hippies of GroenLinks and the D66 officials of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr Wilders spoke about not negotiating with him, including the CDA. This week it's been five years since we were at the Cat House. When that went wrong and Mr Wilders had left the Catshuis, I said at that time: I am not doing that anymore. I have said this for five years, and Mr Wilders knows it. So he can't be surprised. My question to him is: what has he done, knowing that that trust was gone? I have always done so over the past five years to ensure that that trust would come back, so that we could possibly work together after the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	I am glad that Mr Buma is asking me this question, because it will finally allow me to correct the misunderstanding that we would have ashamed of that confidence or that we would have run away from the Catshuis. The opposite is the case. Perhaps I could quote the right hand of the then CDA leader Verhagen, the Minister of Defence of that cabinet, Hans Hillen. Hans Hillen said in an interview at Café Weltschmerz on 9 February this year, that you can all read: "Unfortunately it went wrong after two years, but not because of the PVV, but because there was a budgetary problem. If the party that is furthest away from this problem then you cannot blame that party." Was signed: Hans Hillen. I remember negotiating under Rutte I in Maxime Verhagen's room in the State Department and Mr Hillen always came out of the elevator like a hare before and after the conversation. He's an influential CDA guy. So we didn't run away. On the contrary, in the depths of the crisis, we did not want to sign up for further tax increases, for re-packing pensions, for re-attacking the elderly. Those who didn't deliver and who actually ran away are those who didn't deliver the deal back then, namely less immigration. That's the CDA and the VVD. The question should therefore be: what have you done in recent years to restore my trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	I can tell you that. At the end of these negotiations, I contacted you. I didn't say that out loud earlier because I thought it was somewhat confidential, but you're asking me that now. I said at that time: I think it is necessary for us to speak together as a result of running away, because I want to know what moved you to walk away at the last minute. I said "you" then, but I'm saying "you" now. We had that conversation, and you explained it all to me. I won't tell you here, because that's up to you, but you know what the truth is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	I just told the truth; I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	No, you know what the truth is. You can deny that we had that conversation. You can deny what you said. But I know this happened. I know that's when you told me why you ran away. That alone has strengthened my opinion that I no longer wanted to be in the sea with you. You can get very angry about that, but I think it was about the fact that you were surprised that the CDA didn't want to rule with you anymore. So I know why you ran away. I also know that much had to be done to still rule with you. You knew that, too. Then it remains that you have only become harder for five years. The fact that you are standing here today is due to only one person: Geert Wilders. You know that. You can't deny it, because we had that conversation together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	That's totally out of the question. It's total, but total, aside from the truth. The truth is, again, we didn't run away. I was just quoting Mr. Hillen, the Secretary of Defense. He didn't say it in a conversation with you or me, but in public in front of the radio. He said you can't blame the PVV. I have just explained to you why that is. I just explained what you didn't deliver. That's the only truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	There is one difference: Mr Hillen was not at those talks, and you and I were. You may deny this, but for me it explains why I will never rule with you: because you simply deny the truth. I thought you and I had a conversation. You told me why you ran away. If the answer is yes, we start with the truth. If the answer is no, don't come to me to ask for trust. Did that conversation happen or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	This too is not true. We had a conversation, but I explained to you that we didn't run away. I explained to you why we went. That was exactly the story I told the scout; I do not know if it is in the report. During the deepest crisis, we didn't have to cut back and grab the people in their pockets. Moreover, on the points we wanted to make, you remember: minimum penalties, one billion in Agemaalden and a stricter immigration policy. That's the story. I told you that, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	The tricky thing is that there's evidence here that I know I shouldn't be running with Geert Wilders. Even now, you're saying something different than the conversation we had back then. For five years, you'll be able to keep it up. And here you say to everyone: what a shame that the CDA and also the VVD do not want to rule with me. Mr Wilders, you have had five years for your many voters. The fact that you are now on the sidelines is only due to one person: to yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	I have already said that this is completely the truth, but you must also stop being such a childish behavior. I already said it in an interview in the daily newspaper. It's like we're in some kind of toddler's room here. Mr Buma says: "I have been bullied once in the past. You have put your tongue out to me and pulled me to my ears once" I know what I would have done "and that's why I don't want to play with you anymore." That's actually what you're saying. "We had a conversation, didn't we? You'd never pull my ears again, and yet you will. I don't want to play with you anymore." It's not a toddler's playroom here. We're talking about the administration of the country. Whether you like it or not: the PVV and not the CDA, Mr Buma... has become the second party of the Netherlands. What would be wrong with the first party, the second party and the third party of the Netherlands, together with other parties who share some ideas, looking forward rather than backwards? Stop being a toddler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	One more time: the way you stand here is once again proof that my remark was justified and my choice is justified. You don't talk like that. That's not how it works. That's not how you build a government. And the result is that a lot of people who voted for you are back on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	You do need a calimero to recognize a toddler bowl. This is real calimero behavior. Let's go back to 2012. We were in what turned out to be the worst recession since the Second World War. We'd been negotiating for seven weeks. We were all out of it. On Thursday night there was a totally closing story. We were negotiated. It was over. We even had some money left. And then Mr Wilders said: I actually want something more for the AOW. And even that was possible. We had done so well that there was still a little room to invest in the people with only an AOW. And on Saturday morning it becomes clear that Mr Wilders does not want to go any further. He plunges the Netherlands into a very severe crisis in an election campaign of four months and then a formation. And that is why it took six months longer than it took to re-establish the necessary recovery. I have always blamed Mr Wilders for that. I felt that in 2010, as leader of a large party, he should have the opportunity to gain access to power. I think that is the democratic right of a large party. But he showed that he is not prepared to take responsibility under difficult circumstances. And, Mr President, that is at the heart of politics. We are not just here to win the next election again, but primarily to govern the country. That means, in difficult times, making difficult decisions. It has become clear to me that Mr Wilders does not want to do that. That's the main reason I don't want to work with him anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	I think we have saved the Netherlands from much more misery by doing what we have done. 'Cause what was in the Cat house? Mr Rutte also knows well enough that we have entered those negotiations to make them work. That was the plan. We didn't sit together at the table for six or seven weeks with premeditated thought to make it fail. But Mrs Agema and I, as negotiators on behalf of the PVV, saw what a terrible austerity package would be, in which care for the elderly, pensions and taxes, from soft drinks to VAT, were cut tremendously at the worst moment of the crisis. The ING has what is it? Show me a report a year ago...Mr. Rutte! If Mr Rutte is finished talking, Madam President... perhaps it would be polite for Mr Rutte to listen when I respond to him. ING has presented a report showing that the Netherlands, by intervening with other parties in the later Kunduz agreement during the worst of the crisis, has lost billions in economic growth. The Netherlands has thus gained unemployment. The Netherlands has thus surrendered purchasing power. What you did was irresponsible. We would not have been worth it if, in the most difficult period of the crisis, we had again blindly signed 15 billion blunt cuts. We didn't do that. We'll never do that. And we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	After seven weeks of negotiating at the Catshuis, we were out. It cannot be that after seven weeks of negotiations Mr Wilders suddenly came to that conclusion and wondered: what have I been doing for seven weeks? Let's take a look at the future. What Mr Wilders is actually describing here is that Italy and France are pursuing the right policies. For they have done far too little in all these years that it was necessary. As a result, the Italian economy is currently one in which youth unemployment has risen to above 40% and public debt to above 140%. France has a budget deficit which cannot be maintained in the coming years. State debt is also rising to over 100%. That is the recipe of which the PVV in 2012, after seven weeks of sensible policy negotiation with CDA and VVD, suddenly, all of a sudden, apparently said: we actually need to implement that policy. We need a policy in the coming years that will continue to restore this country from the crisis, to further reduce unemployment and to ensure that people in the Netherlands, the working Dutchman, are indeed making progress. This is now possible thanks to the policy that has been pursued in recent years. But Mr Wilders did not want to take responsibility for that, because he knew that would be difficult for his constituents. Let him be honest. He chose party interests over national interests. A government party always chooses national interests over party interests, Mr Wilders. That's political leadership. And you failed that test. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	The PVV is precisely the party that chose in the Catshuis for the country's interest, especially the party that did not take the people back into their pensions, care and taxes during the crisis. What Mr Rutte did then, he is going to do again with his friends from GroenLinks, and we will oppose that every day. What can you do if you need money? We argued in favour of this at the time, but I will not leak out of these negotiations until today, because unlike Mr Buma, I am not in a position to do so. We had argued for billions of additional cuts in development aid. It wouldn't have hurt anyone. That wouldn't have hurt a retired man. That would not have harmed the Dutch economy. But that should not be discussed. Mr Rutte took the side of the CDA when he was not allowed to do so. Don't touch me with party interests. He chose the party interest, we choose the national interest. Jesse Klaver and his friends are threatening to crack the Tower right now. They want to make their mark on policy. This means that those who voted for the VVD will probably get a windmill in their backyard, more street terror nearby, a mosque across the street, asylum seekers as neighbours and a very, very large mountain of blue tax envelopes in the mailbox every week. What a cool country with GroenLinks! And the problems with immigration, asylum and terror? Those words, I have just shown it to Mr Rutte when he interrupts, and they are not even in the vocabulary of the VVD anymore. Rutte's letter to the explorer refers to "energy transition"; he doesn't even remember the words "islam" and "immigration." It's become a green-right guy named Mark Rutte. But we really do have a serious problem in our country. That problem is called Islam. Don't talk about it, it won't help. In fact, it's very dangerous. We just remembered the London attack with respect, all of us. Another one in a long line. The threat of terror is greater than ever. Our country will not be spared from it forever either. I say to you: with GroenLinks we will not solve that problem. The PVV can do that. The Prime Minister spoke in the campaign about a wrong type of populism. I just told him what a wrong kind of populism is. That is: in election time tough talk about lower taxes, less immigration and less asylum and after the elections start talking to GroenLinks, the party that stands for huge environmental taxes, which says that borders should remain open, that more asylum seekers should come, no doubt. It is a wrong type of populism to negotiate with it, which, Mr Rutte, is a wrong type of populism. I wish the VVD, Mr Rutte and his fellow negotiator, Mr Zijlstra, a great pleasure, but I hope that their attempt to negotiate with GroenLinks will fail. I secretly hope that Mr Rutte hopes so too. That is not only party politics, it is also in the interests of our country. Because a cabinet with GroenLinks is the worst thing that can happen to the Netherlands. That will not be Rutte III, but the Duyvendak I and rara cabinet who will then become the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. I still have to get used to the fact that I'm getting in line so early these days. 82% of the voters of the Netherlands voted on 15 March. That was the highest turnout in 30 years. By comparison, the turnout in the US elections in November was 57% and in the German elections in 2013 72%. In short, the involvement of the Dutch in these elections was great. Now the Dutchman can also expect actions from politics, because they are necessary. To do that, we must first look at society and, as it were, take a picture of what the Netherlands looks like. What do we see when we look at the country? Then we see that, despite the economic improvement, people still have great concerns. These concerns were the subject of this election. As far as I am concerned, it is a misconception to claim that these elections were about turning populism, as some might call it, let alone that this result would have been successful, because people's concerns are not populist, they are sincere and deeply felt. They are about abhorrence in society, about immigration and integration, about our identity in a changing world, think of Ankara's influence on our democracy, for example. But they are also about security and protection in times of globalisation and of computerisation. In short, concerns to which politics must answer. It is about what answer politics will give. A high election turnout, I said, but also with the result: great fragmentation. Thirteen parties now populate our parliament, more diverse than ever. Making a stable cabinet capable of dealing with these problems is not an easy task, because each coalition will have a small majority and each coalition will consist of more parties than we are used to in the Netherlands. The CDA has exercised independent parliamentary control over the last four years. That was the job in the opposition. In recent months I have often been asked what would possibly be a preferred coalition after the elections. I've always answered, and I'm holding on to that, that the time of preferential coalitions in this country is just over. For the majority alone in the Upper House at least four parties are needed and by now we know that this also applies to the Lower House. In short, we should not ask ourselves which coalition is desirable, but which is necessary, feasible and programmatic. That's what matters. That is why my advice on behalf of the CDA was to the explorer: a coalition that has a majority in both chambers and that meets on content. Subsequently, the opinions of most parties made the investigation of a coalition of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks the most appropriate. In The Hague logic, these four parties are also most eligible for cooperation; the largest party and the three largest winners. At the same time, we must ask ourselves whether the Netherlands sees it as such. Remember that we come from a period in which these parties showed a completely different picture of what society in the Netherlands should look like and find it in depth. Is the individual or society at the forefront? Does a well-functioning country start with individual rights or do you start with collective responsibilities? Until recently, the parties that are about to sit at the table were in direct opposition to each other on issues such as immigration, the labour market, care and security. And then the dividing lines between those four parties often run differently. Many people say that parties today are so similar, but then I say: put the programs next to each other and you see across the spectrum that the differences are larger rather than smaller than a few decades ago. In short, it is a serious task to bridge differences in content. And yet, as far as the CDA is concerned, that is precisely the responsibility at the moment. What matters now for the negotiating parties is to find the common and from there to respond to people's concerns, with recognition of the different starting points and the different visions of society. I mentioned the last few weeks and I said that immigration and integration are a concern and that the labour market is a concern. Flex is the norm, and we don't want that, do we? Security is a concern, national and international. Mental care is a concern. All these concerns will have to be met by this coalition in the discussions, so that we do not talk about The Hague, about defeating populists and others, but about responding to the concerns of ordinary Dutch people. That's what the elections were about, and people are entitled to it. The CDA will work towards addressing these issues with the three partners in the near future. We are going to the next stage. Before we begin, I thank the scout, Edith Schippers. The CDA will support the VVD's proposal to appoint Edith Schippers as an informant for a further phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has chosen. People have come to the ballot box in large numbers. The highest turnout in 30 years. This shows that Dutch people, when it comes to it, are very involved in our democracy. First of all, I would like to congratulate the winners, the colleagues Wilders, Buma, Klaver, Thieme and Krol. We naturally welcome and congratulate the representatives of the newly elected groups of DENK and Forum for Democracy. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the scout, Mrs Schippers, for her thorough and careful work. It has done the preliminary work on the basis of which the Chamber today can take the next step in this formation process: appoint an informant and formulate an assignment. The new political relations in this Chamber are the result of the elections. It was an open campaign, an open fight, without false oppositions in a whipped battle. People could not only vote with their heads, but also with their hearts. Pure profit. We now see, more than in recent years, that the Chamber is a reflection of what is moving society. Like this Chamber, society is a multicoloured palette. That is a good thing, but there is also a downside to this when people face each other. That was the threat hanging over these elections: a divided country, a polarized society in which contradictions are difficult to bridge. Against that background, I campaigned with D66. My goal was and is to bridge contradictions in society, but also in politics. My plea for cooperation was therefore certainly not gratuitous. In that respect, my group advised the scout last week. We aim for a cabinet from the political centre, aimed at cooperation with the left and right, a cabinet in which many Dutch people will recognize themselves, a cabinet that is stable. Only a stable cabinet, with sufficient support in both Chambers of the States-General, can show ambition. This ambition is needed to deal with the major issues of our time. For my group, the fight against division in our country, the sustainability of the economy and an international outlook are important principles. That is why we want an ambitious climate and energy policy, a binding integration policy and a humane refugee policy, a strong impetus for education and innovation and socio-economic innovations in our pension and tax systems. Without closer cooperation in Europe, much of what is needed will not be achieved. So I like to see the Netherlands again in the leading role of the past. That is why my group is pleased that Mrs Schippers, on the basis of her exploration, recommends that I quote from her report "to examine the possibility of a cabinet from VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks." This is a cabinet which my group very much wishes to have. It's stable. It can be ambitious and it can hold society together. My group has every confidence in Mrs Schippers as an informant of this cabinet. Finally. The creation of this cabinet of four parties will not be about roses. There are certainly differences. However, if we only focus on the differences, we will not come to terms with them. People expect us to break walls, work together and not be working on the next election. So let us not stare blindly at what cannot and especially have an eye for what can. Let us bear in mind what former colleague Diederik Samsom calls him once again: the horrific beauty of the compromise. If there is political will, there is also a political path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Pechtold has indicated that he wants to overcome contradictions, and I wholeheartedly support him in this. However, I wonder how he wishes to overcome contradictions with a party that he himself has indicated was not the prime minister of all the Dutch, a party whose leader has indicated that he hates multicultural society, a party that has indicated that she finds the Islamic prayer call jingle, a party that says "pleasant" to groups of people in this country. How does Mr Pechtold wish to overcome contradictions with such a person?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	It is a good question from Mr Kuzu. I too have looked at Mr Rutte's past in the run-up to it. I have also found very interesting points on these issues, and I suspect that we can get him back into his youthful position and that not only in terms of climate and energy, but also in these areas, a learning process is possible for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	At least I'm pleased about that. That is what I shall stick to, Mr Pechtold. But what does this actually mean for what D66 also stood for during the campaign period, namely that she felt that Mr Rutte was not the prime minister for all the Dutch? In Rotterdam D66 is in a coalition with Leefbaar Rotterdam and unfortunately she swallows all kinds of statements. Can I count on D66 in the Lower House not to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	Of course my first answer was a bit of a joke, but I would like to go into it a bit more seriously. Of course, I clearly demonstrated in the campaign where the VVD's list leader, as far as my group is concerned, has left strong stabbings in the past. There are differences, but my group is convinced that if immediately on behalf of another coalition the same person would be prime minister, it should be possible to connect on behalf of everyone. Moreover, I find it extraordinary that Mr Kuzu is asking me this question. Following Mr Kuzu's campaign recently, I have noticed little binding in this regard. Mr Kuzu, I think you are moving away from The Hague. I think you clearly show that you want to be the misfit in other areas. You are even going so far that you, as the only group chairman, gave an opinion to the explorer, which was apparently not made in The Hague but in Rotterdam; just look at your daily appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	The date is: I draw a parallel with what D66 has done to gain power in Rotterdam, namely the swallowing of statements by Leefbaar Rotterdam. I see that the exact same thing is threatening to happen here in The Hague, namely that D66 is going to work with someone who, in the past period, she has detested strongly with me, and has also criticized certain statements he has made. I said to you and I congratulated you on this: I am counting on you to join me in overcoming the contradictions in this society. That's what we stand for. However, I find it rather interesting that you are now giving me a sneer and that you are now glorifying someone you have criticized before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	The latter is not really seen as an opportunity in my constituency. We can show a mild appreciation for a Prime Minister, but for glorification he will still have to go a long way. In all seriousness, I am pleased if Mr Kuzu wants to keep the D66 Group sharp in the coming years when it comes to a binding policy. I hope that his appeal to me and the coalition to be formed is also one he will set an example of himself. I sincerely hope that Mr Kuzu, who himself has shown the necessary political agility in recent years and days, is also prepared to accept from others that they are changing for the better. If we all intend to do so, I also see a good relationship with DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate all the political groups and colleagues who have won. I wish them all the best. I say to all the newcomers: being a representative of the people is the most beautiful profession you can practice. The voter has spoken. For GroenLinks, March 15 was a historic evening. Our group has never been so large. Our campaign of hope, optimism and change, building a movement, has led us to be represented in the Chamber with fourteen seats. What our movement shows above all is that more and more people think that the current path, which our politics and society have taken, is a dead end. The criticism of economics is growing. Economics answers every question with'more market and more competition', such as in our health or education. Economics reduces politics to the management of problems and sees the Netherlands as a company instead of a society, a community of values. It is therefore high time that we turned the focus on the short term into looking to the future, into a cabinet with vision, for example in the area of climate. That is why a new cabinet, according to GroenLinks, must be a cabinet of change. Firstly, this means that we are looking at a humane reception of refugees, that we are complying with the international conventions, that we are encouraging the integration of newcomers and that we are combating discrimination and exclusion. Secondly, it calls for tackling socio-economic inequality and uncertainty in the Netherlands. We must look not only at the labour market and its flexibility, but also at rising income inequality. I believe that low incomes should improve more than high incomes so that everyone can trust that they have a good future for themselves and for their children. Thirdly, climate is perhaps the biggest issue facing us in the coming years. This issue has been pushed forward for too long. We can no longer wait to tackle climate change. The transition to a sustainable energy supply and a green economy must now be made. This will require substantial measures. The proposed Climate Act provides a good framework for this. Addressing climate change cannot and must not be a task for a new cabinet alone; the Chamber must also be on top of it. That is why I am today proposing a special thematic committee on compliance with the Paris Convention on Climate Change, similar to the Committee on Older People's Policy, which, between 2003 and 2006, prepared to deal with the ageing population. Climate policy and tackling climate change go across different areas and also go beyond the different committees we know here. That is why it would be good to put that together in one committee. I think it is important to strengthen the supervisory role of the Chamber in this way. I hope for broad support from colleagues. There is a great responsibility on the Chamber to come to a new cabinet. I would like to thank Mrs Schippers for the work she has done so far. Her report makes it clear that it is not easy to reach a new coalition. It won't be easy to get out together. Each party has a preference for the composition of the new coalition, but there is no clear majority for any preference. In any case, I have made no secret of my preference for a Christian-progressive cooperation. Such a coalition is my preference, but I see it is not possible at the moment. There is now a serious exploration of the possibility of a coalition between the extremes of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks. Let me put it bluntly: the discussions on a possible coalition agreement in this combination will be very complex. The differences between our parties are great; as I said earlier: huge. However, I believe that we should seriously examine this cooperation. GroenLinks owes it to its constituents and its ideals to conduct these talks very seriously. We want to investigate whether change is possible with this combination. We want to investigate whether differences can be bridged. Let me be clear: GroenLinks is not going to participate in a cabinet to make policy a little less bad or to cut off the sharp edges of grey and right-hand policies. For us, it is about formulating a joint mission aimed at the future and overcoming contradictions. This calls for an agenda of change, and that is what we are going to try to achieve in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	I also like to congratulate Mr Klaver from here on the enormous victory of GroenLinks. If you want change, you have to go for it. So I think it's only right that GroenLinks chooses that, especially when you say: you don't change on your own. You'll always have to do that with other parties, and preferably outside this Chamber. Mr Klaver has often referred to his predilection for Christian-social thinking and to his background from the trade union movement. I would therefore like to ask him, as I asked the Prime Minister, whether we can count on him not to make all the arrangements in the sometimes distressed environment of a negotiating chamber, no matter how pleasant, with Mrs Schippers in it, but also to ensure that he is connected with what is happening in the rest of the country. Is he also prepared, for example, to conclude a social agreement with trade unions and employers? That fits his background, but I think that also fits what is needed in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	I think it's the most important thing for a new cabinet to be connected to society. I look at social partners, but I don't just look at them. I believe that there are many more social partners with whom we should make this change possible. Mr Asscher spoke about a social agreement. Of course I'm prepared to do that. Everyone should be willing to close that down. But when I look at the current challenges in the labour market, I see above all the great challenge for politics and the major changes that are needed. In this context, I would like to mention a tax review and the regulation of flex contracts. First of all, I see a major task for the government. So let me just be very clear, too. Yes, this consultation with the social partners is very important. But we should not throw the problems at them. I believe that we should also take our responsibility as a political one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	I very much agree with that. I would almost say: shake my hand, Mr Klaver, to agree to do so. Of course, political responsibility must be taken. This is now primarily up to other parties. The challenges that lie ahead are clear. They've been reported by all the parties. I am counting on you to keep the promise that society will be involved even after today. That has been the strength of your campaign. This must be seen, even if the agreements become more concrete. We are talking about more than the social partners, but they must at least be involved. That will be your support in a coalition with people who are a little bit more on the right. So I'm counting on you to keep that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	I think we're on the same side here. If you want to achieve a change, you need a broad movement. This applies not only to a party but also to a cabinet, in my view. I certainly do not see that being limited to the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	Let me look back at the first part of Mr Klaver's speech. In that he said a lot of very sensible things. How does Mr Klaver intend to achieve this with three right-wing parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	First of all, thank you for the compliment. I don't know how we're gonna do that yet. I only know one thing: before that, you need to talk to each other and be willing to explore the content of how to get together. I have tasted the willingness of colleagues to talk to us as well. Apparently, they thought that I also put forward some sensible things. So we're gonna see if it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	I see a very different Mr Klaver than just before the elections, when he wanted to shake his hand when it came to the fact that the parties should not be allowed to take part on the right and that they should not, in particular, help Mr Rutte to a majority. It's his right to do so now. I'll see what comes out. Or is it more: I have to have such a conversation for the stage in order to say "no" very quickly? If that is the case, I say do it very quickly, do it tonight and we'll be back tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	If I gave you that impression, I'd have to work on my attitude. It certainly isn't. In my letter to the scout as well as in my contribution to this debate, I indicated that it is most obvious to speak with these parties first. That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna try to get out. I have indicated that the differences are large. They're huge. But I am confident that at least there are people at the table who are willing to see if we can bridge those differences. And that's not gonna work tonight. We could try, but I think we need a little more time. And so do I. I think it would be very bad for everyone if we just tried something. No, we really need to get in there with each other and try to get out. In the end, we'll know if it worked or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr Klaver gave that impression especially before the elections. He gave the impression of wanting to take really big steps in terms of income inequality, in terms of climate, and you name it all. These are subjects that are far away from parties like the VVD. You warned Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, and you warned me not to do so. Now you didn't have to warn me about that, because I'm not gonna do it anyway. Then you said, "I'm not going to help the VVD to a majority, give me a hand," to say after the elections that you were going to try anyway. Aren't you just going to do a Samsomme here before the elections and then sit down with the same VVD after the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	It is nice that some of the debates in the election campaign come back. That's when you brought this up. At the time, there was a rather crucial difference between the design of the SP and the composition of GroenLinks. I have always said that I do not exclude the VVD. I can express my wish for the kind of coalition I want. That's what I've been doing. However, there may be a situation in which this is not possible. Then I don't choose to stand on the sidelines with my party. Then I'll see what I've been given. I'd rather be sorry, I say to the VVD! This is not the case at the moment. I believe that this also applies to the VVD. You'll see if you can get out with each other. This is a crucial difference between the preparation of the SP and the preparation of GroenLinks, which became clear in the campaign. We have made it very clear: if there is an alternative, as far as we are concerned, we are prepared to keep them out, even if we are the largest. There is no alternative now. I think you can conclude that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	I can indeed conclude that you are either going along with changing the old policy a little bit, or being rather naive. I hope that the latter is the case and that you will very quickly come to the conclusion that it has been conversations that do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	There is a third option, Mr Roemer, which I have just indicated. We do not want to add a little bit to the policy or make it a little bit less difficult. We want big changes. Sometimes such a big change comes with small steps, but I'm gonna try to get it done. Because I don't want to say right now that it doesn't work out and throw the towel in the ring. I am really sorry that you have done so now and that you have said that you are not even going to talk to the VVD. I really hope we get out. If not, then I will answer to you again, but above all to the electorate and the movement, why it did not succeed. That's how democracy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the scout for the report and the discussions that have taken place. The elections are over, the voter has spoken. A number of parties have clearly won or have joined the Chamber. I should like once again to congratulate them on this. These elections were not about more or less us, about minor changes in existing policies, but about a new direction for our country. About the growing division and the unequal odds. About the power of the market and the powerlessness of the people. About democracy, work, income, but above all about new perspectives. The growing inequality, the tensions in society here and elsewhere in the world, the call for a sustainable economy, the fight against discrimination; it all calls for a different policy and a different policy. The voter has spoken. I can understand that now the VVD is being looked at as the first to see how a government can be formed. After all, she's become the biggest. But as far as the SP is concerned, a government without the VVD is still perfectly possible. The ease with which it is thought that the VVD should in any case be in a next cabinet goes too far for me. I would like to hear from Mrs Schippers in her role as explorer how serious the combination VVD/CDA/D66/GroenLinks is, which is now going to be discussed. Does she consider this attempt to be a very serious option? Or is this, above all, a step that needs to be taken in order to say that this option has been examined but has proved to be unopposed? And what does she base this on? In the conversation with the scout, I made it clear for a reason that combinations other than a government with the VVD are possible. One majority in this Chamber is not worth more than the other. Over the past decades, we have had a neoliberal policy, in which the VVD has always played a prominent and decisive role. In particular, this has led to a society in which it is more "everyone for itself," in which solidarity and security have been under constant pressure. In the coming period, we need a policy that invests in society, in man, in security, in solidarity and in sustainability. If it is up to the SP, that must be the starting point of another government. Real changes will not happen if we stick to the policy that has dominated politics in recent years. Hence for us a cabinet with SP and VVD was excluded, is and remains. In this Parliament, with so many different parties, there are coalitions that can support this. I wish the negotiators much wisdom in their discussions, knowing that there is a social alternative on the centre-left that research is worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. This is my maiden speech, but I have no objection to interrupting. I should like to congratulate all the winners of the elections. I see a room full of cheerful new faces here, but I also have to think of the many dear colleagues who said goodbye last week. The election result was a huge hit for the Labour Party. That also means that we now fit modesty. At the same time, we know that a moment of setback is the best time to show character. We have a party to be proud of. A social economy and a decent society are and remain worth fighting for. Many Dutch people share the pursuit of a fairer society. The Labour Party's group has advised the scout, whom we thank for her work, to explore the possibility of a coalition of the largest party with winners GroenLinks, CDA and D66. This means that I support the VVD's proposal on this point. The assignment for a new cabinet is great. The planet warms up quickly and is also dangerous and divided with Erdogan, Putin and Trump. In our own country we see the tensions and differences between groups of Dutch increase. We see the division in society, but also the fragmentation here in the House of Representatives. Thirteen parties have been elected. The biggest party has only 33 seats, even if I'd be thrilled. But let's face it, the Prime Minister, who called this the quarterfinal against the bad populists, may have overreacted. The VVD has indeed become the largest, but has populism really been dealt with? I don't believe it. The PVV has become the second party to be congratulated on a programme of one A4 full of attacks on the Constitution and so on. Bridging a contradiction and ensuring connection between different groups of Dutch people is urgently needed. Nichepopulism can suppress the general interest for the sake of the interests of one group. Unfortunately, our past period has not been able to reverse the trend of fragmentation and hardening, but the PvdA will continue to fight for a society in which we look back at each other and in which everyone belongs. This is a permanent task for the Labour Party but also for a new cabinet. I hear a lot of chatter in the right field, but apparently that's normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	I take all my colleagues seriously, but it is becoming a sort of pub behind Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	Okay. There is a need to further tackle the division of labour and to create more permanent jobs, but it is also necessary to tackle labour migration that is used to pressure wages. The Labour Party has also indicated this to the scout. She believes it is important that a new cabinet, including the parties that are now going to make an effort, should not do it on its own, but seek a connection, seek support from social partners and social institutions. This can be done, for example, in the form of a new social agreement, which fits in with the Dutch tradition. There is a need for space and attention for the elderly and the vulnerable. A new cabinet will have to reduce competition in healthcare and opt for more cooperation. It is necessary for people who still feel the pain of the crisis today to make extra progress. So yes, a new cabinet will have to continue redistributing. We need to prepare our children better for the robots, the artificial intelligence, the new world in which they must find their way. It is necessary to provide security in an unstable world for those who live here and for those who come here. Climate change needs to be countered in view of its social consequences. The Labour Party will continue to stand up for this from the Chamber. It will continue to fight for a just society with opportunities for all, the best schools, good work and a fair distribution of prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. The mores of this house require that after a maiden speech there is always a moment suspended and that congratulations and flowers are distributed. Maybe there are some roses at home; I don't know. We are skipping that part of the mores, but I would like to express my warmest congratulations. I would also like to express my admiration for the resilience with which Mr Asscher is already going to the interrupting microphone and has also expressed his maiden speech here. Welcome here. I'm honored to have you among us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	I'm gonna cut to the chase. On the evening of the elections, at nine o'clock in the evening, we all suffer from party political shortsightedness, at least I do. Then there is only one question: how many seats does the party have? The NOS kept us all in suspense almost two weeks ago, but a few hours later we knew for sure. In the meantime, we can see the political landscape well. The beauty of the last election is the high turnout, after a very good, substantive campaign, as far as I am concerned. Politics is alive. It seems that voters have not only voted strategically, but above all with their hearts. This results in a multicoloured Chamber, which is now sitting in front of me, in which large parties have become smaller and smaller parties larger. As always in our country, we are called to work together again from now on. Only with joint efforts will we keep our country habitable, keep our air clean and keep our feet dry. That collaboration is the miracle of the polder. At the same time, I am also afraid that the ability to work together is under pressure. Larger popular parties in our country have long been able to unite young and old, high-educated and low-educated, newcomer and native, rich and poor in their party. This could be done by appealing to higher common interests. Political cooperation between the parties has always proved possible, with an appeal to the general interest. Now the big question is: can we still do it? Are we still able to work together as a country of minorities and at a time of growing polarisation and jointly seek the good for our country? Since I am not quite sure yet, these are also the concerns of the polder as far as the Christian Union is concerned. In this way, one of the major tasks of a new cabinet has been outlined. Social, economic and cultural gaps which are increasingly dividing our country will have to be reduced. We live in this country by the grace of charity and cooperation. Then it comes first to political cooperation. The scout has made a first search for a possible composition of a new cabinet. I would like to thank her very much for that work. The Christian Union Group has indicated to it that the largest party must take the lead, that justice must be given to the outcome of the elections, that the largest parties and the winners are now in the process of moving forward and that a coalition must be established that can achieve fruitful cooperation with both chambers of the States General. Our group notes that the scout has issued an opinion that is consistent with these principles and therefore also supports the opinion of the scout to be the first to examine the viability of a combination of the groups of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks. We wish these parties, led by the intended informant, much wisdom. Finally. Whatever the outcome, a new cabinet faces major challenges. The success of the cabinet stands or falls with a joint mission, with which these challenges are addressed. It is about the future of our children: their education, their families and their climate. Secondly, it is a society in which we look forward to each other and in which, for example, our older people belong and there is good care for them. Thirdly, freedom, including freedom of religion and freedom of education. A freedom we defend here, with a strong defence. A freedom that we also grant others, through help elsewhere in the world. The voter has spoken. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Whether we are in the opposition or in the coalition, it is time for us to give each other our word and seek cooperation so that we can do the right thing for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the scout, Mrs Schippers, for her work and for the pleasant conversations. This formation revolves around a engine block of 71 seats and a lifting kit to be able to get above 75. The heart is formed by the outgoing Prime Minister, who has a dominant position with 33 seats. One of the most successful boys' books is the Schippers of the Chameleon. It's about skippers and a boat that takes all the colors of the rainbow and a engine block that gives enormous speed to the boat that wasn't really built for that. In the scout's report, such an image seems to be emerging: a VVD engine block complemented by a dominant CDA vision on sustainability, which together leaves little room for the ideals of the green partners. Mr Rutte as a dead-painted captain, Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma as first and second mate, and Mr Klaver, and possibly also Mr Segers, as a light seaman. What would a trip like that look like? To get some insight into that, it's good to take a look at the possible captain, Mark Rutte. As 22-year-old president of the JOVD, Mark Rutte had great difficulty with the 1989 VVD election programme. I quote: 'The fight against environmental pollution must be given higher priority than the reduction of burdens or the lack of funding. Delaying the fight against environmental pollution means increasing costs for future generations. A high environmental debt puts a mortgage on the future. For future generations, a less polluted environment and higher public debt can be more financially advantageous than the other way around. Therefore, postponing environmental measures due to the level of funding gap can be very uncooperative," said 22-year-old Mark Rutte. This 22-year-old Rutte also argued in favour of environmental taxes and said that this is a 'correction of the market mechanism and not a common collective burden'. End of quote. Almost 20 years later, he wrote the Pamphlet of an optimist in 2008. In it, he says that a green-right course is his greatest ambition. He called the Western dependence on fossil fuels one of the greatest threats of our time, because of the scarcity, but also because of geopolitical considerations and the washing water. In 2009, group chairman Rutte said in the Chamber, and I quote again: "I have always had great difficulty with the bio-industry, with the accumulation of pigs in a humane way. Animal welfare is very high for us on the wish list. It's very important. You can always contact us for this." End of quote. In the last two cabinets it seems that Mr Rutte has been hazing quite a bit. The beauty of a chameleon is that the animal can assume the colour of its surroundings. That could be the color of the CDA in the engine block that is now in the workshop. The green of monotonous rai grass fields, where there is no room for grazing birds and cows, but a manure surplus of 76 billion kilos. Or it could be the green of D66 and GroenLinks, parties who, according to their electoral programmes, are arguing for a drastic reduction in livestock farming and fishing, in fact anything the CDA does not want. If Mr Rutte wants to live up to his sustainable dreams from 1989, 2008 and 2009, the conversion to an electric engine is very obvious. A truly green VVD dreads subsidies for environmentally damaging activities that cost around EUR 5 to 10 billion per year. A true liberal finds it horrifying that EUR 363 billion is being spent in the EU on agriculture, especially on subsidies. The green ideals that Mark Rutte has been dreaming of since he was 22 can become reality in a coalition with parties like D66, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and the Party for Animals. The real green Rutte could be a great catalyst for that. The outlined sustainable coalition without the CDA never again Bleker.. can count on 90 seats and a majority in both Chambers. And why not? When Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver and Mr Segers join forces and the Terlouw Manifesto of the ten political youth organisations as a guide to the cabinet formation, this coalition is very obvious. If such a coalition turns out to be impossible, I would ask Mrs Schippers to think about a neutral cabinet; a cabinet in which ministers of name and fame take place but without direct party political commitment or responsibility in the national interest. There is ruled on the basis of varying majorities with maximum dualism. I have added the possibilities for this because of my limited speaking time to De Schippers van de Kameleon. I will ensure that all my fellow Members do not receive the book, because that is too expensive for me to receive the copy. I would like to hand over De Schippers van de Kameleon to the chairman with the request to pass the book on to Mrs Schippers after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u69	The Democracy Forum is pleased to hear that our proposal for a business cabinet seems to find support in other ways and in other words with other members of this house. We warmly welcome this plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u70	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u71	I, too, understand that Mrs Schippers is going to be an informant. I wish her much wisdom and strength, and I would also like to point out that I believe that the new coalition agreement should include an end to the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u72	Madam President. Thanks to scout Edith Schippers and congratulations to the VVD. Despite the considerable loss this party managed to get out of the bus again. Congratulations, of course, to all parties who did make real profits. I am thinking in particular of the newcomers DENK and the Forum for Democracy. Madam President, allow me to thank the more than 325 000 voters who voted on 50PLUS for their confidence. On Monday 20 March, 50PLUS had a conversation with scout Mrs Schippers. We have indicated that the largest party and the winners of the elections should try to form a coalition. In this respect, the planned discussions of VVD, D66, CDA and GroenLinks are a logical step. Nevertheless, it remains remarkable that no further talks are being made with the other big winners. An important task of a new coalition to be formed is to regain citizens' confidence in national politics. 50PLUs has a preference for a coalition with a majority in the First and Second Chambers, but that is not necessary as far as we are concerned. 50Plus will assess the discussions on a possible coalition and its outcomes on the following, crucial to us, seven points. First of all... The accelerated increase in the AOW entitled age and the linking of the AOW entitled age to life expectancy is not acceptable. Second. In the short term, a temporary basis must be laid for the calculation rate for supplementary pensions, in line with the initiative proposal tabled by 50PLUS and to be defended by Mr Van Rooijen. The aim of this is to avoid reductions for the next five years, not only on benefits but also on claims that are still being built up by young people. Third. An adjustment of the financial review framework, allowing indexing of pensions and claims. Fourth. A structural increase in the AOW benefit above the welfare level. Fifth. A tax reduction for older people who eliminate the backlog incurred during Rutte II. Tax reductions should never discriminate according to age. Sixth. Start reducing market forces in care and a clear financial boost to long-term care, including care for the elderly. Finally and seventhly. Aborting the loan system and returning to the basic grant. Of course we have more wishes, but these seven points are of the utmost importance to us. We assume that the Chamber will be informed in good time and fully of the state of play during the trial. We therefore propose that, regardless of the state of play, a debate be held immediately after May. All groups, and especially the people at home, have the right to know what happens to their voices after the elections. 50PLUs wishes informant Edith Schippers and the parties much wisdom in the talks. Should the informant wish advice on our seven points or even more: she has my telephone number.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u73	Madam President. This is the debate of looking back and looking forward; looking back at the campaign and the election results, but especially looking forward to the formation. Looking back: it was an exciting election battle, with regularly even substantive debates and fine statements. An honourable mention in the category of "pronunciations that stay with you" is in place for CDA leader Buma in the final debate: "Jesse Klaver's daydreams are nightmares for the Dutch. I'll pass for that. Find another one." Clare language, I'd say. And then it was election day. Rare elections seen with so many real winners, too many to mention. But a special achievement was the Forum for Democracy, which managed to enter with two seats, without his candidates being able to campaign from the Chamber benches. Chapeau! Satisfaction also exists with our own SGP, which was once again allowed to make significant votes, so that we could retain the seat profits of the last time. But it is difficult that the election results as a whole do not say much about the desired cabinet. Those who want a more flexible migration policy were given the wind, but also those who want a stricter policy. Pro-European parties won seats, but also parties that are critical of European Union. Parties in favour of a ready-to-life law won votes, but also parties that strongly oppose them. One thing is striking: the pronounced left-hand block in the Chamber is historically small. The PvdA has been mercilessly punished by the electorate. Today's voter doesn't seem to love a slick trade-off and balanced compromises. If you let that work on you, you would say that one lesson you can learn for formation is that it is desirable for the confidence of the citizen that parties forming a coalition should be as close to each other as possible. For the SGP, agreement on content and political will to cooperate are more important than the question of who is a big or slightly smaller winner. Those who have won have a thicker finger in the porridge, simply because they are bigger. But we shouldn't exaggerate profit and loss again. It would not be right to let the voice of floating voters suddenly sound stronger than the voice of loyal voters. The fourteen seats of the SP are worth as much as the fourteen seats of GroenLinks. If you are able to go in all directions with this election result, it would be preferable for the SGP to go in the right direction. This is, of course, a question of political preference. That of the SGP goes out to a centre-right coalition that takes decisive action with the important challenges facing the Netherlands. An urgent task, in the SGP's view, is to strengthen Christian values, including the protection of vulnerable lives, Sunday rest and looking after each other. Sturdy multi-annual investments are needed for security and defence, but also integration policies. Immigration policy must be stricter, linked to better reception in the region. Trustworthy reforms are needed for the tax and pension system, which means lower burdens and greater freedom of choice for families and entrepreneurs. During the campaign, we were struck by stories from farmers, fishermen and inland waterway boatmen, who often know so little about their entrepreneurship and thus suffer from defiance and control drive on the part of the government. That needs to change. Great efforts are also needed in order to achieve more modest European cooperation that does more justice to national sovereignty. The question now is: which way will the formation process go? I would also like to thank Mrs Schippers for her exploratory talks and for the clear report. The outcome of the exploration is now that the collaboration of CDA, VVD, D66 and GroenLinks will be investigated. Especially D66, as I noticed, has been enthusiastic about this. My question to the explorer is: how does this dream cabinet of Pechtold relate to Buma's nightmares? How deep is the love between the different parties? Is there really a willingness to bridge large differences? In any case, I wish all the negotiators a great deal of wisdom in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the scout for the work she has done and for the report she has produced. I would also like to congratulate all the political parties that won the last election on behalf of DENK. Of course, I congratulate the VVD on being the biggest out of the bus, but also the CDA, D66, GroenLinks, 50PLUS, the Animal Party and the Forum for Democracy. I would also like to congratulate the country on the fact that Geert W. and its PVV have not succeeded in becoming the largest in these elections. Our country has been protected from the xenophobia of the PVV. What an international embarrassment we would have been if we had sent this party with a program that fits on a cigar box to the Tower. I am truly satisfied that Wilders can only bark, scream and tweet along the sidelines for four years again. Every time he does that, I will be facing him over and over again for the next four years to fight his ideas in the democratic debate. The voter can hold DENK to that. Unfortunately, justice, hardening and brutality have also won. "Fuck off" Prime Minister Mark Rutte has together with Sybrand "Islam is a danger" Buma everything, but also done everything to fish hard words in the electoral pond of Geert Wilders to catch a few fishes. They did it. We therefore hold on to our hearts for the coming period. Because a Prime Minister who calls on Turkish Dutch people to fight, despite all the discrimination, that Mo has to fight, indicating that the Islamic prayer call is screaming, terrible screaming and has even been personally convicted of discrimination; that is not normal, is it not? We wonder out loud whether Mark Rutte can still be a connecting Prime Minister for all Dutch. I don't have much faith in it. That is why DENK has also indicated its support for a coalition without the VVD. CDA, D66, SP, PvdA and GroenLinks should be at the heart of a cabinet as progressive as possible that breaks with the right-wing rotten policy of the past four years. Unfortunately, we have seen today that probably will not happen. VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks talk about forming a coalition. As far as this cooperation is concerned, I dare to make a prediction: it is not going to work. Jesse Klaver and GroenLinks will not dare in the run-up to the municipal elections in 2018. The discussion that is currently taking place is a formality for the stage in order to exclude cooperation. Eventually a coalition will be formed with the man who doesn't say it openly yet, but who is eager to become minister again: Louis Asscher. The dance around the dolls is less interesting than the importance of our country. That is why we want to give the cabinet a number of assignments. The first is the fight against discrimination and racism. The previous cabinet allowed discrimination to spread because the VVD didn't want to do anything and because the PVV couldn't and couldn't do anything. The previous cabinet was mainly a talking cabinet. As far as we are concerned, the new cabinet really needs to become a canvas cabinet. Secondly, the fight against inequality. Income inequality is increasing. 431,000 children are now growing up at risk of poverty. Now that there is money, the fruits must also be shared fairly. Point three: increasing equality of opportunity in education. More resources must be made available for educational deficits, the lending system must disappear and we must address the under-advisation of children with a migrant background and children from lower-income families. Fourthly, the quality and affordability of health care. The own risk increased by €165 in four years. A lot of people don't go to the doctor because they can't afford this. The own risk must therefore be eliminated. This must go hand in hand with a substantial investment in the quality of care for the elderly. Against these challenges, we will assess a forthcoming coalition agreement. Now that there's money to be spent, we can break the right-wing rotten policy of the last four years. Dare to stand for a fairer and fairer Netherlands, because the Netherlands belongs to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr. Chairman. Quo usque tandem factionem cartellum et officialum machina patientia nostra abutitur dum navis praetoria resurrectionis ad profiscendum parata est?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u76	How long will the party cartel and the lap carousel test our patience while the flagship of the Renaissance fleet is ready? The suggested follow-up as indicated by the scout in her report, which now looks for a cabinet of VVD, CDA and D66 together with GroenLinks, seems to us to be the most unwise course. This course will not only betray the different voters who have voted for these different parties for different reasons, but also undermine democracy as such. We will then have the same mixture, the same ratchet, the same gatherings, the same undrinkable cocktail as we have seen in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet over the last period of government. It will be impossible to formulate decisive policies. We will be holding each other in a stranglehold, in which compromises will be made that no one will serve. You can already hear the Prime Minister say: Jesse, if you allow me lower taxes on multinationals, I'll give you energy transition. It's higher cartel logic, quartets with views, or, in this case, clovers. On 15 March, the electorate chose different themes for which the various parties campaigned. Some voters will have chosen to restrict immigration. Other voters have chosen to reduce the age of AOW. Others want more money in education or less rules for entrepreneurs. Whatever the different themes have been, we now have a new House of Representatives, which contains varying majorities on different themes. The best way to do justice to the outcome of the election, in addition to the business cabinet that we have already proposed, where the best people end up in the different ministerial posts, regardless of political colour, is to make statements on the five most important issues of the elections. Voters will then get a clear picture of the direction that a future cabinet will have to take. The political primacy lies with us, the States-General. Let us stress that primacy again by holding roll-call votes on the following five issues: for or against seriously restricting immigration, for or against further expansion of the European Union's power, for or against a rapid, structural reduction of taxes for all workers and AOWs, for or against modernising democracy by introducing elected mayors and binding referendums and for or against concrete measures to ensure the objectivity of the anticipated NPO. We can simply vote on it as a Chamber. We are the elected representatives of the people. The government should play a serving role in which specialist ministers with knowledge from practice and with smart ideas should gain our favor, within the framework of what we first offer here as a playing field. It is time to renew our democracy and say good-bye to the racket in the back room. We're no longer going to be docile, waiting and see what trade-out the cartelists are about to come up with. We are not going to wait and see which dolls are next for a ministerial post? It's up to us to represent the people. We can do that now. The Democracy Forum calls on you to break free from the cartel structures and create a real democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr. Chairman. I thank the House of Representatives for the trust in me, for the pleasant conversations, for the input provided and for the friendly words. It took a little more time for this reconnaissance because we also started the reconnaissance later. I have spoken with all the groups, with some groups on several occasions, but you have been able to see and read all of this, because it is reflected in my report. It also states how the various parties interpret the election results and what steps should be taken further in the formation process. Mr Roemer and Mr Van der Staaij asked how serious the discussions are about to take place between VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks. I have asked the parties independently of each other and with each other how seriously they wanted to investigate this. They have informed me in both talks that they want to do so very seriously. That does not alter the fact that there are differences that you can also see for yourself, but they are going to have these conversations very seriously. I also have faith in their commitment. Mrs Thieme and Mr Baudet spoke in favour of a business cabinet or a neutral cabinet. On the basis of the discussions I have had on this subject as a scout, I can only conclude that there is insufficient support for this in the House of Representatives. Several speakers have today announced what they expect from a new cabinet. A number of them had already done so in the conversations. We regard all this as useful material for the work that is now waiting. I will commit myself as much as possible to and focus on the cabinet formation. I look forward to working as an informant, for which I still get an assignment from the Chamber. Oops! I'm gonna watch my back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to go look, 'cause I've got a motion here somewhere. Yes. I think we should put this off properly. On behalf of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks, I would like to table the following motion on behalf of Mr Buma, Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver. The Chamber, heard the debate, having taken note of the scout's report, Mrs E.I. Schippers and the opinion on the cabinet formation contained therein; takes on board the content of this opinion; declares that the President and the King are regularly informed of the progress of the discussions on the information; notes, moreover, that agreements are being made with the informant on the communication of information, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was proposed by Mr Mark Rutte, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 2 (34700).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u79	In that motion the report of Bovend'Eert was also incorporated with the evaluation of the cabinet formation of 2012. We thought it would be a good idea to do it this way. The words "take over the opinion" concern the appointment of Ms Schippers as an informant and the investigation of a cabinet consisting of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr. Chairman. I'll proceed with the filing of one motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas it is crucial for the Netherlands as a vulnerable delta and signatory to the Paris Convention on Climate Change that the objectives of this Convention be met and global warming stopped; Whereas compliance with the Paris Convention on Climate Change requires a long-standing, systematic and integrated approach by the Dutch government, which will have consequences in many policy areas and will require a large number of ministries to take initiatives; Whereas such an approach will benefit from the combination of well-structured and intensive dialogue between the Chamber and the Cabinet and consistent, balanced and integrated decision-making; calls on the Presidium, bearing in mind Article 17 of the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber of the States-General, to promote the establishment of a thematic committee on compliance with the Paris Convention on Climate Change, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 3 (34700).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u81	I have a very brief procedural comment on the motion. I understand GroenLinks' request, but I thought the Chamber would decide on the composition of committees only after the information has been finalised. I suggest that we hold the motion until the information process is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u82	I think this is wise, if only because I cannot count on a majority in the Chamber because of this remark at the moment. I think that this committee should be there, but if we have to wait a moment with the votes, that seems fine to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the Presidents of ten youth political organisations led by Jan Terlouw have asked for a sustainable cabinet based on widely shared principles which read as follows: 1. The policy of the cabinet will aim to make the Netherlands one of the leaders in the field of sustainability, in particular as regards the concreteisation of the Paris agreements. The cabinet will take concrete measures to this end. 2. The polluter pays principle will be the starting point of government policy. This creates a level playing field for industry, which is a prerequisite for successful innovations in sustainable production. 3. The Cabinet will assess each measure against its impact on the quality of the earth, nationally and internationally, now and in the future. 4. The cabinet will make every effort to promote internationally that multinational companies pay no less taxes than small and medium-sized enterprises. 5. In implementing the above measures, the government will be the human standard in legislation, regulation and policy; declares that the Terlouw Manifesto should serve as a starting point for the cabinet formation, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 4 (34700).
