ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Following the AO on the Transport Council, the following. The Minister's position is that she is against the German toll, and we think that is quite correct, but the Minister expressed himself very parliamentaryly, as we have heard in the AA. She says she's considering taking legal action against Germany's decision. My colleague Martijn van Helvert has asked the Minister on behalf of the CDA. Encouraged to be firmer in that. If Germany maintains these toll plans, then we simply need to take legal action against them, in our opinion. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas neighbouring Germany intends to levy tolls on German roads as from 1 January 2019;]] [[noting that the way in which Germany intends to do so has a negative impact on Dutch road users;]] [[whereas frontier regions will also be disadvantaged by the German toll system, which is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to initiate all possible legal procedures to stop the German tolling and to cooperate with Austria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Visser and Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-641]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	I didn't see that. I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	How can you overlook Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr President, thank you for not overlooking me. At the AO Transport Council we were promised that the Minister would outline the impact of the different taxes, charges and exemptions. It seems to me that this motion is a little premature, because it seems useful to me to get an idea of it first from the Minister before we conclude that there is indeed discrimination against the Dutch motorist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u6	The effects in the border region are very large, as we expect. Since Germany has announced implementation, the CDA believes that we really need to take a stand against it and go so far as to take legal action to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u7	I understand the position of the CDA, because it was crystal clear in the AA, but we have been promised that the Minister will identify the impact of all these different measures. Mr Ronnes expects it to be bad, but as long as we do not have an overview of the impact of all these different measures, is it premature to say to the Minister: sue them, go to court?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u8	We have also seen the effect of excise duties in the border region. We walk around that border region long enough to see what effect it will have if a neighbouring country takes measures that are detrimental to the citizens living in that area. That is why we want to go to war against this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u9	Now you can leave. I call Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United States is withdrawing from the Paris Agreement;]] [[whereas the US is no longer an attractive location for the clean car industry;]] [[Whereas the European automotive industry has a leading role to play as a producer of clean vehicles;]] [[calls on the Government to call on the European Commission to examine how Europe will become an attractive location for the clean car industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-642]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u11	I'm gonna have to get up anyway. Just now, Mrs Van Tongeren accused the CDA, and indeed the VVD and the PVV, of coming forward with premature motions. Has Mrs Van Tongeren been informed by Mr Trump that he has cancelled the Paris climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u12	All the signals point in that direction, but if the VVD has less ambition than GroenLinks to get the European car industry up and running as quickly as possible by really giving it a leading role, I would regret that. I saw Mrs Visser smile. I was expecting support in this motion for giving the European car industry a leading role in the production of clean vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u13	I was not concerned with the content of the motion or with the appeal, but with Mrs Van Tongeren's observation and with her accusation to three parties that they were premature. It is now tabling a motion itself, even though it does not know whether Trump will actually cancel the climate agreement. It's more of a observation, not a question. I just noticed, so I want to make this observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u14	I wouldn't give much to change President Trump's mind, but the omens clearly indicate that unfortunately this will not be the case. That is also something that this minister, with all her influence, may not be able to fully influence. We cannot therefore ask this Minister to change his mind at the eleventh hour, although perhaps he will. Let's hope so. In the meantime, this seems to me to be a golden opportunity for the European and Dutch clean car industry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are many different systems in Europe that require cars or lorries to pay for the use of (highways) roads, tunnels, bridges or access to inner cities;]] [[noting that it is desirable to use one technical standard to collect these charges or to obtain permission to drive into a city centre;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to speed up a European standard for these on board units,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-643]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u15	It's about me not having 27 different things in your car or truck, but getting one clear and simple system. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more road accidents are caused by drivers being distracted by smartphones;]] [[Whereas motorists, public authorities, employers, insurers and telecoms companies have a joint responsibility in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission or to take the initiative to use technologies such as SafeDrivePod in cars and trucks by mutual agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-644]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. A motion has just been filed against the German toll. This has to do with the fact that Germany compensates its own motorists through taxes, but it does not do so for the other road users. As far as we are concerned, the necessary steps are being taken to stop this toll. We have spoken in favour of this before, and we are doing so again with this motion. I have a motion of my own. Yesterday, a large package was presented that will be discussed informally at the Transport Council. We know that this will come back several times in the coming month, but I think it is good to speak out on this. In the documents we have been able to read so far, we noticed a number of things. Europe wants to settle a number of national issues while we believe that it is up to the Netherlands itself to do so. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission presented its mobility package yesterday, including the proposal to include an obligation for Member States to replace existing tolls and vignettes with a road charge based inter alia on mileage travel, environmental requirements and congestion;]] [[Whereas the establishment of conditions or, in any form of pricing, is not consistent with the principle that Member States themselves determine how they intend to tax infrastructure;]] [[noting that the European Commission states that the proceeds of such a road tax could be an important part of the financing of maintenance delays of EUR 60 billion in Europe;]] [[Considering that the taxation of mobility and infrastructure is and should remain a national competence and therefore should not be linked to mandatory policy objectives by Europe;]] [[Considering that revenue from any charges on any basis in the Netherlands should not be used as a structural source of financing for the construction, management and maintenance of infrastructure elsewhere in Europe;]] [[noting that the mobility package will be discussed in the Transport Council in the coming months;]] [[calls on the Government to declare that the introduction of road pricing in any form or on any basis is a national competence;]] [[calls on the Government to state that any revenue from national road charges in any form whatsoever should never be required to be used in other European countries to catch up on maintenance in infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-645]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u17	I have a question for the colleague of the VVD. Almost every debate calls for a level playing field to ensure equal opportunities for entrepreneurs and individuals in Europe. How would Mrs Visser want this to be regulated at European level in this case? I assume that she also wants a level playing field in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u18	Taxation is a competence of the national Member States. This also applies to the question of how you want to burden your roads and mobility at all. That is what we are dealing with in Parliament. You and I can differ on how we want to do that, but you and I decide on that. The proposal now before us says that if you do, it must be done on the basis of all these conditions. That's all I care about. We decide whether we want to do this on the basis of time, on the basis of use or on the basis of the colour of a car or train. That's our jurisdiction, and I'd like to keep it. That is a different discussion from that on the technical standards, which you yourself raised. You can easily agree standards with each other, but in what way and under what conditions we want to impose our taxes, we need to discuss them here in Parliament. That is our competence, and I would like to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u19	On the one hand, therefore, you think that the Minister should take the Germans directly to court because they apply their own national competence to charge tolls on their own roads, but on the other hand, you are sabotaged by the attempt that is just underway within Europe to create a level playing field throughout Europe. Then what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u20	No. If you had listened carefully, you would have heard that the German toll was discriminatory. You can take a toll. We should also be able to charge tolls in the Netherlands. We should also be able to impose all kinds of charges on trains. However, we should not make the distinction that Dutch people will have to pay less. Germany does that with this toll for its citizens. That is the big difference between the tolls in Germany and the motion that has just been tabled. The core, the crux, is that Europe says: you will have a power to enter it or not, but if you enter it, you will have to meet all kinds of requirements. I have the lyrics here. You should read it; then you will be frightened by what is in it and what you must meet. We don't want that. That's exactly what I'm up against. We want to be able to decide here in Parliament how we do things when we do business. Tax powers belong to the national Member States and must remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have two questions. In Europe there is a free market and free travel. At present, however, free travel is often hampered by the fact that we have a wide range of different systems in Europe. I know the VVD as a party that strongly advocates freedom of movement in Europe. Does Mrs Visser agree with me that the European Commission's proposals could be an enormous boost to free movement within our Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u22	No. Not in the manner set out in this text, which obliges a Member State to do the European way or not to do it. I believe that a Member State should do so itself. The proposals that are being made to achieve equal standards can certainly give an impetus, but not this. This limits the competence of national parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u23	I very much welcome the opening that Mrs Visser offers in the second part of her answer. That is why I call on her not to table this motion now. We had an extensive AO on the Transport Council which will be on the agenda next week. This package was not known at the time. Let us first discuss this as a Chamber in detail in another AO, before we send the Minister on a mission that we have not yet discussed in detail in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u24	I understand Mr Jetten's appeal, but I would like to tell him that I know the debate on Europe. It often starts with an informal discussion, but Member States are often already hitting picket poles in it. I understand Mr Jetten's appeal, because it is a comprehensive package. In particular, I am taking out the section on competences, but there are also whole pieces dealing with social security and many other matters. So I understand the call. I'll just wait and see the Minister's answer. It is right that Mr Jetten should take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. During the AO, on behalf of D66, I stressed the importance of open protocols and standards to create a level playing field and to give new innovative companies the opportunity to take a place on the European market. I was pleased with the Minister's answers in the AA. I would now like to put forward a motion to support her efforts and encourage her to make an additional plea for this issue at EU level. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of open protocols and standards in charging infrastructure of electric cars serves a public interest;]] [[calls on the government, at EU level, to promote the use of open protocols and standards to enable smart charging and communication between cars and electricity grids,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-646]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u26	Just a brief word on the motion by the CDA and other parties on the German toll. D66 is strongly in favour of paying for the use of the car rather than for its possession. If countries in Europe want to introduce payment according to usage, we want to do so as much as possible according to the same standard. In Germany, a number of things are currently going wrong, leading, among other things, to discrimination against Dutch citizens in the border region. I am very pleased that the Germans have changed their plans on a number of points and that Dutch people in the border region using the provincial road network in Germany are spared, but there is still discrimination for the motorways in Germany. I await the Minister's reply, but the motion tabled can count on the sympathy of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the first motion, by Mr Ronnes, Mrs Visser and Mr Van Aalst in respect of item No. 641, in which I am asked to stop the German toll with all possible legal proceedings. Mr Ronnes spoke of 'parliamentary language' when I said that I was considering taking legal action. I can tell him that was administrative language. As a driver, I think you should always consider whether you actually have grounds to take legal action. So it's not just about the political desire, the emotion and the feeling you have when Germany takes such a step. I think I am on exactly the same line as the majority of the Chamber. However, it is about what is possible, what grounds you have for following a legal procedure. I am pleased that the motion was not formulated in the sense of 'a legal procedure', but that it contained 'all possible legal procedures' in the motion. That gives me the opportunity, as a driver, to come back to the Chamber, if this is not possible, with the announcement that it is not possible. With that remark, I see this motion as a support for policy. Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 642 is about clean vehicles. Europe is an attractive location. She saw all the companies from America leaving for the Netherlands. I believe that our fiscal policy must also be attractive, including bonus policy. We also have discussions about this, but we should not be having them here now. I think that Europe is already an attractive location for the clean car industry. Much is happening here: we are doing a lot to tighten up emissions requirements for vehicles and we are focusing on electrifying the fleet, including through fiscal measures. If I have to call on parties in Europe and the Netherlands to be an attractive location for clean car industry, I see this motion as a support for policy. In the motion in part No. 643 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Jetten, the government is asked to see if we can speed up a European standard for onboard units. That is the technical standard for collecting charges. The proposals referred to were published yesterday. So the authors are faster with reading than I am. That's because of my busy schedule, too. I will look very closely into it in the run-up to the Transport Council, but there will not yet be any substantive discussion at that Council on this point. The proposals will simply be published there. The review of the EETS Directive will look at European electronic toll systems. I still have to study that. I am in favour of a form of standardisation, but not in such a way that you can all be forced to cancel everything you have. So I am in favour of better interoperability, but I still have to look at the path along which that has to be done. I would therefore ask the proposers to hold the motion. I think that I am in favour of this request in terms of content. If the proposers do not wish to hold the motion, I will leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Jetten and I, of course, spent all night studying those documents. I think the Minister's explanation is justified. It really shouldn't be the case that everyone has to cancel everything and there will be huge extra costs, but there is an interest in going one direction. The material goal has been achieved. If the Minister wants us to hold the motion, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u30	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (21501-33), No. 643). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u31	Then I come to the motion on part No. 644 by Mrs Van Tongeren, in which the government is asked to urge the European Commission to take the initiative to use technologies such as safe drive pod in cars and trucks in consultation. I accept this motion or I see it as a policy support, depending on the wishes of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I see you looking. I think I should say that myself. Do you want me to give you a reason first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u32	That's okay if you keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u33	As we know, I am very active in this area. I'm also talking to many market players to see what they can deliver. I also have regular consultations with the Commission and other Member States on road safety and new measures. I would also like to look at this strategy again and work together in it. In addition, I will not advocate a technology as mentioned here, because everything must be open. I am aware that this is one of many that work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u34	I'm looking around to see if anyone has any objection to this. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u35	In my view, Mrs Van Tongeren now has three motions almost in the pocket that have not even been discussed during the AA. I'm gonna have to talk about that for a while, but okay. The motion in part No. Mrs Visser's 645 report deals with the mobility package. That too was not known during the AO. Mrs Visser rightly says that it is clear that Member States should be able to decide for themselves whether to introduce road pricing. That will always be the starting point for me, because it is simply a matter of subsidiarity. The introduction of road pricing is and must remain a national choice. Like the author of the motion, I believe that the marking of income from the possible pricing of roads is and should remain a national decision. From that point of departure, I will also assess the Commission's proposal. At the same time, I think you should look at whether you can standardise and improve interoperability in the end. Only how exactly we are going to do that, how long we will be able to do that without having to intervene in a very complicated way, we still have to discuss that with each other. The proposals have just been published. There is also the proposal to amend the Eurovignette Directive. So I'm going to study it carefully. I support the two points raised in this motion. Then it is about not saying anything about the proceeds and about the fact that it is a national obligation. So I can see this motion as supporting my policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u36	I thank the Minister for that. It is good to keep saying that as the Netherlands. The Minister is right to point out that this is about more. It is also a question of technical standards. The annoying thing is that this point gets a little snowy in the whole. We just have a vignette in the Netherlands. We have a truck vignette. We are obliged to abolish that. So we are forced to introduce an entire system, where you have to meet all kinds of characteristics. This can be seen in conjunction with the observation that there are 60 billion in infrastructure maintenance delays in Europe and that the funds can be used for this. I think it is important to note that this Transport Council is also saying on behalf of the Netherlands that we are not going to pay for maintenance delays in Belgium, Germany or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u37	I can totally agree with that. I will. The question is whether or not we should abolish that vignette in exchange for another model. We just need to have a discussion about that. As soon as our trucks leave the country, they arrive in a country that charges tolls, and in the next country there is another system. Eventually you want to have free movement of goods; so does the VVD. Then, of course, it is useful if you do not too much hinder each other by constantly having to switch on another locker. So I will make sure that our own powers are protected and that the way in which we use our budgets remains a national matter. However, I do find it interesting to discuss standardisation and interoperability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u38	For the record, I think it's pretty normal for you to tune in the technical cabinets. That makes it easier. I am concerned about the way in which the levy is being applied. Suppose the Netherlands decides that it only wants to do this on the basis of time and nothing else. That's up to the Netherlands. Suppose the Netherlands decides to do it on the basis of time and environmental characteristics. That's up to the Netherlands. The unfortunate thing is that it is prescribed that it must be done on the basis of both congestion and environmental pressure and time. It is completely prescribed and Member States are no longer free to do so. That's what we're up against. It's fine if it's made easier, but it prescribes how to do it and with what characteristics. Twelve pages explain exactly how we should do that. But we really think that this is a national competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u39	That's clear. I have said that it is up to the Member States themselves to decide whether and in what form road pricing is to be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u40	I agree with Mrs Visser and the Minister on many points. We are talking about the question of what to bet that money for and whether a Member State should decide at all to opt for a form of pricing. But if the Minister says that the whole motion in part no. 645 the Commission also says that it does not want to open the debate at European level on whether road pricing could be a good basis. It is precisely in the context of the Paris Agreement and in the context of keeping Europe accessible that I think it is quite far-reaching for the Minister to say that the point in the one-to-last paragraph is support for policy and that it will also be her commitment in the Transport Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u41	The last paragraph states: "The Government also requests that any revenue from national road taxes in any form whatsoever should never be required to be used in other European countries to catch up on maintenance delays in infrastructure'. I think Mr Jetten just said that he supported that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u42	I mean the paragraph up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u43	The paragraph above says: "Asks the government to pronounce that"... Wait a minute. I can see it. I have different versions here. That paragraph states: "Asks the government to decide whether or not to introduce road pricing in any form or on any basis (e.g. time, kilometres, etc.) is a national competence.' That is what our subsidiarity principles now state. That's already the case. So that is also a starting point that the government can only defend at the moment. I fully support the idea that you're going to look together for a way to shape that better together, so that you can remove obstacles. But in the end, it is up to a next coalition to decide whether or not it wants to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u44	That's the crux. It is indeed up to another coalition. If the Minister, with this motion in her back pocket, is now going to express himself informally or formally firmly against any form, then that really goes too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u45	There's no other way. There must be rule. I'm also curious to see which new team is coming. Some parties might have been able to speed this up, but as far as this has not yet been achieved, I am standing here with this responsibility. I told you, the motion is policy support. Then I come to the last motion, the motion by Mr Jetten/Van Veldhoven on part No. 646. I also consider this motion to support my policy. I do not want to leave this to my successor, but to carry it out myself as responsible. Mr Jetten asked the government to advocate the use of open protocols and standards to enable smart charging and communication between cars and electricity grids. I am very much in favour of that. With the Minister of EZ, I am committed to promoting the interoperability of the loading infrastructure. Those open protocols are just very good for an acceleration of the transition to electric driving. The cabinet is committed to open protocols, encouraging peer-to-peer applications. You can load anywhere in the Netherlands with one charging pass. It's called e-roaming. We are chairman of the Benelux and are currently investigating the possibility of e-roaming in the Benelux. Mr Kamp has signed a cooperation agreement with a Dutch and German e-mobility platform, making it possible to pay with one pass in Germany, at least in a large part of Germany. So the motion is policy support. This brings me to the end of my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-7.u46	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
