ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the Justice and Security budget. Today the first term of office is on the agenda. I welcome everyone, including the students in the public gallery, and in particular the Minister of Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Welcome to section K. We have 22 speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	I am the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV Group, Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "National police stand like a house," former Minister Opstelten said. "Only the plinths need to be lacquered," said former Chief Bouman. And the mortgage of Rutte II on the house under construction of as much as 500 million euros has been repaid by the extra money. All three false statements. The previous minister wrote to the Chamber: "I recognise that the police face major challenges. Sufficient capacity and resources are crucial for effective police action." I totally agree with him. It is not for nothing that the PVV spends 1 billion euros on the police. Unfortunately, our motion was rejected three weeks ago. Mr. Chairman. The government comes with 267 million. That's a start, but not enough. The 500 million target has not been reversed. And the 267 million are subject to conditions. Firstly, that amount will be paid in 2021. It's still on the balance sheet at the Ministry of Finance. And it is linked to the so-called flexibilisation agenda. Indeed, the coalition agreement states literally that "additional resources are available to increase capacity, subject to the continuation of the flexibilisation agenda and the removal of restrictive frameworks, including sector-specific restrictions on the Working Time Act." How can you invest if you don't know if the money required for that is going your way? Can the Minister assure us that the money does not stick with the Ministry of Finance? And is this forcing the workplace not to impose too much demands in the forthcoming collective agreement negotiations, because otherwise there will be no agents? I would like a reply from the Minister, because the second letter of amendment still contains so many words. One of the elements of the flexibilisation agenda is operational strength, but the operational strength is imposed by politics. Minister Opstelten also called it "the strength agreement with the Chamber." So we're gonna have to do something about that ourselves. The coalition agreement states: "Operational strength is flexibilised." So I ask the Minister: what does this mean? Is the imposed, or the agreed, if you like, 49,802 fte released? Are the aspirants no longer 100% included in this calculation? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The police must be able to go along with the time and social developments. The goal is, as we have heard, a smart, flexible and adaptive organisation. The report by the Kuijken Committee, which appeared last week, shows that there is still a lot of work to be done. The Minister will come with a policy response next spring. Nevertheless, I would like to make one point explicit today. It's the policemen who made sure that the store could stay open during the renovation. The fact that the public's appreciation of the police has not been reduced is therefore largely due to them. I think it is important to mention this in the context of budgetary treatment. But appreciation also remains work in progress. As far as I am concerned, this is a bridge to two issues: first, crime rates and secondly, authority. Mr. Chairman. Crime rates are dropping, but that's not good news. It concerns registered crime, the willingness to report to citizens and the level of clarification. The clearance rate of registered crimes has fallen from just over 27% on average in 2010 to 22% in 2016 over the past six years. I have been discussing this with successive ministers for years. I'm going through with that, especially now that we have a new minister. New round, new opportunities. The police figures depend on reports, but, as I said, the willingness to report remains unabatedly low, on average only 19%. In order to understand the so-called dark number, the Safety Monitor is used, but that is not enough either, because many crimes are not included in the survey. I'm lighting cybercrime over there. Yesterday we saw a police tweet in the Netherlands with the text: 50% of classic crime now has a digital component, so a world to win. As a result of the digital developments, the issue of the dark number and the identification of the scale of crime has been further increased. This is also an important comment on the interpretation of the figures. This is also stated in the Report Crime and Law Enforcement 2016. From the report titled "Victim"? It appears from the Central Bureau of Statistics that respondents often do not specify offences registered with the police in the Safety Monitor survey. As far as I am concerned, these are all reasons for an investigation into a new or an additional measuring instrument. The motion I tabled to last year's budget did not make it because the coalition parties at the time voted against it. Only the VVD voted against of the current coalition parties. My colleagues from the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union were in favour. Thank you for that. I am, of course, waiting for the Minister's answer, but I do intend to retable that motion. Then there's the authority. It is not only those falling figures that undermine confidence, but also the lack of authority. We have seen a few examples of this lately. As far as my group is concerned, it is true that more people are saying that, and this is also clear from the code of conduct, the police should not be allowed to join in fortar meals and mosques as contacts in the enforcement of public order. Nor should it advocate a total ban on fireworks, but it should not act when it was celebrated that Morocco is going to the world football championship. Then we saw a cop who liked it. To the question of the reporter "it is going in the direction of the police," it was answered: of course, so happy are the people. It was confirmed that, this is a quote, there have been deliberately no arrests. And that while a blind horse could almost see that this was no longer a celebration. The only way to preserve authority is to act decisively and decisively where necessary. In that case, use the restraining orders under the modified Football Act, the camera footage, the baton, the police dogs..................................................................................................................................................... What does the Minister think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mrs Helder mentioned the falling crime rates. She missed that very quickly. My question is then: is it right or not that these figures have fallen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	I literally said that. In my group's view, that is not good news. I mentioned the figures. It is a question of registered crime and not of actual crime. That is a very important difference. Registered crime depends on the citizens' reports to the police. I said that was the second part of the figures in my story, which also go down, but that number is still low: 19%. Those numbers are going down. So that's putting reality under the carpet. We will never know exactly what actual crime is, but there is a world of difference between actual crime and registered crime. Registered crime falls if citizens stop reporting, but that is not a positive news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	I asked a simple question, namely whether Mrs Helder was happy with it or not. I don't think she's happy about it. I'm kind of happy about it. We can see across the board that crime rates are falling. We can see across the board that the willingness to report is about the same level. But more importantly, we see that the experienced, perceived safety is also improving, that people think they are safer than they were before. We will see where we can perhaps find each other that the violence against IBTs, against minorities and against Muslims is increasing. Are you prepared to support an action plan by DENK to address this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	You'll have to see the action plan first. Violence is always reprehensible. Violence against anyone is punishable. That's not for nothing in our Code of Criminal Law. If Mr Azarkan comes forward with an action plan on behalf of his group, I am happy to see that. I'll assess the content. Mr Azarkan also mentioned the sense of security among citizens, but that is the Security Monitor, and I also said that not all crimes are included in it. Cybercrime is excluded, as are victimless crimes such as DUIs without an accident. That's a world of difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	Please continue. No, Mr. Azarkan, we have 22 speakers, and if everyone is constantly interrupting, we have a problem. You will soon have the opportunity to ask a question. Proceed, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'll stick to the last point: group liability. The situation that suspects are blaming each other and burdening the D.A. with a probative problem, if you widen it, probably, at least to a large extent, belongs to the past. In the past, I have tabled an own-initiative proposal. I got a lot of questions from colleagues. I've got the answers to that. If the Minister sees anything in it, he may have my proposal as a welcome gift. I'd like to hear his reaction. I'm going to the undermining. The 100 million in the coalition agreement is a fine gesture, but the amount is one-off. Why not a structural undermining fund in which the money taken from criminals is partly deposited? The only defence I have heard so far is that it is not technically possible. I would like to hear a further response to this. Why is the grant to the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security withdrawn? They provide an important part on the front, in the fight against undermining. I saw a tweet by the Minister after a working visit, which was on 22 November last, with the text: "now investing in effectiveness and strength to combat the undermining crime in society'. I would like to hear his reaction on this point. Finally, the Veterinary Forensic Team of veterinarian Monique Verkerk and forensic pathologist Frank van der Goot. Mr Graus has already announced this on several occasions. I promised to help him do that, and I made a promise. All animal agents I have to say by now: task keepers animal welfare... know their fantastic work. The work of the Veterinary Forensic Team provides the necessary evidence, so that animal executioners can be tracked down and even convicted. But they don't get paid. They are entirely dependent on own resources and gifts, and that is totally unjustified. The money is also there, but that goes directly to Utrecht University, whereas Utrecht University doesn't have veterinary pathology and the research is almost ten times as expensive as when the Veterinary Forensic Team would. This has been discussed in many debates, there has even been a hearing and in the coalition agreement a passage has been devoted to it, but the money is still not going to the Veterinary Forensic Team. Is the Minister willing to take care of this? Otherwise, I'm considering a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV, I am going to highlight the area of immigration and asylum. Then, of course, what can we expect from the new cabinet in this area? Worse than Rutte II, of course, can't get any worse at first sight. After all, Rutte II has broken all the immigration and asylum records that exist. Another disastrous pardon scheme has been introduced. Everywhere there was shelter for illegals. A major security problem has been created because thousands of asylum seekers who have been processed have simply lost sight of them, and so on. The foreign policy has been derailed by VVD and PvdA in recent years as never before. Unfortunately, there is absolutely no improvement in the new cabinet, quite the contrary. It was announced today that the cabinet wants to bring another 1,750 extra refugees to the Netherlands. Please note that they are once again on top of the normal asylum influx, which also passes the 30,000 this year. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore to refrain from this madness. We also read today that the cabinet also wants to pick up refugees from Italy because other European countries do not. So the Netherlands continues to be the crazy stallion of Europe. The new cabinet is only just there, but soon showed its true nature. Everything is focused on bringing in even more strangers. Rutte III is also a cabinet of mass immigration. The talk about the Turkey deal has also been exposed. The claim that asylum seekers are sent back to Turkey appears to be nonsense. The Dutch ambassador to Greece, Veldkamp, said that virtually no one is being sent back to Turkey. Greece is another magnet for asylum seekers. Everyone goes to the mainland, so also to the Netherlands. The Prime Minister is now in Africa in the context of migration deals with African countries, but we already know that it is a mission impossible. All reports indicate that these efforts too are doomed to failure. Africans continue to come to Europe massively, also because the Dutch asylum policy does not change at all. Anyone who pronounces the word "asylum" has the right to shelter and a procedure in the Netherlands. Nothing changes at all. Mr. Chairman. The foreign policy is also characterised by the fact that foreigners are constantly placed above the law and they are favoured over ordinary Dutch people. This can be demonstrated by many facts and circumstances, starting with the situation that illegality is not punished in the Netherlands, but is even rewarded. Illegals get bed-bath bread from this cabinet and can also benefit from a pardon scheme. Because the structural children's pardon system continues to exist, which means that almost all asylum seekers' families no longer leave the Netherlands. And yes, you can stop right now. Then the new Secretary of State might as well get over it. For the umpteenth time, you send out the signal that it pays not to follow the rules and that it pays to ignore the legal obligation to leave. The PVV knows no examples of Dutch people who are rewarded when they violate laws or rules. In fact, most of the people here in this Chamber, who are always full of our democratic rule of law, have very little right to speak. We are dealing with the situation that illegal immigrants have often been told by the judge that they are not allowed to be here and that they must leave, but most of this Chamber says: don't take any of those judgments, because we are going to spend tax money on you so that you can stay here for a while longer. Most of this Chamber also says: don't take any of those judgments, because if you ignore them, you can still be eligible for the pardon scheme. The Secretary of State must defend this mischief. I would therefore like to ask him the following questions. Does he really think that this is how the problems are solved? Is that how he thinks he's gonna make sure illegals leave? Does he think that this is the way to develop understanding among ordinary Dutch people, who must comply with the rules, who must take their duties seriously, who cannot ignore judicial decisions and who are certainly not rewarded for them if they do? This is, of course, inexplicable. Therefore, the PVV calls for immediate termination of the structural pardon scheme and a definitive stop at the illegal shelter. Not only close the existing municipal locations for illegal shelters, but also abandon the plans for new locations. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	I look forward to hearing the views of the PVV on access to reception facilities for women affected by domestic violence. At present, this is often a problem for undocumented women. I was wondering whether you wouldn't agree that they should have easier access to those facilities in order to avoid violence in the domestic sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	This question is too broad. Of course there must be help for people in need, but I do not know which category you mean. If you are referring to illegal immigrants, my answer is that this reception should not be in the Netherlands, because the court has ruled that there is no need for residence in the Netherlands. Then the foreigner in question must go home, back to the country of origin. So if your question concerns illegal immigrants, I assume, because I was talking about it, then my answer is: no, illegal immigrants have been told by the judge that they should not be here and we are not going to spend taxpayers' money for shelter. It's as simple as that, because otherwise your illegality rewards all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think I made it quite clear that I was talking about undocumented people, but I conclude that you think that the women who are in such a situation should go on the streets or stay in such a setting and that you are not prepared to help those women to escape violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	The willingness of me doesn't even matter. The judge has taken into account all facts and circumstances in residence proceedings. The judge has looked at all the possibilities with regard to the question of when someone is in need and when someone is not in need. When the judge says "you can't be here," the conclusion is that that necessity doesn't exist. The word "illegal" already says it, but many people don't understand it. Illegality means you can't be in the Netherlands. Illegality means you have an obligation to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	You shouldn't reward people who constantly ignore the obligation to leave. Unfortunately, the cabinet does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	Proceed, Mr. Fritsma. No, Mrs Buitenweg, we're really doing the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	It is the highest time to make this criminal. Illegality must, of course, be punishable. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Illegals are also above the law because it appears that the ban on cracking does not apply to them. In Amsterdam, the action group We Are Here recently cracked a building for the thirtieth time. That is not a slip of the tongue: for the thirtieth time! How on earth is it possible that this squatting of illegals is still not stopped? Why isn't the Cabinet performing? Is it true that not even one has been illegally prosecuted and convicted on the basis of the anti-cracking law? Then why is there this anti-cracking act? The new cabinet, therefore, does nothing at all and simply lets illegal immigrants go their own way. This laxity must be turned into action. Take on the squatters, fasten them and finally turn them off! Mr. Chairman. Strangers are also above the law because they are not dealt with if they cheat. For example, they come in with false documents, lie flight stories together or arrange residence permits with bogus relationships. Misinformation is very often provided in residence procedures. Partly because of this, many residence permits are withdrawn, but if you ask how often a declaration is made, the cabinet does not go beyond 80 times. How is that possible? That's what I want from the Secretary of State. And can the Secretary of State guarantee that from now on standard charges will be made against strangers who are cheating? The structural advantage of foreigners in the Netherlands is also strongly marked by the Dutch who need a social housing. They are constantly told that they can whistle to a home, because status holders from Syria and Eritrea, for example, are given priority in the allocation of these homes. The PVV really wants this to stop. All these social housing that has been given to Syrians must be released by withdrawing their temporary asylum permits. Hundreds of thousands of Syrians return home, because it is safe again. The war is over and reconstruction has begun. It is therefore unnecessary and inexplicable that the approximately 70,000 Syrians who have been admitted to the Netherlands in recent years stay here. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to put an end to the right of residence of these people as a matter of urgency. Helping to rebuild the country is more obvious than staying here in the scarce social housing and in the assistance. Mr. Chairman. Care should also be mentioned. The Dutch have great difficulty paying their own risk, for example, but asylum seekers get all the care for free. For them there is no own risk, no own contribution. Even the care for which Dutch people need to be insured get asylum seekers for free and for nothing. Think of dental care, think of glasses and so on. Also measuring this with two sizes is absolutely untenable. As is well known, the PVV wants a full asylum stop, but as long as it is not there, care for asylum seekers should be limited to medical care. I would also like a response to that. Mr President, I will conclude. In fact, we have seen in a very short time that this cabinet has fallen massively in terms of limiting mass immigration. More refugees are being picked up from abroad to be here, on top of the usual asylum influx. The Turkey deal isn't working. Almost everyone is sent to Europe instead of being sent back to Turkey. Migration deals don't work. It's time the quarter fell into the cabinet. We have to close our own borders. We have to take matters into our own hands to finally stop this mass immigration. By closing their own borders you can stop asylum seekers. What the cabinet does is not only very vague, the coalition agreement excels in vagueness. Nothing at all is arranged in concrete terms and everything that is actually arranged is in the interest of foreigners. As long as this remains so, every word about a strict foreign policy is pure deception. With that deception, the PVV will certainly not let the cabinet get away. I can leave it at that in the first place, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	I see a six here, Mr President, but as far as I'm concerned it may be a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	You have a total of eight. Six for the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	Yes. I might just get over it, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	Whatever you want, I don't care. What do you want? How many minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr President, let me just begin. How is it possible? That is the question that has sounded throughout the Netherlands since last Friday, since the article in de Volkskrant. How on earth is it possible that a Islamic terrorist known to the security services is out in the Netherlands and could even visit a debate evening in Amsterdam where his victims and their relatives met? That you dare to get there means that you will have the space to continue your provocations and threats on foreign territory. In the Netherlands. In our country. And why, as a seasoned Islamic terrorist, wouldn't you be chasing your prey in the Netherlands? After all, nothing is bothering you and no one. Let me just start by asking you a few questions, Mr President. I would like a comprehensive and, above all, oral reply from the Minister tomorrow. Where, how and when did this Islam terrorist enter Europe? When, where and how did he enter the Netherlands? Was that by land, by sea or, for example, by air? What was the last safe country he traveled through? Who else did he come in with and where are the others now? What was his place of residence? For example, did this man have a false EU passport? Did he have a short-stay visa? And by whom and by what country was that issued? Or did he have a residence permit? And what kind of residence permit was that? Is it true that he had false identity papers and if so, what kind of documents were they? Is his residence ground based on these false documents and when were these false documents discovered? Why didn't they intervene immediately? Is this man still in the Netherlands and if not, where is he staying now? Does the Minister even know where he is and where he has been in recent times? How many ISs are known to the services in all European countries to be on the European continent, in the EU, in the Schengen area and, above all, in the Netherlands? I'd like to hear a specific answer to that. Why can these terrorists still travel freely? Do the services have eyes on everyone, despite the free travel through the Schengen area in particular? Has it finally been proved to the Minister that it is relatively easy to enter the Netherlands as an IS terrorist? When were his background known as IS'er and his presence here? Which service was the first to know about his trip to Europe and on to the Netherlands? Who helped the services with that information? When exactly did this information transfer take place? Have any official messages been sent to embassies about this man's journey? Were these opened right away? Or are they stuck in digital mailboxes again? Has any action been taken immediately after the opening of these possible posts? When was this man watched? Why wasn't he arrested and locked up at all? What contacts did he have here and in other countries? In which networks is he active in the Netherlands and internationally? What is known about what he has on his carved fabric of actions within the Islamic State? How could he be present in De Balie debate centre, even at a meeting of his victims? Does the man himself or through his networks have weapons and explosives at his disposal? What do the services and the minister know about his possible terrorist plans and his network? Was he planning to do something in the Netherlands? If so, what? In the meantime, have there been arrests within his networks in the Netherlands and abroad on these matters and if so, how many and when? How did he get out of De Balie? Was the police even aware of his coming to De Balie? Why couldn't the police arrest him? If the police weren't aware, why the hell not? What considerations have been made throughout the process around this man by the services and the minister? Who exactly did these considerations come from? Then who and what finally decided to let him walk free? Then there are a number of general questions, Mr President. How many radical Muslims does the Netherlands count? How many of these are considered dangerous by the services? How many of these are monitored 24/7? In the United Kingdom, for example, the answers to the previous two questions on numbers are well known. Why is this not the case in the Netherlands? Is the number of 20 FTEs that the services need to track one person 24/7? What are the chances of someone being followed 24/7 still disappearing under the radar? Mr. Chairman. If there are so many questions to ask, the country is simply not safe. The security policy can then be declared bankrupt. As an illustration and as a follow-up to my colleague Helder, last week the police in Amsterdam simply admitted that there was no deliberate action against rioting Moroccans. That too is part of the bankruptcy. Mr. Chairman. Since and including the attack on Charlie Hebdo, the European continent has suffered almost 120 Islamic attacks, leading to more than 500 deaths. All ingredients are present to also strike in the Netherlands. We are dealing with returners from the Islamic State, with terrorists born here and with potential terrorists, many of whom have dual nationality. They have one common denominator: the awareness of achieving the objectives of Islam. The integrated approach to jihadism was insufficient, is still inadequate and will remain so as long as this cabinet does not act more stringently and thus does not protect the citizens. I mention, and not for the first time, a number of solutions from the PVV. Firstly, close the borders, say Schengen and let no one from Islamic countries enter the Netherlands again, i.e. ensure an immigration stop. Do not allow extravagants to enter the Netherlands anymore. Denaturize them regardless of any statelessness after denaturalization. Returners who are already in the Netherlands, you must immediately lock up and bring them to justice. After they serve their sentence, you have to denaturalize and deport them. Take on support providers and supporting organisations hard. Freeze their assets and grab them in different ways, according to the rule of law. Encourage voluntary remigration to Islamic countries. Break diplomatic ties with countries that support the jihad. For now, last but not least, enter administrative detention for potential terrorists. Lock them up preemptively. In the past week we have seen several examples in which this would be useful. The former Minister of Security and Justice said this was not necessary. The Council of State says it goes too far. The current minister says he wants legal ground. Mr. Chairman. I'd almost like to yell at it. Here's the legal ground. It's absolutely necessary. It's not going too far. Anyone who does not want to introduce our preventive detention measure simply does not want the Netherlands to become safe. Whoever says it can't, actually means I don't want it. That is what goes too far in the Netherlands. Is the Minister therefore prepared to introduce administrative detention and the other totally logical and necessary measures that I have mentioned? If not, why not? I expect a detailed separate reply from the Minister to any measure we propose. Finally, Mr President. It is up to this cabinet to make the Netherlands a safe country. The Netherlands is now only a safe country for Islam terrorists and not for the citizens. Turn that around, for God's sake! Minister, it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	I think that we all take the threat of terrorism very seriously in this Chamber and that we all want the Netherlands to be protected from this kind of danger. Mr De Graaf asked a number of questions, a lot of questions even. After asking those questions, he said at some point: if you can ask so many questions, then the Netherlands is not a safe country. How can you ask these kinds of questions that you say you want an answer from the Minister, and then, after asking those questions, draw the conclusion that the Netherlands is not a safe country? Then what do you do with the answers to your questions tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	The fact that questions exist means that those questions should have been answered long ago, by the previous cabinet but also by the current cabinet and the new government agreement. And that's just not done. If there are so many questions, you have to ask yourself how safe the Netherlands is. Many people in the Netherlands feel, precisely because all these questions exist, not safe in the Netherlands. Yeah, Islam terrorists do, they can walk around here freely, but not the ordinary citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	That general talk of the VVD that the Netherlands would not be safe, I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	You said VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	Oh, PVV. Mr De Graaf, you are asking a number of very detailed questions about a situation that has recently taken place. That is your right and you will receive an answer from the cabinet tomorrow, if it is right. But what I find annoying is that you use those questions to create a certain image and then based on the fact that you can ask those questions, even if you conclude that the Netherlands is unsafe. Then what are you doing tomorrow with those answers? Because you've already come to your conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	In his question to me, Mr Verhoeven ignores the fact that it has already taken place. That fact already shows that the Netherlands is not safe. Hence the measures I have announced. So Mr Verhoeven can ask questions about the fact that I respond to them with a number of questions, but the combination of the fact that already exists and the questions that I have with me and those that live with a lot of people in the Dutch population already indicates that safety is hanging by a thread.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr President, I have another question for Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	You're a little late, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	But I had to come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	No, it won't take long. You saw Mr. Van Rooijen do that last week. It just ran to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yeah, but he's been training for 40 years. In 1973 he was already Secretary of State. I have to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yes, you're very young.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	In his speech, Mr. De Graaf addresses the legitimate concerns that people have. It wouldn't be my way of bringing the story, but let's just say they're legitimate concerns. As the previous speaker said, we are dealing with dangers that we must safeguard society from. Are there any other forms of danger? I would like to mention right-wing extremists, Pegida, who announces that she is going to take tougher action, mosques being attacked and a terrorist attack that we have had here at a mosque. We haven't had a terrorist attack on Muslims here. How do you look at all these shapes? You're going in so one-sided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	First of all, I am pleased to note that Mr Azarkan says that it is not his way of bringing it, because that is a big difference. Because I'm proud of my own way. In addition, there are many forms of danger in the Netherlands. The services report on this regularly. Last Monday, the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands was released 46. It also describes these forms. Yes, there are many forms of danger in the Netherlands. However, I note that the greatest form of danger comes from the Islamic side. And yes, there was once an attack on a mosque; a fire bomb came down in the front yard and people were tried for it and ended up in the terrorist department. There's been some hard work on that. I also know that almost all Jewish institutions in the Netherlands need to be secured, precisely because of the threat of Islamic terrorism. All forms of danger must be dealt with. However, I note that the greatest threat comes from the Islamic angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	What Mr De Graaf is doing is selective shopping and turning people against each other. In this respect, it is wise that this cabinet should double the punishment for hate-stowing. I think we're really gonna need that, including for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	No, I didn't. Thank you. I call Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Madam President. We don't have much time and there's a lot of work to do. The last twenty years almost always were either a VVD man or a CDA man in charge of this ministry. This has led to a decadent criminal justice chain, a criminal justice chain in which the common Dutchman has hardly any confidence and in which Lady Justitia is no longer blind. It is a ministry that has brought the Dutchman no more, but less security and where injustice is the common denominator. For, Mr President, can you explain to me and to the Netherlands that a burglar who brutally assaults an elderly woman and then rapes her is being sentenced to a prison sentence of only four years? That the suspected murderer of Anne Faber, the repulsive Michael P., Panhuis, who only seven years ago horribly raped two young girls, now, a few years later, could walk free again and thus strike again? That the Pole, who brutally stabbed Corrie van den Brink in the centre of Utrecht, only had to go to jail for three years? Snoeking last week several family members walked out of court after the judge's ruling. The family was shocked by the great difference between the nine-year demand and the three-year sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	Can I conclude from Mr Markuszower's comment on Anne Faber's gruesome case that the PVV wants to co-operate with, among other things, the PvdA and the VVD and, in my opinion, other groups on the possibility of nursing people under duress, potentially throughout their lives, through the TBS system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	The PVV always thinks along. I've already heard your proposal through the media. As you know, the PVV is not really in favour of tbs, because the PVV believes that horrible, scary rapists or perpetrators of violence should go to prison for life; I will come back to that later today in my speech. We do not think TBs protect society sufficiently. Tbs is ultimately a system of a lot of engagement and we do not believe that that is the solution. But, like so many times with the VVD, something is better than nothing. It's a dent in a package of butter, but it's a dent. So I'm definitely gonna think about it. In the end, I hope that you, the VVD, will take part in putting scary rapists and perpetrators of serious violence in prison for life. To this end, I will submit an initiative legislative proposal in the second term. Then we really do business, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	Clear. Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	Then we can keep the very scary, dangerous people inside the cell. What about those tbs? Oh, that's a dent in a pack of butter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u53	I am very happy that Mr Markuszower shares with me that we must protect society in the best way we can against people who want to cause very terrible suffering. I would like to fight this joint battle with you, but we may have a different interpretation of it. Through the system we now know, the TBS system, it is possible to hold on to people who cannot be trusted, not as punishment, but as a measure. I'd like to see us get into that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u54	That was a comment. Proceed, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. I was wondering if you could explain a few things to me. Can you explain to me that the perpetrators who assaulted two young brothers have only been sentenced to a few hours of community service? The brothers walked on King's Day 2016 in Arnhem and were finally kicked and beaten by a large group of men for no reason. Can you explain to me that after only three years of prison, a convicted terrorist is once again released to society? That terrorist had a kalashnikov in his basement, along with 288 cobras to make explosives. He wanted to make a mega-attack in the Netherlands, but in three years he is already free in the Netherlands. Can you explain to me that a 61-year-old man only has to go to jail for eight years for sexual abuse of an 11-year-old girl who, for all intents and purposes, got pregnant with him? Can you explain to me that a horror father only has to spend two years in jail for raping and assaulting his young stepdaughters? I can go on for hours, but I only have a few minutes. These are just a few examples of the past few weeks. They are also examples of a country in which the criminal justice chain of the prosecutors up to and including the judges is dominated by decadent D66 and related dorks. How often do judges impose penalties that are lower than they could have done on the basis of the Code of Criminal Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u56	Can Mr Markuszower tell me in which profession in the Netherlands citizens have the most confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u57	If you're referring to a little investigation that shows that there's a little bit more confidence in judges than in D66 politicians, I'll admit that. That research has also been researched, and it also shows that only a certain group of people have been asked for that research. It hasn't been a good, representative investigation. If people have listened carefully to my input from just now and have heard my examples of all the terrible errors of those D66 sufkezen, judges and prosecutors who are too low demands, who are too low punishments, then they have no confidence in the justice system at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u58	It was a simple question, but a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u59	It wasn't too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u60	Apparently, it's complex. The investigation is from our Central Bureau of Statistics. This study shows that judges are proud to be at the top of the list and that the majority of our population have a great deal of confidence in judges. I would like to ask Mr Markuszower something else. Mr Fritsma has just made a full plea about the case law, and he has always said: listen, when the case law has given a ruling, people must abide by it. You say that when the judges give a ruling, we have no confidence in it at all. Perhaps you could tell me exactly what the PVV's position is on justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u61	I don't see any contradiction in your quote at all. If a judge in the Netherlands makes a ruling, everyone must abide by it. That doesn't mean that that's a good statement; it doesn't always mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u62	I can see that Mr Groothuizen still wants to respond. He may do so later, because we agreed to interrupt in a question and a follow-up question. You will have the opportunity to say something about this later. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u63	So there is something very wrong in the Netherlands. Crime pays in the Netherlands. Criminals don't get punished enough. The victims are in the cold and society is not adequately protected. Given the growing violin in society and the further deterioration of society, the PVV wants guarantees. The PVV wants guarantees that much more work will be done on crime detection, that the Public Prosecutor's Office will not require too low penalties and that judges will not punish so low. That is why we want to amend the Penal Code as soon as possible so that judges can no longer impose too low penalties. This is what the PVV wants as it has been since 2006, but new is my party's proposal to the PVV for violence and sexual offences in particular. We want to double the minimum penalty for these crimes and we want a new ceiling. If you're a creepy, dirty rapist, you're not going to jail for a couple of months, as is happening now, but for at least 20 years. And more importantly, the judge should be able to put you away for life. That is not possible at the moment, and that must change. The law is not of the judges or of the prosecutors, the law is of the people, and with the initiative law that I will offer the Chamber in second term, we take back the people. I hope that this law can be dealt with as a matter of urgency in this Chamber so that we can make our society safe as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. As a result, the people have lost their rights and must therefore be given that right back. That is why we are proposing another structural change, in particular in the establishment of the criminal justice chain. The College of Attorneys-General, Advocates-General, Chief Prosecutors and Judges dealing with criminal law must henceforth be directly elected by the Dutch people. It is my belief that if the aforementioned officials have to win the electorate's mandate four times a year, the search rates will rise, more criminals will be prosecuted by the prosecution, prosecutors will demand higher sentences and will do better to convince judges that criminals belong in prison for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u64	I have a question about the PVV's proposal to elect judges. I think that is a very bad proposal. In my view, this is the axe at the root of the rule of law and completely contrary to the separation of powers and the independence of justice. But what does your proposal look like? If the judges elected according to your wishes would not do what the people want, then the people, or you, should also be able to fire them. Can you tell me a little bit more about how that works? How exactly should the judge, in any case, follow the wishes of those who chose him or her?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u65	I don't think I've talked about firing. I've said they should be elected every four years. And so they can win the electorate's mandate every four years, like an average SP politician. A politician here in the Chamber cannot be dismissed during the four years, but after those four years he can fight again for his new mandate. With the SP, that has led to fewer seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then I don't understand if you're proposing to choose judges, how do you combine that with the proposal to introduce a few sentences for that, with a judge being forced to impose certain penalties. Then there's no freedom of choice, is there? Then there's no need to choose judges, is there? So these proposals don't combine at all? What is it now? Are we going to choose judges now because we would like judges to be punished more severely? Or are we going to introduce minimum sentences now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u67	Not only judges, but also chief prosecutors, including the College of Attorneys-General, also the Advocates-General, not only the judges. But indeed, you are right, not necessarily that there is a contradiction but that the PVV wants guarantees. That is also what I have said. Choosing judges once every four years doesn't strike me as enough. We are the legislator here. Nor should we completely eliminate ourselves as legislators. That is why the minimum penalties, moreover for a number of categories, namely sex crimes and violent crimes. Then there's a whole lot of crime left where the judges would have a little more freedom in your words. By the way, about the separation of powers, I think you should have taken that doctrine differently when you learned it, because it is the balance between the powers and that balance is lost, not necessarily the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u68	I just wanted to ask the representative of the PVV. You're all mentioning horrible things that scare me as a big, sturdy guy sitting on the first bench, and I'm thinking, "Oh, is that all right?" It has also been researched that the Netherlands now belongs to one of the countries where the penal climate is among the strictest in Europe. I've just been looking for that. It is even in the newspaper of awake Netherlands, I hear, that kind of messages from a few years ago. Did you include that in your considerations, and how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u69	Balkenende, in 2002, I think you were already a member of the CDA, had a very different opinion. He felt that minimum penalties should be imposed, and he did not think that the criminal climate in the Netherlands compared with neighbouring countries was so great. For example, a minimum sentence in England is very close to the maximum sentence in the Netherlands, so we are not that big here. Moreover, if all the other countries around us are off the map, that does not mean that we have to act insane. In the Netherlands we have to punish higher because it is necessary in the Netherlands. What they do in other countries, I have no message at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u70	My question was not what Balkenende thought, but what does this representative think?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u71	I answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u72	And if he's taken note of that investigation before he spoke these words here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u73	I would like to say a few words about that. Everyone is always waving around here with investigations, but I think we should analyse that research again. It may well be that the sentence imposed in the Netherlands is not so low at all. I think so, but in your view it may not be so low, especially compared to other European countries. I think, once again, yes, our group does, but if you look at the net time a convict is in prison. First of all, 12,000 criminals in the Netherlands who have been convicted are not in prison. They're in your grade, so there's a lot of convicts in that number who get a relatively long sentence. But they're not being arrested by your government, they're not being tracked down by your government, and they're out there. So they get several months, several years. So how much time are they in prison net? Zero, zero months. So we have to take that figure off already. Another number is that parole. You want to do a little bit of that as a CDA. Again, it's not even a dent in a package of butter, it might not even be half a dent in a pack of butter. Anyway, you're gonna do something about it. If you take that conditional release off again, if you take that discount off, we're really not that high in the Netherlands. I repeat, it does not mean that we should punish too little here in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Markuszower, the interruptions must be short and the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u75	I'm practicing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u76	Well... that's one. Two, if you are going to challenge Members of Parliament once more, when I have agreed with them: one question and a follow-up question, then I will also be forced to give the Member concerned the floor. We have 22 speakers, 3 directors and ample speaking time. I would say: try to take that into account in the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you for the constructive criticism. I'll stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'll hold you to that. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mr President, and congratulations on the way you are chairing the sitting. Let's get back to the minimum. I'm a bit of the type to say: improve the world and start with yourself. When I look at the list of a number of PVV's, I read: Marcel Hernandez, assault and abuse; Hero Brinkman, threat with axe; Hero Brinkman, drunk driving, assault bartender in drunk state; Eric Lucassen, assault, fornication with seventeen-year-olds, threatening to throw hydrochloric acid over a couple,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u81	... fraud involving 40 grand of public money; Markuszower, espionage. Markuszower was arrested for possession of a weapon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u82	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u83	My question is that it gets so lonely at a PVV reunion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u84	And what's the question? Any reaction to this? Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u85	I myself have never been convicted of any criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u86	And then you believe in that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u87	As for the other names you mentioned, not everything you say is true, but fortunately for you there is immunity in the Chamber, so we cannot prosecute you for slander and defamation. Again, not everything you just said is true. What is true is that the law is equal for all. If we live in a Netherlands where there are minimum penalties, they apply to everyone. Then anyone who fails to comply with the laws must be severely condemned. Let that be a warning to everyone, because everyone must behave properly and obey the law. What, of course, is not right, Mr Azarkan, is for you to proclaim lies in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to point out that I consider this way of interrupting to be inappropriate. It's about people who can't defend themselves here. I would like to remind you of the tight line you always follow, Mr President. That's not how we treat each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u90	This comment is addressed to Mr Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u91	To those who mention all these names, so to Mr Azarkan, not to Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u92	Please continue, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg, for your words. Where was I? At the end, Madam President. If we implement all these ideas, hopefully we will see that judges will impose sanctions that are more in line with society's needs. In the second term, I shall table a motion to that effect. Justice will become just again in the Netherlands. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you. I call Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr. Chairman. Security is a prerequisite for living in freedom. I say immediately: there is no such thing as 100% safety. But we can and must do everything we can to ensure that our country is as safe as possible. We do not do that from this Chamber. No, the police do that for us, that's what the D.A.'s office does, that's what our security services do every day. Every day, they face new threats, threats from professional criminals, in the digital world, and the dangers of terrorist groups, for example. It is therefore our public services that face the difficult task of tackling these relatively new forms of crime, such as cyber, terrorism, undermining infiltrations, and revenge pornography, without forgetting old-fashioned, classic crime and crime. This requires first and foremost intensive cooperation between all these different services and, moreover, between private parties where they have the necessary knowledge. It also calls for international cooperation, for example in the field of counter-terrorism. The Ministry of Justice and Security, as we now call it, must do its utmost to protect and strengthen our rule of law. I'm going through five themes: police, undermining, cyber, terrorism and sanctions policy. For all the rest, I would like to refer colleagues who may wish to ask me questions to Mr Azmani who will speak after me on behalf of the VVD. The police. The cabinet invests heavily in the police. That makes sense, because we want the police to be recognizable and accessible. Safety eventually starts on your own street, in your own neighborhood. But the police are being asked a lot more today. The digital highway, I already gave it to you, organized crime that goes way beyond just the corner store. Today's agent must have all kinds of specialist expertise to deal with specialist forms of crime, because without knowledge, without capacity, the Netherlands loses the fight against organised crime. That's why the VVD wants a police force equipped with today's issues. The Minister of Justice, I would say, has started to work quickly and has immediately spent EUR 100 million. In the coalition agreement, however, I would like to point out by this route that there are additional resources for capacity and capacity expansion, but only on condition that, as it says, the flexibilisation agenda is continued and the tighter frameworks are removed. The VVD likes to hear from the Minister how he will ensure that this link is implemented. When we talk about the amount of cops that are capable and capable, that we have available to make them work on the streets, one thing is extremely important: reducing absenteeism. When I was allowed to take my colleague Rutte a bit into the police file, because he is our new spokesperson in that area, he really fell back when I told him that absenteeism is 7%. Rightly that he immediately asked the question: why do we accept that absenteeism is 2% higher within the police than in the rest of the government and even 3% higher than in the Netherlands on average? If I put it through, that means that the police can use 1,000 to 1,500 people more structurally if you can bring the absenteeism to the average level. Imagine what that means for the safety of our country! The VVD therefore urges the Minister to make urgent efforts to reduce this absenteeism, at least to the maximum average of the government. How is he going to ensure that absenteeism falls visibly and is no higher than the average in government within two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr Van Oosten can put this question to the Minister, but I can also bounce the ball back: how will Mr Van Oosten take care of it himself? Because hasn't it been the VVD who's been in charge of this ministry since 2010? It has cut back on the police, cut back on training and police education, cut back on vehicles, cut back on agencies, cut back on the policemen on the streets, cut back on ICT, because that is still a tragedy. A wide range of problems. The cops need to work longer. They still have to run after juvenile gangs over 60 years old. That's all VVD policy. And now he's making a point here that so many cops are sick at home! I sincerely ask him how he can ask this question here with dry eyes. Where does he get the guts, if I may put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u97	Because I have genuine care for the 50,000 police officers who work in the police department and who suffer from a 7% disease rate. This not only means that there are fewer agents on the streets, but also means that the agents who are not sick have to work even harder. I'm worried about that, and I'm addressing the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u98	That's way too easy, isn't it? You can also look in the mirror once and think about what has caused the policy of this department, under the leadership of the VVD, in the workplace. Go talk to the cops! The SP has done research; the results are shocking. Go talk to those cops and you'll hear exactly why the absenteeism is so high. So instead of burdening the Minister with the question... 'Cause that concern, of course we all do. Of course that absenteeism is too high, of course we're worried about those cops, but you can come up with your own plans. It is very easy to ask the Minister for a plan. Come up with a plan yourself. Stop the cuts. Go on and invest a lot. The amount of money that is now being released is really too little. You'll hear that from all the cops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u100	Talk to the unions! Today on the front page of the Volkskrant: thousands of agents are failing in the coming period. There's far too much cutting back on police education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u101	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u102	Take a look in the mirror, I'll tell the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u103	With respect, I don't quite understand what Mr Van Nispen is so concerned about right now. I point out a high disease rate, and I'm worried about that, starting with the cops themselves. And is it so weird that from the responsibility I have, the Minister of Justice and Security, I speak firmly to that? I really think that percentage should be reduced. That will help the Netherlands, and it will help the corps of our agents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u104	I understand very well what Mr Van Nispen is so concerned about. That's actually why I'm standing here. Sick absence and percentage are numbers. You have to look at the context. The context is that that corps has been cut off for years while the VVD was at the helm. We can indeed read today in the Volkskrant that a lot of agents are pouring out because of their age: 14,000 in seven years. We all saw it coming. That hole needs to be filled, out front. In the workplace there are too few thanks to the VVD's policy. How is Mr Van Oosten going to ensure that not all of this can be done at the front, and we now know what is being solved so that the workload, and hence the absenteeism, goes down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u105	First of all, in line with the previous period, there is investment in the police. The coalition agreement again contains substantial investments for the police and for the quality and capacity of the police. That's the first step. But besides that, is it so strange that if we are a national police force, where we all have the ultimate goal that the police are going to do even better than they already do, we are also bringing the organisation to a level that reduces absenteeism? There is nothing strange about calling for this and calling on the Minister to consult with the police officer on how to organise it. Surely we cannot wait and say 'the 7% is all very bad' and see the same thing next year? No, I want that changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u106	This is typically a case of mopping with the tap open. How are we gonna organize this? You have to make sure that the police also have the means to reduce absenteeism. That's something that's been ignored all the time. Every time it is said: extra money is added. The fact of the matter is that the money that has been added is far from getting close to the 500 million that Rutte II imposed on the police while keeping the store open. Read: work pressure, result: absenteeism. In the front, the VVD didn't do anything. You can't stand up and argue for limiting absenteeism. I don't like that for all the cops on the street. That's not a question chairman, it's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u107	But I'd like to respond to that. You put words in my mouth like I wouldn't notice the agents who are sick and who wouldn't notice the fact that these agents are working hard every day. I would like to remind Mrs Helder that I started with that. That's what I started. But precisely because I think that, I make no secret that as a member of this Parliament, even a member of the coalition, the Minister of Justice and Security, I speak firmly in favour of reducing the disease rate, precisely because of the police. How's he gonna do that? I'm not gonna sit in the secretary's business chair. That's why we hired a minister. That's how it works in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u108	I would like to admit that I think Mr Van Oosten is very genuinely concerned about the workload and thinks that police officers do good work and work hard. But I do see a big comparison with last week when we discussed the prison system, which also has to do with an enormous workload of staff and with outflow. My question to Mr Van Oosten is: you look to the Minister for the solution, but what is your analysis? What makes you think, after all these years of experience here, that the workload and absenteeism are so high with the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u109	The analysis is that we ask the police every day to work very hard. We're taking the police into the reform and creation of a national police force. The VVD believes in that, and I'm defending it. That also means putting pressure on the organization, that there's a reorganisation going on. That does not mean that we have to accept that absenteeism is 7%. Why? Why? I don't accept that. I really think it is time for the Minister to work actively to bring that absenteeism back, precisely for the sake of the agents themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u110	Indeed, I do not accept that great absenteeism either, but I think that you are too easily ignoring the fact that there is not only a reorganisation, but that we may also have given too little resources to the police, that we are giving them too little resources to do good work and that there may be a culture that includes absenteeism. I don't see that whole analysis. I see a kind of lightness of "gosh, there's a problem, let's fix it," but an idea of how that happened would have been appropriate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u111	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u112	I don't really hear a question in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u113	I would like to work with my coalition partners over the next few years to reduce absenteeism, but I have to say to the honourable Member of the VVD that I think it is also very significant for the 5,400 policemen who are now sick at home, that the VVD also says how that actually happened. Let's be clear about this. Of course, this has to do with the reorganisation and with all the cuts, which have put enormous pressure on the organisation and on the people. I would like to ask Mr Van Oosten to just say so. That gives room for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u114	I have just made it quite clear to Mrs Buitenweg that I understand and do not close my eyes to the fact that we have put a lot of work into forming the national police force within the police force. So I understand that that raises a lot of questions and concerns with the cops. But precisely for the sake of those same agents, I want us to make the battle to bring down the absenteeism, because I believe that the officer himself is not happy about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u115	Good point, but is Mr Van Oosten also aware that in certain areas of the police, for example, there are services centres, which we wanted to centralise, where there is 10%, up to 30% absenteeism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u116	If so, that is all the more reason to put the Minister to work on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u117	I'd like that. I would like to add: how do we guard our good intentions and calls somewhere in countries? 'Cause it's just a call that won't get us there. So I would like to express your concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u118	I just finished that one. Or no, I hadn't gotten to it yet; then I'll do it now. I ask the Minister: how is he going to bring about a visible decline in absenteeism and not higher than the average in government within two years? I'd like a response. It's our move to guard that. That's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more comment about the general telephone number of the police and then round off the block of "police." It seems to be the case that sometimes you first hear a band that reports what it costs and how long it lasts. Could the Minister take a look at that? Because if you want to call the police, you also want to be heard soon. This also fits with the recognizability and accessibility. I'm getting to the point of undermining. It is an unprecedented frustration for a lot of people in our country that criminals continue to benefit too long, too often and too much from their crimes. I know you can't pick a bald chicken, but these chickens aren't bald enough feathers. Not for nothing has undermining been a point that has been brought up by the VVD over and over again for years. There's going to be a 100 million-dollar fund now. I would like to hear from the Minister that this is also having multi-annual effects, so that we actually take away the only motivation of criminals, those criminal profits. I would like to receive a plan of action for that. I would now like to take you to a number of urgent issues that really play at the point of undermining. I would like to take you to the Beijerlandslaan in Rotterdam. I was allowed to visit there and was taken by the municipality, police officers, social workers and so on. The Beijerlandslaan is located in the Hillesluis district in Rotterdam-Zuid. I came there and on the eye I thought: cozy shopping street, all nice signs and so on. But appearances are just deceiving. Appearances are deceiving. You rarely see so many money exchange offices in one street. The shop density of jewelry stores is unprecedented. There's a lot of bridal fashion cases like getting married there all day. That's all the more strange when we realize what neighborhood we're in. This is a district where the average annual income is €17,000. $17,000, how much money do you have left to buy a lot of jewelry? How much money do you have left to buy expensive dresses? How much money do people with that kind of income keep the people who make that money working hard for them to send through all those money exchange offices? They can't make a living with that, can they? So I have no choice but to see the undermining on the Beijerlandslaan in Rotterdam-Zuid. You see it. And you know what I hate about that? The boys and girls who grow up there don't know any better than that in the morning criminal jobs are being distributed by old-fashioned couplers. It's called exhalers. So they take out the containers in the port of Rotterdam and know exactly where the cocaine is smuggled. The Seaport Police knew how to tell me that this would involve 200 exhalers every day. Around that there is a group of 1,000 men, still in the Hillesluis district, Beijerlandslaan. I'm just talking about that part. 1,000 people around that facilitate that. Those are people of all kinds: car rental companies, service providers, landlords of buildings, lawyers perhaps as well. They're all people who make big money with bad money, with bad business. That circle must be broken. We really owe that to the children who grow up around and in the Hillesluis district in Rotterdam-Zuid. We can't tolerate that. That is why I would like to challenge both directors on this point and put a number of points to them. In fact, I am also asking where this issue lies. If potentially undermining parties report to rent a property, I want alarm bells ringing. That's why I want a so-called traffic light model. I think I need to explain what that means. This means that the owner of a building in a street like the Beijerlandslaan, of the municipality, who knows the background of the people involved, must be able to receive a signal to know who they are dealing with. I do not need to share all kinds of personal data at all, but I would like the municipality to be given the opportunity to give the green light which means: go ahead, it is your own market decision; or a red light: I would advise you to detect again properly and critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u121	The government, of course, has a duty to tackle this undermining, but so does local politics. Is it not, I ask Mr Van Oosten of the VVD, that his party, the VVD, has been in the college in Rotterdam for years? What does his party do about these anti-undermining activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u122	I look very secretly at the former alderman of the VVD who is now sitting in another bench. But if I am correct, the VVD has, unfortunately, not been in Rotterdam's college during the past period. That does not alter the fact that the VVD from the council............................................................................................................................................................ But I fly it from my responsibility as a member of the House of Representatives. I visited the Beijerlandslaan, but I use it as an example. Mrs Van Toorenburg has regularly raised Brabant's point in this Chamber and other members have moved on to other parts of the country. Undermining is really screwed up in our society. That's gotta be broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mr President, I shall continue. When it comes to the traffic lights model, the privacy rules must not lead only to the criminals taking advantage of it, because I really wonder, when I see those 8, 9, 10-year-olds walking in that Beijerlandlaan, what they have to do with those rules if they stand in the way of giving their parents, their teachers, the district agent, the municipal officials a potentially effective means of reducing those wrong examples that they face every day. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention two or three other examples which I would like to put down to the directors in order to get to work really quickly. I understand that, remarkably, there is no national registration of permits withdrawn by mayors. For example, the mayor of the municipality of X withdraws a hospitality permit because illegal activities are detected there. If the mayor of the City of Y or his staff does not know that, the problem can simply shift. In other words, that has to be different. Can the Minister make sure that that gets picked up and that that gets insightful? The Bibob National Bureau gives a so-called "no danger" opinion. I want this 'no danger' opinion to include the question of whether someone has been able to demonstrate to a sufficient extent how he actually obtained such a large sum of money. Why should large sums of money not have a standard responsibility in order to be eligible for a declaration of no objection? There is a chance that this is criminal money. If I were asked, I could say: I have received an inheritance, or: I have worked hard and spared. But I can show quite simply how I got a large sum of money into my bank account. I wish I had it, by the way. Why isn't that put there by default?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u125	The colleague of the VVD rightly states that there should be an undermining law in which these things are regulated to an important extent, so that information can be exchanged and decisions can be linked, because the Bibob Act is amended. But before that, he talked about withdrawal. I want to hear from the VVD whether we should make an extra blow in that. What the port of Rotterdam has been through! A criminal would've done all kinds of shit on a boat. That boat was taken and given to a school. Shouldn't we call on this cabinet to be as creative as possible to make this kind of thing possible: to give it back to the people it concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u126	I can only agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg, I can only agree with her. In fact, I wanted to go from the Beijerlandslaan to the Reeuwijkse Plassen. I think there are a lot of things there that might be very attractive to give back to society along that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u127	I'm going to listen to that with interest, because I think that's where the crux is. If, in the eyes of citizens, things are taken away and returned to society, I think we can give the blows of mercy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u129	I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. I visited the Beijerlandslaan and now I'm going to the Reeuwijkse Plassen. I have not been there, but I have received information about it. I'm just freaked out. There may be someone living in a very expensive house with a sloop in front of the door, a swimming pool in the garden, expensive sports cars and so on, with whom the CJIB has concluded a payment arrangement of tens of thousands of euros per month to pay apparently established mistake money. I really do not understand, I really do not understand that a payment arrangement should be agreed with such a person at all. If it has been established that the money is wrong, or else you won't come to such an arrangement, why don't our public services just go in there? Why don't they actually take everything from there, up to the last photo frames to sell it at auction or give it back to society, or what do I know? I refer to Mrs Van Toorenburg's format. Let the Minister explain it to me. Isn't it true that I have a serious question that by settling with such a person, knowing that there is more money, the government actually facilitates that new crimes can be financed with the other assets that are not taken away? Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to cyber. I've already pointed out the subject. It's a problem today and it's a problem that's growing. I understand that by 2020 50% of crime will be digital. This demonstrates the importance of the Computer Crime Act III. That's a terrible term, by the way, but what's the law about? About the possibility for our public services to infiltrate the dark web, for example, where all this misery is sold, where weapons are sold illegally, where child pornography is traded, and so on. The coalition agreement sets out the ambition to increase digital security, including by attracting detectives. How will the Minister achieve this objective? How does the Minister intend to increase the level of detection and resolution in relation to cybercrime? That is now 6% and 8% respectively. What are the ambitions in this area? Does the Minister have an adequate picture of what competences are needed for successful cyber detectives? Does he also know how he can bind people with these competences to the police? I would also like to comment on this point. The VVD believes that tracking cybercriminals should be a top priority. Catching the crook who sneaks in through the window and steals your wallet is, of course, unabatedly important, but catching the criminal who steals entire bank accounts through computers and smartphones is crucial. And I'm not even talking about those terrorists who can attack our digital infrastructure and therefore cripple public life. Cybersecurity professors have recently indicated their fear of a massive brain drain apology for English cybersecurity, because resources in this area are severely fragmented in our country. That lack of pooling of resources, according to them, leads to almost all the good-looking headlines in this area leaving the Netherlands, I understand in particular to Germany, where targeted research money in the field of cybersecurity is being released and bundled. My colleagues Mr Rutte, I have just mentioned him as well, and Thielen have recently asked questions about this to the Ministers of Education and EZ, but does the Minister of Justice, as the coordinating minister of cybersecurity, want to sit down with the ministers of these ministries in the short term to see how we keep that knowledge in our country and fill it out as best as possible? Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of terrorism, not the least. It is good to see that this cabinet also shows decisiveness in tackling terrorism and has laid down good ambitions in the government agreement, such as DNA investigations, longer pre-trial detention and criminalisation of intentional residence in jihadist territory. Of course, the VVD supports these measures, but let me be honest with you: there are still concerns. For example, I like to hear about the list of salafistic organizations the VVD has been asking for for some time. I also want to know what's going on with the possible modification of the right of change for imams. How are we going to prevent figures from abusing the legal protection of a clergyman, in this case the imam? I would also like to make a comment about that potential jihadist who could have attended a meeting in De Balie in Amsterdam. Yes, I know only from the media, but I hear from the media that the minister has indicated that a criminal title would be missing to arrest this man. Surely that makes me think, because how can we now apprehend non-Dutch suspects of terrorist offences committed abroad? Is our legislation sufficiently structured on this? Isn't it time to look at these types with a slightly broader criminal perspective? Take that terrorist who would walk free. I read in the same newspaper that the man travels on a fake passport. Without wishing to embarrass the Minister in order to give him more insight into this individual case, I ask him whether travelling on an illegal passport in itself is not a legal basis in itself. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u130	The Minister may, of course, be embarrassed, because it is up to a parliamentarians to control him and perhaps embarrass him. In order to take an advance in order not to do so, the position of the parliamentarians is immediately weakened. I would advise Mr Van Oosten, through you, Mr President, not to do so. By the way "That's also very ugly English..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u131	You say it yourself, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yes. I have just heard Mr Van Oosten make an appeal from his heart to the government to introduce administrative detention. Now there is an initiative proposal from the PVV. Can I assume that Mr Van Oosten and his party will support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u133	No, no, not like that. Mr De Graaf has also read the coalition agreement very critically. I put down sharp questions, which is my job, and I expect a good answer from the Minister. Mr De Graaf has also read in the coalition agreement that no one, not even the VVD, is running away from repressive measures, but they must be related to the legislation we have in this country. We must continue to have a good discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u134	I now note that Mr Van Oosten is using great words, as the VVD always does in the press or here in the Chamber, but ultimately does not want anything. I have to conclude that the VVD does not want to make the Netherlands safer in this case. Mr Van Oosten is screaming for legal grounds, like his minister in the cabinet, but if there is then a good proposal, he refuses to support it. I have to conclude that the VVD does not want to make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u135	The VVD calls for legal grounds within the borders of the rule of law. I should like to remind Mr De Graaf that many measures are being taken and have been taken. That was also the case in the previous period. Think of taking away Dutch citizenship, administrative measures and criminalising the preparation of terrorist acts. Mr President, I shall continue. I came to... I think I came to page 9. But that doesn't mean anything to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u136	Depends on how many pages you have!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u137	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. Sanction policy. That's my last block. Then I have one final question about various varieties, but first I have a policy of sanctions. A man who rapes a minor, a man who forces minors to produce child pornography, the gruesome case of Anne Faber, which my colleague Markuszower has already talked about. These are examples in which the suspect was not ultimately imposed on TBs. It is the judge's freedom to determine that, but I do not rule out the fact that someone refused to cooperate in an investigation by the Pieter Baan Centre and that it was not enough to determine whether the person concerned is suffering from a behavioural disorder and, if so, for which you should treat him. Mr. Chairman. At once I say again that I do not have the illusion that we can prevent everything, but I dare to observe with caution that the system we have now is not necessarily working optimally either. I simply believe that it should not be possible for life-threatening people to return to society untreated after serving a prison sentence and make new victims there. That is why I think it should be possible for a judge who, in the case of a refusal of a suspect, cannot immediately determine whether someone needs TBs to do so, to be able to do so after two years. Mr Kuik had approached me on exactly this issue. It will undoubtedly go into this in more detail in its text, and I would just like to give it my wholehearted support. I would like nothing more than for the Minister to take up the gauntlet and work it out, because we must constantly be prepared to take steps in our criminal justice system in such a way that the horrific suffering can be avoided in the future. Legal obstacles must then be provided for a solution and not regarded as insurmountable thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u138	Does this mean that Mr Van Oosten would like to give serious consideration to the CDA's earlier proposal to establish a two-stage structure? Then you first look at what someone has done on the basis of the evidence, and in the case of very serious crimes, you only decide later what to do with the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u139	I cannot fully see how the two-stage structure that Mrs Van Toorenburg is bringing forward would work on such a situation. I understand that such a structure also exists abroad in different variations. But if this is what I'm talking about with this renegade suspect, there I'm talking about how you can contribute to the end goal of getting someone not only punished but treated, so that he doesn't do it again, then I think it would be stupid for me to ignore it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u140	I would ask Mr Van Oosten for the sake of time, because then I do not have to ask Mrs Kuik: through Mr Van Oosten can I ask the cabinet to look at the very large research that we have recently received on this two-stage structure? That's where I think the handle is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u141	I would like to put the question to the Minister where this can have added value. I'll keep the end goal in mind. I do not care at all what it should ultimately be in the legal sense. I'm making a move now. I have given this a lot of thought, and Mr Kuik has given it a lot of thought, but ultimately it's about getting people punished, and that's about retaliation, but people are being treated, and we know they've been treated where we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u142	It is a good thing that Mr Van Oosten is inciting this debate. I think it is very good that, as a Chamber, we are thinking about solving the problems that exist, although there are never any guarantees. I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, because if we make this cut, I think that raises a number of fundamental questions. I wonder how you see that. Are you saying that the judge isn't imposing any punishment, but that's waiting for us to move on a few years and find out more? Are you saying the judge's just gonna punish us and we're gonna talk about the TBs later? And what consequences does that have for that previously imposed punishment? How do you see that? Explain that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u143	I have in mind that the judge will impose a penalty, but at the time he gives that judgment, he has not been able to take sufficient account of the question of whether the person concerned has a disorder, because he did not want to cooperate. That could lead a judge to say he can't impose TBs. I therefore believe that this measure can be imposed in addition to the punishment after you have observed someone for a period of time and have seen in detention what kind of person he actually is. Such a TBS measure should then still be possible. That's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u144	In the present case, of course, this is often the case: we find that someone is partially insanityable and needs TBs; therefore, he gets a lower prison sentence in combination with TBs. In Mr Van Oosten's example, that cut is not to be made. Someone might get the full pound, 15 years. Does Mr Van Oosten say that, if we talk about the TBs a few years later, we will have to talk about that level of punishment again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u145	I think you can hear me saying exactly what I want. The problem now is that a judge doesn't always know if someone has such a disorder because the person concerned doesn't cooperate with it, while you may find at some point in detention that someone has such a disorder, or at least that experts will then be able to determine it. All I want, then, is that we do not ignore the issue and do not say: well, it has already been done; it has now become a punishment and let go. Then the person concerned will not receive the treatment he would have received under the TBS system. That's the point. That's all I care about: that you make sure that people are not only punished, but that people who do this kind of horrible thing that you know will come out again have been treated as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u146	This is a subject that we need to discuss a little more deeply, because it has a lot of hooks and eyes. It is indeed important that we bear in mind where suspects or convicted persons are suffering from mental disorders in order to prevent them from returning to society. In any case, it is a good thing that the VVD pays more attention to treatment rather than just repression. I can see another problem. At present, TBs can only be imposed on suspects who had a mental disorder at the time of committing it. That is, of course, more difficult, because when you see it during detention, you do not know whether it was at the time of the act. I am certainly not against it, because I think it is important to see where we can intervene better, but I do feel that it is still a little under-thought-out at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u147	I do not deny that the point needs to be further worked out, nor do I run away from it at all. It's a complex legal issue, but I don't want to ignore it either. The easiest way would have been: I ignore it because it needs to be further worked out. So I'm not gonna do that. Let me give you the example of Mrs Buitenweg, the situation in which you find at a later stage that someone has a disorder that may also relate to the crime committed by the person concerned. I would like nothing more than for him to be treated for that. If you find that only later and you have not been able to identify it earlier because the person concerned refused to cooperate, something is not right in the system, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u148	It is indeed important that we make more work of people who do not participate in TBs. Moreover, it is now the case, and I would like to stress this, that judges can make a stand-alone judgment, but that they often hesitate to do so. I think that we should name it, because otherwise there are judges who think that they cannot, but it is allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u149	It is not a question, but I fully endorse it. I think it is very valuable that we in this Chamber, several colleagues, should now make specific reference to this point TBs. It is only valuable to emphasise specifically that there is no obstacle for a judge to do so. I can see why a judge would be happy to have some report. That is why I tabled this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u150	The SGP Group also supports the principle that refusing to cooperate in an investigation should not be rewarding for a suspect and that there should also be a possibility of imposing TBs without cooperating in an investigation. We support this question to the government. In other words, how can it be done by tightening up the law or by providing better support for judges? I fully agree with that, but I would like to put one more concern to Mr Van Oosten and ask him if he recognizes it and what his reaction is to it. There's a new TBs law in the First Chamber now. It has been there for a while, because other legislation was also being looked at. We see this pattern more often in recent years, that the First Chamber says: wait a minute, there is still some movement. Do you agree with me that this legislation should simply go through and that our discussions here should not be a reason to put the good that already exists back on the road again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u151	I can only endorse this. Mr Van der Staaij points the finger at the sore spot. I understand that the Forensic Care Act will be dealt with in the Upper Chamber in January. I can only hope that it will be adopted and that it will not in any case have any further delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u153	I would like to make two further comments in the context of sanctions. The first one following a broadcast from Nieuwsuur last night. I have seen a written response by the Minister for Legal Protection over the fact that prison staff are very concerned about the fact that those concerned in the Ebi Vught do not return to society insufficiently treated. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister how he views this issue and how he continues to address it. The limitation period for the enforcement of penalties is also in line with the sanction and, as far as I am concerned, we are simply abolishing it. I think I have said everything I can and want to say about that, because I just don't get it. I do not understand why we have an article in our code that makes it possible for someone who has been convicted of something to have deliberately committed the error and stays out of the sight of the government long enough if they get a premium that the sentence can no longer be enforced. That's a weird system, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u154	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u155	I did, but I saw Mrs. Buitenweg. I already looked for her, so I held my breath. Then I come to a completely different theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u156	Okay, I'll give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u157	Of course, I'm very happy that Mr. Van Oosten is breathless when he sees me. First of all, he wondered why there was this limitation period rule. I think it is indeed a good thing that this does not apply to a large number of crimes. I also think that we should bear in mind that the solution rate is relatively low at the moment and that the lead times are often quite long. We will have to do something about that; that is the first priority for me. The question I would like to put to Mr van Oosten is whether lifting the limitation period will apply to all crimes, for example, to a fight in a café.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u158	Before Mrs Buitenweg gives me new ideas again, let me just say for the record that I am not talking about the statute of limitations of being able to prosecute. That is an interesting issue, by the way. We can think again about what should be better in order not to be able to be tried. I am talking about the limitation period for the enforcement of penalties. For example, you have been convicted of destroying the interior of a café or something like that; that is the example of Mrs Buitenweg that I thought I heard. Suppose you've been convicted of that and been punished; you've been abroad long enough, you've left or you're in a secret place. Then it can't be said at the end of the journey: well, a judge said you were wrong, but you can't be punished anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u159	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mr. Chairman. On the other point, I shall go on with Mrs Buitenweg. 'Cause she was positive about it, that's how I had the idea. The last point is something quite different. The VVD is pleased that the government is aware of the new problems of today. It is therefore also good that the government agreement explicitly states that there will be better protection of privacy between people. With the current technical means, everyone can secretly film each other. You can put images on the internet and so everyone can be recognized. And I am talking not only about that very serious point of revenge porn, but also about a lot of other systems where people's privacy can be under pressure, precisely because of that filming, tracking and revealing the lives of others. Now that I'm reading this: I believe there's a movie that's called. Mr Koopmans of the VVD has taken a nice initiative and organised a round table on this subject which will take place shortly. There, all kinds of experts will bring forward all kinds of visions and interesting things. My question to the Minister for Legal Protection is: how is he going to work out this passage from the coalition agreement? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u161	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. Before you leave, Mr Van Nispen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u162	I have not heard Mr van Oosten from the VVD about one of the foundations of our rule of law, namely access to justice. He had only 28 minutes of speaking time, so he may not have had enough time. That is why I shall ask him a question. I have listed the measures taken since 2010 to reduce the amount of subsidised legal aid. As you can see, the personal contribution for those seeking justice has only gone up and the compensation for a social attorney has only gone down. From 2010 onwards, there are more than 20 measures in a row. My question to the VVD is: where does this balding of social law stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr Van Nispen has also read in the coalition agreement that no jurisdiction is excluded in this respect. I would like to remind Mr Van Nispen that there are hardly any countries in the world in which the system of legal aid is as uniquely organised as in the Netherlands. There will be many situations in which people who are unlucky enough to be born in another country are not able to sue at the expense of the taxpayer, but a country that can be said to have a beautiful western democracy. I think this is a very good thing and I will fight for it until the last time, but I also have an eye for the pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u164	This is not an answer to the question at all. This is a VVD stick horse. Mr van Oosten knows very well that systems cannot be compared. We've talked about that a lot. I'd like to explain that to him again, but my question was: where does this balding of social law stop? In the coalition agreement it was agreed that further cuts would be made. There may not be a jurisdiction ruled out, but those cuts just go on. See the response to the Van der Meer Committee. She says that the points have not been connected for years; there is twenty years of overdue maintenance. It's a big problem. You're actually on a warpath against the law. Is it really a good thing that a lot of social lawyers have to stop their practice because it's difficult for the government, all those social lawyers who stand up for those who seek justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u165	There is a kind of assumption in that question, namely, a., that it is and, b., that I am rolling out some sort of agenda. I don't recognize that. The Minister wrote a letter to the Van der Meer Committee a few days ago, perhaps yesterday, but I don't remember exactly. That study would show that the money is not sufficient in this way. Of course, we are going to talk about this, but I have also read that the Minister is challenging parties to work with each other and to continue to think about how to shape this in a good way. It seems to me that we have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u166	In recent years I have heard Mr Van Oosten every year about the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but not anymore. Did he completely give up on that fight? Does he just think of it as a D66 point and let it go, or is there any fighting left with Mr Van Oosten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u167	We have talked very firmly about this, in the spirit of solutions. My objection was mainly in losing the so-called "excuse me" that I use a legal term "excuse me" as an opportunity principle. That was also the objection of others, but the fellow Members who are concerned about this should say so themselves. We're gonna discuss it with each other. By the way, the word "no" has fallen away in the agreement. Of course, that's a mistake. You know what I mean. That aspect must be taken into account by the Minister. That also has an effect on the time frame within which you can think of such an EOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u168	That word "none" is kind of interesting. The government agreement states that accession will take place under the condition that this undermines the Dutch Public Prosecutor's principle of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u169	So none.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u170	So Mr Van Oosten is saying the opposite now, namely that the word 'no' belongs to the word 'no'. I don't see D66 looking worried either. At least that is an important improvement in the coalition agreement today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have a question about the accessibility of the legal system, which Mr Van Oosten talked about. A 2014 WODC investigation has shown that Spain, France and Luxembourg have no registry rights at all, to start with that part. The Netherlands, together with Estonia, is one of the countries with the highest registry fees. How does this relate to your ruling that the Netherlands belongs to the countries where the legal system is best accessible to citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u172	Fine, because the question of the level of registry rights is a different matter from the question of legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u173	But I think Mr Van Nispen has just said that cuts have been made across the board. That's what happened. We read in a wonderful interview with the previous ruler, Mr. Teeven, that he did this on purpose. He said: if we make sure that they have poor welfare, crime also decreases; we couldn't punish them harder, because the coalition companion, the PvdA didn't want minimum punishment. Has it not been a policy of reducing the accessibility of the legal system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u174	I shall leave Mr Teeven's remarks to be taken care of. I have decided not to interfere too much with Mr Bitch's remarks in this area. I am concerned that legal aid should remain open and well organised. I should like to remind Mr Van Nispen that there is virtually no country in the world that has a more unique system in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u175	We come from times of little money and we go to times of a little more money. We have not for nothing asked the Van der Meer Committee to come up with an independent report on the future of legal aid. She concludes that you will have to do more if you want to maintain the beautiful system that Mr Van Oosten also refers to. I would like to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u176	The fact that you're asking someone for an independent report doesn't mean you're necessarily in agreement with the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u177	Seriously, this is gonna open my mouth. Then why are you asking for a report? If you ask for an independent investigation, this point is important and stands for access to justice, especially for people who have less money, I wonder why you're dealing with it this way. What is the Minister's letter worth if it is said that one has to find out one another? That's a ball-ball game of moving forward and not taking the problem seriously, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u178	I'm just looking at it differently. Legal aid is a very important matter. We spend a lot of money on it and we are unique in it. The Van der Meer Committee considers that the funds currently available for this purpose are insufficient. The Minister has written a letter on this subject. Let us ask him what he thinks of that, and I am sure that your contribution will include it, in order to get some further clarification on that letter. I read that letter as very positive, namely that the Minister says: I am going to work with the organisations, in particular the Bar Association, to see if we can set it up so that we can make the work of the lawyer possible. That's not so much because of the lawyers I'm willing to go on with, but because of the judge. The only drive I have in this file is to keep that seeker well served.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mrs. Buitenweg, this is your fifth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u180	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u181	Really. So you need to be a little reluctant in your interruptions, or else I'm gonna set a maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u182	I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u183	No, neither do I, but well, ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u184	I have a question, and Mr Van Oosten provoked it a little bit by saying: we are going to see what we can do with the money we have. Is his idea now to affect some of the principles behind the order? At the moment, you get 1 point per hour and 1,200 hours means a reasonable income. The Van der Meer Committee says that this principle cannot be met with that money. Then there are two possibilities. Either you want to undermine the principles or you don't believe the Van der Meer Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u185	When we talk about principles of legal aid, aren't you going to talk about points? The principle of the system of legal aid is that the seeker is served and has access to the court if the seeker himself has no or insufficient income. That is the principle of legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u186	Let us then talk about starting points, but I note that you consider it possible to call them all into question. And that was not the commission to the Van der Meer Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u187	I think Mrs. Kuik just put it very well. We have asked the Van der Meer Committee for an independent investigation, an independent report. Well, that's what we got, and that's gonna get a sequel in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Van Oosten. Before I give the floor to Mr Azmani, I shall suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mr. Chairman. What else do we stand for when we look back at the past few years? Our country was in turmoil. Many people were concerned about the large numbers of migrants entering our country and what their arrival would mean for example the identity or security of our country. When you see buses full of asylum seekers driving around the country looking for shelter, when sports rooms are taken to serve as a place to stay, it is not surprising that people are worried. All the more so because it was not clear whether these were real refugees, lucky seekers or people with evil intentions. There was no idea when this situation would end. The fact that we fear this and want to control that situation does not make us racist, does not make us heartless. That makes us more realistic than anything else. Mr. Chairman. During the past period, the VVD has therefore made a strong commitment to making the asylum flow towards our country manageable. I do not need to explain to you that the VVD plan of March 2015 on agreements with safe third countries on reception in their own region and the return of migrants has been the basis for the agreement with Turkey. Those agreements have substantially reduced the influx. And soon the question was no longer in which municipality another asylum-seekers' centre, but was the question where we could close one. I really do not care whether my plan should then be called the Samsom plan or whether it would have been devised by an EU official; the plan may have any name as far as I am concerned, it is about us actually being able to offer a solution to this country and people's concerns. Because VVDs are not people screaming on the sidelines without a solution, or sticking our heads in the sand by denying problems. We name the problems and then we deal with them. And we prefer to do so together with all the constructive parties. We want to take away the care of people whether the Netherlands will remain the Netherlands in the future. The only way to do that is to stick our hands out of each other's hands. That brings me shortly, before Mr Fritsma's interruption will come, to the coalition agreement Trust in the future. But we're about to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u190	The VVD says that everything is now under control in terms of immigration and asylum, but that is, of course, a lie. The asylum influx is anything but dried up. Also this year, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, the counter is at 30,000. In the budget, the inflow for next year has been adjusted from 22,500 to 37,000. The asylum influx hasn't dried up at all. And you are now talking about the Turkey deal. Didn't you read the paper this morning? The Dutch ambassador to Greece has said that it does not work at all, the migrants are not sent back to Turkey at all. In fact, they are being sent into Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u191	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u192	The question is: how dare you cheat on the Dutch citizen by saying that the flow of asylum is under control, when it is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u193	I have said that the flow of asylum is more under control and I will also say in a moment that there is an even greater challenge. It is, of course, also on the continent of Africa. But if we look at the Turkey agreement, it is not true what Mr Fritsma also said in his own term that no one has returned to Turkey. I did a little checking. There was another evaluation in September. Over 1,800 people have been sent back to Turkey. But the great success of this whole Turkey agreement is not even so much about sending back those people who eventually chose Turkey, but all those people who have failed to go from Turkey to Greece at all. I do not need to remind Mr Fritsma that the inflow on the main route has been reduced by 97.5%. Mr Fritsma also has the states at his disposal to see that the influx has gone down. And you translate it here in this country, too, just to be brief about that. The prediction if we hadn't done this was that we would have had more than 100,000 asylum seekers in 2016. Mr Fritsma cannot deny that this number has fallen dramatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u194	I know the numbers. The Central Bureau of Statistics, I have just mentioned it, has said that this year there are 30 000 so far. Last year there were over 30,000. Those hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers are still coming in. If they do not come through Greece, they will come through Italy or Spain, where the case has now doubled. The point is that Mr Azmani is cheating again and again, because the coalition agreement states that shelter in the region. The first achievement of this cabinet is to pick up more refugees from abroad in addition to the asylum influx that we already have. The first thing the cabinet does is get more strangers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u195	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u196	Everything that the VVD said in the elections and put in the government agreement and the election program is one big chatting trick. I ask the VVD to stop doing that, because you cannot keep cheating on the Dutch citizen forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u197	With all due respect for Mr Fritsma's interruptions, I find them a little more boring. It always comes down to the following: nothing is happening at all, nothing has happened, they're all still coming in this direction. However, the facts are different. I challenge Mr Fritsma to acknowledge that steps are being taken, even by the previous cabinet. I fully agree with Mr Fritsma that we are not yet here, but let him now acknowledge that measures, such as the Turkey agreement and also the steps we are currently taking in Africa and possibly with North African countries in the future, are a way of gaining more control over migration policy. If Mr Fritsma walks away from it entirely and only calls for the borders to be closed, without indicating how they should be closed, with all due respect, then this interruption will be of no use to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u198	Mr. Chairman. What Mr Azmani first called the VVD-plan very modestly, from March 2015, and then indicated that he didn't care at all and that it should be called the Samsom plan, that is, of course, the Azmani plan. That's what I'd like to say. He has gained some fame with that, at least in his own circle. The rest of society was less enthusiastic, but the core of that plan was: there is no more asylum application in Europe, except when you come from Europe. You can see, I read that plan very well. Is Mr Azmani, looking back now, satisfied that this has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u199	Yeah, that's what the plan was for. There was no point in applying for asylum in Europe as well, because you knew you would be sent back. That has everything to do with the concept of safe third countries. I would also like to refer to the directives within European law which make it possible to do so. It is now also being used by the Greeks. You can question to what extent and to what extent the Greeks use it. I think we will also have that debate next week in the framework of the JHA Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u200	I am already looking forward to that, but my question concerned Mr Azmani's introduction. He said: I don't care what the plan is called, but I'm satisfied that it's been realized. At the heart of the plan was that you will no longer be able to apply for asylum in Europe, unless you come from Europe. I think I have summarised that very well. My question to Mr Azmani is: is his satisfaction now to be explained by the fact that this plan has been implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u201	What we realized is that in 2016 the Netherlands was not confronted with the forecasts as they were then. These were even positive forecasts, because I think the reality would have been even worse. The Netherlands would have faced more than a hundred thousand asylum seekers. In 2015, we couldn't handle it. The buses drove through the country looking for a place. In my view, we can now see that the outcome has been achieved with regard to the Turkey agreement. Yeah, you do that on the basis of the concept of safe third countries. It will no longer make sense to apply for asylum in Europe, because you will be returned to a safe country in your own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u202	Please continue, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the coalition agreement. We continue to ensure for the next few years that we are actually going to tackle the problems that really wake people up. We're far from finished. We have managed to control the main route across the Aegean via Turkey, but the route through the Mediterranean is still insufficient. We will continue to work in accordance with the VVD-plan of March 2015 to make these agreements with countries in North Africa. In the meantime, we are working on agreements with countries of origin and transit for better reception, own border management and return. This, too, should be given due consideration so that, in addition to investment, consequences can also be seen when countries fail to comply with these agreements. I am talking about consequences in the areas of development aid, trade agreements, treaties, landing rights and/or visa provision. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is much possible within the international agreements and treaties that we have with each other, but we will not hesitate to adapt them in the future whenever necessary. We are therefore waiting with interest for the results of the summit of the European and African Union which is taking place today and tomorrow. This brings me to the first question to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. What role does he see for himself in this international context of the migration domain? In recent decades, our approach has been primarily national, and international action is now required. What ambitions does the Secretary of State have and how does he see the cooperation with Foreign Affairs Ministers and Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation? How closely is he involved in the choices that are made there? Which countries, what investments, and under what conditions? When are we prepared to use the stick against countries that refuse to return? The agreement we have made with each other is that additional expenditure will focus in particular on combating the causes and consequences of migration, including reception in the region. Then I do not immediately become very optimistic when I look at the first spending plans of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation that led to a letter of amendment to the budget of 2018 from Buha/OS. What does the Secretary of State actually think of that and how does he see his own role in it? An example of investment that can be made under the heading of care in the region is the construction of orphanages in the region, not with the aim of getting them full, but to prevent children from being sent to Europe by their parents as forward-looking posts. Wise lessons can be learned from the past. For example, look at Angola where we as the Netherlands have opened an orphanage in Mulemba. As a result, the influx of minor Angolan children to the Netherlands declined rapidly. Last year, in Ethiopia, I was able to see for myself what it means when it appears to be offering a perspective for children towards Europe. Children are taken from their families and exposed to enormous risks along the way, such as abuse and organ trafficking. Now that the number of unaccompanied children in the migration stream has increased again in recent years, we really need to act on this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to play an exciting role on this issue at European level? If Europe simply lags behind in this, can we not reach agreements bilaterally with countries? Mr. Chairman. In the irregular flow of migration to Europe there are also people who we absolutely do not want to protect because they are a danger. I'm talking about terrorists and war criminals. Those who, for example, have participated in the barbaric struggle by wanting to establish their own state: IS. Or those who fight elsewhere too: the jihad against our free West. My warning in 2015 was seriously questioned by some of the leading services. It is now a fact: war criminals should not be able to use our protection. It is not for nothing that we have also included in the coalition agreement that the International Crimes Team is being strengthened in order to identify potential war criminals in the asylum stream. In that context, I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How do you increase the knowledge-building of the alien chain? How is the integrated approach to counter-terrorism issues further developed? What does this mean for the case, in particular for Syrian matters that have now been granted on the basis of outdated knowledge? Should these cases not be re-evaluated on the basis of the most up-to-date knowledge of the situation in the IS area and potential fighters? Shouldn't 1F aspects, for example, be re-examined in the case of an open-ended licence application on the basis of the knowledge available at the time? Shouldn't we use the extra capacity of the 1F unit for constant monitoring? And, for example, can we not take an interim test in the short term to see if someone still meets the conditions for an asylum permit, so that we have a formal test after three years instead of five years? We know that ISIS has lost a lot of ground in Syria over the last few months. We also know that many refugees have gone home. UNHCR recently reported that almost half a million refugees have returned. Most of the returners come from the cities of Aleppo, Hama, Homs and Damascus. According to the refugee organisation, their return shows that the security situation in those parts of the country has improved. My expectation is that, in the coming period, we will have to review the country's policy for Syria and that the result will be that Syrians will also have to return from our country. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he shares this expectation of the VVD. And if so, how does he prepare for this? Has this been discussed at EU level, for example? And are some Member States already preparing for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u204	I would like to return to Mr Azmani's story on screening potential Syrian terrorists. I hope people can really be punished. But yes, we see with the example Laura H. that that punishment is often disappointing: a few months in prison. Does the VVD agree that after serving a very long sentence, hopefully, terrorists should immediately be put back on the plane to Syria and never should never remain in Dutch society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u205	I'd really like that, too, yeah. That's right, I share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u206	And then, of course, there's a big problem. The cabinet has also recently indicated that Syrian terrorists and war criminals cannot be sent back to Syria because of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 3, to be precise. So I would also ask Mr Azmani: carry on, say that treaty because otherwise you cannot get these people out of the Netherlands. We cannot have a situation where the VVD not only brings in Syrian terrorists but then also ensures that they cannot be removed from the Netherlands, because that is the practice now, unless you change it by canceling that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u207	The PVV always understands the art of laying down the obstacle but then does not know what the solution would be. It is not only Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but also Article 33 of the International Convention on Refugees. I do know that the PVV says: then we also call off the whole treaty and we all don't care where these people are going, whether they're going to go to war, etc. I know, that's the PVV's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u208	Syrian terrorists...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u209	Indeed, Syrian terrorists may not...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u210	Don't talk through it! Everyone's awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u211	I don't want to protect Syrian terrorists in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u212	And yet it's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u213	So Mr Fritsma and I share the same desire not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u214	You let them stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u215	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u216	That's your conclusion. I am doing my best to ensure that these people do not actually receive protection in this country. And that is why, for example, we are adding to the 1F unit and making sure that this is in any case my aim is that in the case of permits granted in the past, based on old information, we look at the current information to withdraw those permits. In the end, people must be sent back to Syria, but I think that has been my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u217	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u218	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to talk about something that I had actually made a little bridge to about the deletion of national headlines on European legislation and regulations. I think it would be wise, also to do expectations management for people who have a temporary right of residence here and are sent back if the situation in the country of origin changes, to also make the battle to get rid of national headlines. For example, it is about making it possible to create an interim test, so that after three years it is already clear whether or not someone fulfils the conditions of a residence permit. But also, for example, the abolition of questioning in the case of a repeated application and the withdrawal of automatic legal aid, no longer before when it is intended to be rejected. This is also because the aim is to keep procedures as short and simple as possible. Can the Secretary of State promise to bring this package to the Chamber soon? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the topic of departure. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to further intensify the departure, by extending the instrument of foreign detention, among other things. It is important to recognise that more and more asylum applications are being made by asylum seekers who have first tried to apply for asylum in other parts of Europe. In short, an increase in the so-called Dublin cases. It is not for nothing that additional capacity has been promised for the Return and Departure Service to actually allow more outcasts to leave. My question to the Secretary of State is when the Chamber can see proposals. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to encourage operational cooperation on the European stage? For example, joint action leads to more effectiveness than letting each other play out when it comes to forced departures to reluctant countries. Europe really needs to make a fist in this together. Finally, I would like to focus on economic migration. It is in the interests of increasing our prosperity, entrepreneurship and hence employment in the Netherlands. It's usually a child who's been put down, but it still deserves attention. Compliments also to the previous government for further improving the start-up climate in the Netherlands. My experience is that suggestions are often taken on board, which I actually make every year in this budget debate when it comes to economic migration. Similarly, last year's call for a review of the self-employed scheme, taking into account the positive effects of the start-up scheme. I have also placed my hopes on this Secretary of State to make great strides on this subtle part of our migration policy. I saw encouraging words in the written reply in that area. I have already argued in my 2015 plan that, in addition to a fundamental review of asylum migration policy, we should also seek a fundamental review of economic migration policy. Our current knowledge migrants scheme is more progressive than the European Blue Card scheme, but to be quite honest, it is still far too conservative when you look at other countries on the world stage. With the European Commission's new plans for the revision of the Blue Card scheme, we are far from there as far as the VVD is concerned. As has been mentioned on many occasions, I advocate a hybrid economic migration model for the future, both demand- and supply-oriented, with points awarded to stimulate circular migration, which means temporary migration, and taking into account integration aspects in our own society. The final question is therefore what are the ambitions of this Secretary of State for this important part of migration policy. This brings me to the end of my speech and I look forward to the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u219	Mr Van Ojik. Had just run away and thought: I am not participating in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u220	Yeah, I thought you'd like to hurry up, so let me try to work on that as much as I can. However, I have one more question that concerns Mr Azmani's general speech. He started with that plan, saying it's a good thing that it was finally realized in the Turkey deal. Then he said: and now we continue with the coalition agreement, because for that too our VVD plan is the guiding principle. I would like to ask him once again very clearly, as I have already asked for in previous debates: the Azmani plan states that asylum cannot be applied for in Europe. That's literally what it says, I can read it and quote it. I would like to know whether that is the guiding principle for the coalition agreement, as far as the VVD is concerned. Because then people who want to apply for asylum in Europe will know where they are going, then they cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u221	That was the question you just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u222	And then I didn't get an answer, because then it was about the Turkey deal. After that, Mr Azmani himself started the coalition agreement and said that my plan is also a guide to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u223	Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u224	Well, does that mean that you can no longer apply for asylum in Europe? That's my simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u225	I always find it surprising that this question is being asked from the Green Left angle, because I think that GroenLinks should also want you to eventually go to a system where there is only the possibility of legal migration. It should not be the case that, as the system is now, people are forced to travel illegally, to fall into the hands of smugglers, to some extent to die in the Mediterranean and then to apply for asylum here. GroenLinks should also find this in human terms. In the end, it is intended that we no longer have the possibility of having asylum applications in Europe for other continents. By legal means, by invitation, we look at people who are having a hard time and who, for example, do not have the means to do it and who are in a terrible situation somewhere in a shelter camp. And Mr. Van Ojik should also know...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u226	Period. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u227	Fortunately, at GroenLinks we are still talking about what we should want. It seems to me, in many ways, to be an impenetrable path towards a model in which you say: you cannot apply for asylum in Europe anymore. That is what Mr Azmani is giving to these rulers as a guide to the new cabinet. That seems to me to be at odds with many international treaties. There is no doubt that we are going to discuss this on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u228	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u229	My question is whether this is a passable road as far as he is concerned. But in fact, he has already given the answer. As far as he is concerned, it is a passable road, but as far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is a completely wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u230	I think this was a repeat. So do you, Mr Azmani. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u231	Does Mr Azmani recognise that the government agreement simply recognises asylum applications in Europe at the moment as long as there are no migration deals, just as separate from the Turkey deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u232	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u233	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u234	Thank you, Madam President. JenV's first budget treatment with these three directors. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the gentlemen good luck in the coming years. We will follow them critically as a group, but we will also be very happy to work together to make the Netherlands fairer and safer. Three rulers are an unusually high number. This undoubtedly has to do with the enormous size of the ministry. The question is why a reduction in the VenJ ministry was not chosen. For years there was criticism of the Ministry: too internal, information held in chambers and insufficient cooperation. JenV now plans to become an open and transparent organisation through swarm sessions, shadow placements, changing relays and summer schools. But which of the directors is now responsible for the change process? Are there specific objectives in relation to culture? Which of these are the most urgent? How is the Chamber informed about this process? Integrity is very important for all public institutions, but all the more so for VenJ, because it is the guardian of the rule of law. Under the rule of law, government is bound by law and citizens have legal certainty, equality and freedom. The Netherlands is such a rule of law, but also with us this requires permanent maintenance. Improvements are needed, first of all for a stronger approach to sexual violence. Do you remember 2015, with the hashtag "Say It"? Thousands of victims of sexual violence shared when their experiences on social media and the Netherlands reacted shocked that sexual abuse was so widespread and that many victims felt not sufficiently supported by the police. We are now two years on: "#MeToo." It emphasises that sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape are linked to abuse of power. It's about wrongdoing of individuals, who are responsible. But their actions are often motivated by broad-based thinking about gender patterns, about what one should accept and the other thinks he can afford. So it is not, as I heard a party leader suggest here, about too much sexual freedom. On the contrary, it is high time for more sexual freedom, but for everyone. The freedom to say no and the freedom to say yes: sexual self-determination. "#MeToo" also shows that police methods can still be improved. Mind you, I think there's been a big blow with the sex instruction of 2016 and that many sex detectives are extremely professional and involved. But victims are not yet actively invited to report an assault. That's an approach that stands in stark contrast to the police's call to report every time there's an attempted burglary in your house. Even if someone hasn't managed to get in and you haven't seen the killer, the police still want you to report it, because they get information about what times, where and by what means, bad guys make their move. The effect of the request for a declaration is that victims are made clear that the government is not okay with what happened. Even if prosecution is unlikely, it helps to deal with victims. Victims of sexual violence usually have to go through an informative conversation before they can report it. They are asked to think carefully about the consequences of a declaration. That is often perceived as disheartening. That does not necessarily make me an opponent of an informative conversation, but I do want to give it a different load and use it to reduce the step to the police by making it clear to victims that an informative conversation is always useful, even if it does not lead to persecution, because the police get more information about how, where and by whom sexual violence is committed. Can the Minister indicate whether he is willing to investigate whether that red carpet for victims can be explained with a campaign to report to you and with an inviting website? Perhaps then fewer victims of frustration will try to get their rights through social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u235	GroenLinks is always very opposed to the CDA if we want to tackle human trafficking and prostitution, but if there is now one sector in the Netherlands where sexual abuse is high, it is in that sector. From now on, can I see GroenLinks a little more on our side specifically at the point of intakes of the GGD, looking at whether there is voluntaryness? GroenLinks always says they don't want to do that, but I'd like GroenLinks to be on our side to get a picture of these women, so that they also count when we talk about #MeToo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u236	I find it a very strange conclusion that GroenLinks is for trafficking in human beings. We are extremely motivated to tackle trafficking in human beings because we see trafficking in human beings as a violation of human rights. Human trafficking indeed occurs in prostitution, but also in many other sectors, such as mushroom farming. Force people to act is forbidden. GroenLinks will always fight for that. There are a number of proposals. They are also launched by this cabinet. We will discuss these proposals here, but we must also consider the consequences. I'll mention the licensing requirement. That duty requires a person to report and to work as a provider of sexual services only if they are licensed. But what happens if someone does not have a permit and is then seriously attacked and there is violence? Then it may be that the effect of the good intentions is absolutely true that people do not dare to report to the police because they are going to have a permit. We are concerned that we not only have many fine rules to combat abuses and trafficking in human beings, but also that we will see how they will work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u237	I think my colleague Anne Kuik is going to have great debates with GroenLinks about prostitution and about the need for a licensing system, but I would like to go back to the intake, because that is what I was talking about. Each time we collide with GroenLinks when we indicate that we want those women in the picture and that we want the GGD to have talks with these women, precisely to find out if someone is working in this industry voluntarily. So far GroenLinks has always said: no, this is privacy; that's nobody's business. But let's make that bridge now and, in view of the #MeToo-discussion, dare to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u238	I think that's very good, but I want to look very carefully at what the GMD intakes are for. There's gonna be some kind of mix-up now. Those intakes are indeed meant to see if someone is healthy and if anyone does all of this without compulsion, but there is something about this: the licensing obligation is around the corner. Then things get mixed up, which makes people less likely to call in. Let us indeed look very closely at the question of ensuring women's autonomy. That is ultimately our guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u239	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u240	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stay with women for a while. Since 2015, criminal law has prohibited marriage coercion, and thus marriage imprisonment. You can't force anyone to stay married to you. That's a fine law, but criminal law has great consequences. For many women who do want to divorce, causing a two-year prison sentence for their ex, who is often also the father of their children, is all too rough. As a result, as far as I know, no one has been convicted of marital imprisonment. GroenLinks therefore believes with the CDA that we should also tackle marriage imprisonment through the Civil Code. The judge can already conclude that not cooperating in a divorce can be seen as a tortious act and will impose a penalty payment for every day a man refuses to give his ex-wife her freedom back. But not every woman can enforce her freedom by this route, as the court of the Hague made clear on appeal last week. This depends on individual circumstances and therefore offers too little security to all women. Is the Minister prepared to investigate how the omission in the Civil Code can be repaired with a generic rule, in which, for example, non-cooperation in the termination of a religious marriage is considered by default as a tortious act? I would also like to ask him what other measures he intends to take to ensure that marital imprisonment does not occur here anymore. I am thinking of legal aid abroad as a refuse husband living there, the presence of embassy staff at court sessions, better training of healthcare professionals to recognize marriage imprisonment and so on. I'd like to get an exhaustive list. Mr. Chairman. The robustness of the rule of law proves itself in practice. It is there that fundamental rights are given meaning. I would like to ask the Minister to really stand up for the law and to do so. Let me take as an example the freedom of demonstration. Demonstration freedom is not a favor but a right. It enables people to be heard in social discussions or when they think there is injustice. And yes, that's not always fun, because then there is conflict and conflict of opinion. In recent years, you've seen a trend to get out of the way. People get caught too quickly and later, when the momentum is over, with an "sorry" released again. There are sometimes substantive conditions for demonstrations and demonstrations are completely prohibited. Sometimes this happened for good reasons, but sometimes because it would take too much human strength to maintain public order, while the same police effort is used to keep paid football in good jobs. I would like to hear from the Minister what tasks he sees for himself to ensure that intimidation does not win and that freedom of expression applies to everyone. Of course, there is an important task for mayors, but it is the Dutch State as a whole that is the standard addressee of human rights treaties. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u241	I will come back to the previous point, the religious marriages. I remember that years ago I tabled several motions to request that private international law be adapted so that those marriages would not be recognised. There was no one for that, not even GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u242	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u243	No, I hear you say it. Now you're missing an important point, because you say you need to be free to marry someone but also to be able to divorce. You didn't just mention that point. You say you want to put an end to staying in a religious marriage that you don't want, the marital imprisonment, but why shouldn't such a lady be able to divorce here? That is what you say in your article, but you are not saying how it should be implemented. You say you want to see marriage imprisonment as a tortious act. Apparently, it's not enough right now. So I see a whole text in the media, but I see no solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u244	It's good and thank you for asking, because time is standing still. Then I can take my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u245	Well, also very short, not unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u246	I'll explain how it works. Then we're really talking about someone being forced and trying to get out of a marriage and the man isn't cooperating. You could go to criminal law, but that's often a bit too big a step. Then you could go to court, just like you did recently. Then you can say, "My husband isn't cooperating." The judge can then say that that is seen as a tortious act and can impose a penalty to force someone to let the other one leave that marriage. Last year a judge in the Netherlands said: no, you should not be with me; then you should be at the Sharia court in London. Last week, the Court of Appeal in The Hague said that this does concern us, because someone is really in unfreedom and that is a problem for all of us, and that it can be seen as a tortious act. That way, there's a way to force someone to divorce. It only applies to some people in some situations. Hence my question: can this be arranged in a more generic way for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u247	Finally, Mrs Helder, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u248	Yeah, short. I still do not see that, because then the lady concerned is still not divorced. That's the problem I ran into as a lawyer. It is also a question of disbanding a marital property community and dividing up the goods. Eventually, the bourgeois judge isn't about that either. So I still don't see the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u249	What matters is that a civil marriage can often be dissolved, but then someone stays trapped in a religious marriage with great consequences. Then someone can still, if she's in another relationship, be seen by a community as an adulterous woman. It cannot go to certain Islamic countries. By forcing a man to cooperate in the formula for the dissolution of a religious marriage, a next step is taken. So I'd like to look forward to the Minister's opinion to help us with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u250	Mr Van Oosten also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u251	A question, Mr President. We as legislators can find something about being able to dissolve or not be able to dissolve marriages concluded under civil law. Agreed. But we don't want to suddenly get involved in all kinds of religions, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u252	No, we don't. By the way, there is reference to religious marriages, because you can only enter into a religious marriage if you have already entered into a civil marriage. So we're not blind to the existence of religious marriages. So there is already an acknowledgement that these religious marriages can be there. Let us make sure that people can get out of it. Why is this really a problem for us? Because it's about human rights. You as a human being have the right to choose your own partner. This means that you should also have the right to get rid of that again, to have a divorce. We cannot be blind to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u253	But, Mr. Chairman, just for the record. Why have we arranged it in the Netherlands as we have arranged it and are civil law and civil law officials leading it? Because we in this country have a separation of church and state and because we say: you can only marry here in accordance with civil law. In addition, if you want to organise something of a celebration in the context of a religion or make a commitment, some people do that and some do not do that, it's all fine, but it's certainly civil law, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u254	In the Netherlands, civil law is indeed leading, and I do not want to undermine it. Nor do I care that there are all religious marriages, but I note that they are there and that civil marriage is often dissolved while religious marriage continues. People are trapped in there and that causes a problem. I hope to be able to solve that, together with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u255	This is a sympathetic point. I read an extensive interview with Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Van Toorenburg on nu.nl. So I've been able to read a little more about this. It's a nice point. No one should be in a marriage against his or her will. The same applies to the DENK Group. I was also curious to see how big the problem is. Can you tell me about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u256	That's a very good question. I would also like to receive some more figures from the Minister. I know that marriage coercion and marriage imprisonment fall within that definition, about 900 women a year. It is, of course, very complicated to have those figures, because it is difficult to know who they are. That's the problem with this. The figures on marriage coercion were once calculated by Movisie: about 900 women a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u257	I would suggest that this be made clearer. Then you'd be much better off working on a solution. That would be my call. I'd like to know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u258	In my view, there is a kind of action plan through the Ministry of Social Affairs which is not yet known whether it will start next year. Maybe the Minister can answer that, because it is not just a question of justice. It is also important that things are recognised by healthcare institutions and that people are offered help. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands is equal before the law, but in reality we have not yet succeeded in giving everyone equal opportunities. We must do much more to tackle discrimination, including in the public administration as in the police. This month, Chief Constable Akerboom received a bundling of stories about discrimination and racism in the corps. The existence of a closed police culture is well known and it has led in the past to more agents with a migration background leaving the force than there were. The situation does not seem to have improved substantially. How does the Minister see this? GroenLinks finds the open attitude of Chief Akerboom on this point encouraging, but butter will have to be delivered to the fish. That is important for the agents involved, it is important to attract more staff, perhaps even to counter the absenteeism that Mr Van Oosten mentioned, but it is also important for the safety of the whole society, because too one-sided police are at risk of not being trusted by society as a whole. That trust is needed to gain information and to really be accepted as the current authority, the only one with the monopoly of violence. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go into that authority. In some places and streets of the Netherlands, it is not the strength of the law that threatens to apply, but the law of the strongest. There organized crime intimidates citizens and mayors. There the underworld is intertwined with the upperworld. This undermining threatens people's freedom and legal certainty. In order to make the most of all knowledge, there is a need for optimal cooperation between different parties: OM, police, justice, fire department, intelligence and security services, healthcare institutions, the expanding group of extraordinary investigators and, yes, private parties. Mr Van Oosten also said it. Would it not be a good start for the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Legal Protection if they really come together with a broad security vision, as proposed by the Coalition for Security, in which many professionals have gathered from the field? The political parties in this Chamber have an additional responsibility, because the integrity of our local politicians must be beyond doubt. May I continue, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u259	I see Mr Van Oosten standing at the interrupting microphone. Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The theme is very different. I heard Mrs Buitenweg talk about private parties, who should also be involved in the joint raising against undermining. I just have one question, just to confirm. From the perspective of GroenLinks, does this mean that information should be shared with these organisations? This concerns information about personal data and criminal backgrounds, because it is precisely the undermining party that we want to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u261	On the contrary, I would like that to be included in the integrated security vision. You convinced me completely, not now, but a long time ago. For example, it is also about renting out businesses: sometimes people are already in the picture. We must ensure that this information is properly shared. That's all these things. It is also very important for us to tackle undermining crime, which is a real violation of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u262	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u263	Two more points, Mr President. Legal certainty requires that people have real access to justice, even if they have less money. The Netherlands has a system of subsidised legal aid, which has long been used as an example for many other countries. A typical Dutch tradition, so to speak. But that system is now under pressure. The Van der Meer Committee has shown that lawyers work a lot more hours than they are reimbursed and that affects the quality of the work. I would like the Minister to confirm that he still supports the principles of the current system. That is the starting point that a lawyer gets one point for one hour's work and that a reasonable income is earned with about 1,200 hours a year. Finally, I would like to emphasise the importance of mediation. In criminal law too, mediation can help to give victims the direction of their own lives, to hold perpetrators to account, to better understand what has happened and to seek redress without any consequences for the progress of the criminal case. Mediation is thus a valuable addition to criminal justice. I therefore support the amendments aimed at an additional EUR 1.5 million for this mediation. Mr. Chairman. So far I have talked about the rule of law and human rights in the Netherlands, about the right to shape your own life, free of violence and free of arbitrariness by the government. This freedom is not only for the Dutch, because human rights are universal. I am therefore happy to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Bram van Ojik, on asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u264	Well, I think I'm gonna suspend first. No, you're not! I'm kidding. Come on, Mr. Van Ojik. I call Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not know if I can get the same number of words per minute as my colleague, Mr Buitenweg. I, too, would like to wish the rulers good luck. Indeed, I will focus on asylum and migration. I will therefore probably debate this with the Secretary of State in particular. I hope that, in spite of the differences of opinion which there will certainly be, we will be able to come to business once in a while. Mr. Chairman. All right, as long as they don't come here: it's this uncut, non-in-my-backyard approach that hit me first when I brought the part about asylum and migration into the coalition agreement. The new cabinet sometimes seems almost obsessed with it. In particular, read the section on "Human and Effective Migration Policy" which has been highlighted for the sake of security. We offer refugee protection by creating safe places for them, close to where they come from. Then they don't have to migrate. If they do, if they are not immediately at risk, they will be returned to the shelter in the region. From there, if the inflow decreases, we can offer resettlement in the Netherlands. We start with 750, one, out of a total of 65 million refugees worldwide, unfortunately not very impressive number. Madam President. The policy of this cabinet is built on quicksand. The countries where we want to send the refugees for shelter do not exist. The region has been overburdened for a long time and has been doing a great deal of what we are doing. The region has its own problems and is not safe enough to send people back. This policy also brings the limit of humanity into sight. What risks do we risk letting the sent back? Why don't we take our own responsibility? I hope the Secretary of State will take this up. Just as the number of refugees coming to the EU is falling back to what you might call a long-term average, we need to work on a future-proof migration policy in which those who have to flee from violence and oppression know that they can turn to us, but in which those who are not entitled to asylum are taken care of and helped in time before they make the life-threatening and costly crossing, and in which we remain in charge of our external borders but do not lock Europe. As far as I am concerned, we will be debating it a lot in the near future. In today's policy, groups of vulnerable refugees looking at politics for a solution risk coming home from a cold carnival. Let me give you the example of Afghanistan and Afghan refugees. Security in Afghanistan has recently declined in such a way that the UN has now declared that it is at war again. A recent Amnesty report confirms the view that no part of Afghanistan is structurally safe enough to expel asylum seekers. Still, we're doing this. I understand there's a new post in the making, drafted by the Foreign Office. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to refrain from inadvertently exposing asylum seekers to danger and, therefore, to suspend the return to Afghanistan. Mr. Chairman. Children rooted in the Netherlands have been calling for a solution for many years. It is now quite undeniable that the current children's pardon is a solution for few children. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what he is going to do to allow a more generous application of the children's pardon. I am sure that is where Mr Voordewind is on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u266	I'm going to say something about that in my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u267	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u268	I'm going back to the previous topic. I heard Mr Van Ojik say that boats will be returned and that people must go back to the region and be taken care of there. Where does Mr Van Ojik read that boats are being sent back at the moment and people in the region are being taken care of, regardless of the Turkey deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u269	We have already had this discussion a number of times. I have just asked Mr Azmani. The intention of this cabinet, and not only its scope, but also the letter of this government agreement, is that we are going to try to conclude agreements with countries to which we can send back refugees who knock in Europe so that they can apply for asylum there. That is the essence of the coalition agreement, and so does Mr Voordewind. I think that is an undesirable effort and an undesirable development. I do not think that the Azmani plan should guide the coalition agreement. That may be a difference with Mr Voordewind, but that is what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u270	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u271	My question was whether those boats are being returned at the moment, apart from the Turkey deal. I think Mr Van Ojik is now saying that this is not the case. At the time when there would be a deal with a country, called Tunisia, Mr Van Ojik does not think that we should do the screening there and that we should prevent people from getting into those boats so that perhaps they could come to Europe through that safe programme of UNHCR, the UN refugee organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u272	When you send refugees back to the region, even if you have an agreement with a country, you shift your own responsibility to other countries, countries that are often already in trouble themselves, often already receiving 95% of the global flow of refugees, who often already have problems with insecurity and terror themselves. I think that the fact that we are concluding an agreement with these countries so that we no longer have to grant asylum is a fundamentally wrong approach. We may differ on this, but I do not think that Mr Voordewind should run away from the signature he has signed under the coalition agreement that this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u273	Please continue. Or were you done already, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u274	No, Mr President, I have 20 seconds left, and I would like to use them to put another question to the Secretary of State concerning the slave trade with asylum seekers in Libya, on which he has undoubtedly read. My question is whether this will still have consequences for our support for the Libyan Coast Guard, which is aimed at picking up people at sea and bringing them back to Libya. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u275	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Actually, I'd like to make the proposal to suspend until 5:00 a.m.
