ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service once again. I give the floor to Mr Albert de Vries of the Labour Party when he is ready. That's him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u2	The Minister said in passing that this may be the last time, Mr President, but you never know how the hares run. There could be a lot of twists and turns! Mr. Chairman. I have prepared one motion, because the evaluation of the Law of Cracking and Void shows that one part of the law works well but the other part doesn't. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that evaluation shows that the Law does not provide sufficient incentives to crack and empty municipalities to effectively address long-term vacancy;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the municipalities, to examine the additional instruments and sanctions they need to effectively combat long-term vacancy and, on the basis of the results of this study, to submit proposals to the Court before 1 July 2017 to supplement the instruments of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31560-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u3	Mr. Chairman. Kraken is a felony. In a country with 8 million homes, no one has to sleep under the bridge. We have benefits, we have rent payments, and we have shelter for homeless people and homeless people. I don't think it's normal that there are people who simply break into a house and go camping there. You have nothing to do in other people's apartment and you stay away from other people's things, so you stay away from other people's real estate. The Law of Cracking and Vulnerability has solved the cracking problem to a great extent. The VVD would like to strengthen that law further, especially on the definition of house law. However, the main problem now is enforcement: municipalities that make the conscious choice not to clear for empty positions. I find the world upside down when I have to read in De Telegraaf that a hardworking Amsterdammer first has to pay €30,000 to the municipality for anti-cracking in his own shop and that the municipality then does nothing to squatters in the same building. We don't have the laws and rules for nothing. They are meant to protect the undisturbed enjoyment of property. The Dutch must be able to count on these laws to be enforced. The VVD in Amsterdam will crack a black book tomorrow and will ask for stricter legislation and enforcement. I fully support my colleague Dilan Yeşilgöz. Stop it tolerated, go maintain and let squatters take the fall for all costs. That's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u4	Thank you for your contribution. I see the Minister is able to respond directly to the only motion tabled. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u5	Mr. Chairman. In his motion in part No. 38 Mr De Vries asked the government, in consultation with municipalities, to examine the additional instruments and sanctions they needed to combat long-term vacancy effectively and to submit proposals to the Chamber before 1 July on the basis of the results of this investigation. In the investigation that we have had done, perhaps not all groups have been investigated; hence I have promised to have further talks with housing corporations, the police and private owners. However, the target municipalities have been explicitly investigated. The picture is that municipalities make limited use of this law in dealing with empty positions, but very often address empty positions on a different basis. I do not therefore share the consideration of the motion, which is based on the assessment of the law, that municipalities do not have sufficient tools. I have always understood that only the municipality of Amsterdam would like to have more instruments based on this law and that other municipalities generally say to do it in a different way. The motion calls for additional instruments and sanctions. In general consultation, I have already indicated that, in addition to these effects, measures often have unintended effects. Sanction measures that can affect property owners also make investors shy and I like to see them become active in the Dutch housing market. This is how I see it from my previous position. On balance, therefore, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u6	That's what was coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u7	It's a pleasure for the Minister to make that connection. That's what I'm trying to do. But it's weird that the minister says that municipalities can get out of their way. They do not use this law, because it does not provide enough grip. If there are handles, it takes so much energy and human strength to use them that it is simply unworkable. For example, one of the things that is asked is to move on to another owner if a fine is imposed. The minister says, "That's what's gonna happen to the new next investor." But it does lower the price that the new investor pays, doesn't it? That property will be taxed. So I don't understand what the inconvenience is for a new buyer or investor if a property is burdened with a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u8	Mr De Vries asked the Minister through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u9	An investor we would like to see in the Netherlands, especially because of the great need for middle-priced rentals, will, especially if it is a foreign investor, explore the legal opportunities and limitations. He will then be told: a municipality can force a property owner with sanctions to choose a tenant, even if he does not want to. This is also stated in the motion. This is not a message that a potential investor says: that sounds like a welcome book from the Netherlands for the investor who wants to build rental homes. This creates this side effect. It is not the effect that Mr De Vries intended to achieve with the motion; I understand that. But this side effect occurs. In the weighting of the effects, I find this side effect harmful. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u10	Of course, the motion isn't aimed at all those bona fide investors and all those people who own a property. She really is about the cottage milkers who knowingly leave a property empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u11	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u12	It's about interpretation. With my motion, I want to create a toolbox to deal with people who really do not have good intentions. There's a lot of them anyway. I can't believe the Minister doesn't see that. I have the same goal as the Minister with regard to making the Netherlands interesting for foreign investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u13	I understand very well that Mr De Vries is aiming for non-bona fide property owners, but the motion introduces an internationally very unusual instrument, namely the obligation to seek a tenant, with a penalty, in an area where we want to show that the Netherlands is an attractive country. That negative effect of introducing an internationally very unusual instrument is so great that I therefore reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-39.u14	This brings us to the end of this report. The motion tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
