ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It's strange to me. Ten months ago, a debate was requested in this Chamber with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on the abuses surrounding the AOW discount. This debate did not take place before the elections. I actually understand why. If for ten years the law has been broken and international law and the principle of equality has been violated, that is not something to write about, and especially not in the run-up to elections. The legislative proposal before us does have some similarities. We at DENK are the only party to participate in this debate today. I wonder where colleagues from the other political parties are and why they did not sign up for the debate. The choice may indeed have been to separate the two things, but one is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u3	Mr Kuzu, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. You say you're the only one who speaks. That is not the case. Mr De Jong, on behalf of the PVV Group, has also signed up for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u4	Well, well, well. That's good! Then I'm not the only one. We at DENK would also have liked to see Minister Asscher here today because of his role in this matter. But he's not here today. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State if the outgoing cabinet is still speaking with one voice. It is also very remarkable that only one hour is allocated to this debate. Ten years of mispolicy, ten months of waiting for a debate and an hour of accountability. I don't know. I don't know. Where has it all gone wrong and how has this transitional arrangement been established for countries and territories with which no treaties have been concluded? It all starts with the Export Disability Benefits Act (Law BEU). This law is designed to prevent fraud involving benefits abroad. According to this law, only people living in a country with which the Netherlands has an enforcement treaty can be paid in full. Such an enforcement treaty exists between the Netherlands and Israel, but this does not apply to the occupied territories. The illegal Israeli settlements where a few dozen AOW beneficiaries live are illegal under international law. So they need to be cut off on their AOW. That is not the case, however. I'll take you to December 2015. A Dutch settler in the Israeli-occupied West Bank receives a letter from the Social Insurance Bank. This man gets an AOW benefit because he used to live in the Netherlands. The letter says he actually has to pay taxes on his AOW. But he's lucky. He doesn't have to pay the tax on his AOW, because that's what the Social Insurance Bank does for him. He can't eat his luck. Previously, as a resident of the occupied territory, he received a letter informing him that he would also receive income support in addition to his AOW, which he was not actually entitled to. You might think this could have been an incidental mistake. But the opposite is true. For years this man, and with him dozens of other settlers in Israel's occupied territories, gained exclusive and illegal privileges. This was not a mistake, but it was the policy of the Dutch government over the past ten years. These abuses actually started in 2002. In that year the first contours of the exception position for the settlers were outlined. The man behind this was none other than our outgoing Prime Minister Mark Rutte. On 20 September 2002, the then Secretary of State Rutte, in response to parliamentary questions from the then MPs Veling and Van Dijke of the Christian Union, indicated the following. Under international law, Israel is not a sovereign power in the occupied territories. He concluded, therefore, that, in the absence of a treaty applicable to the occupied territories, the benefits of beneficiaries residing there will be terminated or reduced by 1 January 2003. And we are now living in 2017. We're 14 years away. Clear language, you'd think, but nothing else turned out to be true. In the same replies, Rutte indicated that the persons concerned were informed very late and that the reduction of their benefit would therefore be postponed by one year until 2004. This was the beginning of delay that would lead to setbacks. In 2004, the moment for a further delay dawned. Due to a legal complication, implementation was suspended until 2006, but this was not enough. My question to the Secretary of State is: what exactly were these legal complications at the time? However, this too was not enough for the Israeli Government. She didn't want to postpone, she wanted to postpone from the Dutch government. Instead of rejecting this ridiculous request from the Israeli Government, the then Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende seemed to have ears for this. This was partly thanks to a strong lobby for the maintenance of benefits in the occupied territories, according to an official note. How does the Secretary of State feel about the actions of the then Prime Minister? Does the Secretary of State reject the fact that the then Prime Minister was led by lobbyists and thereby violated the law? For ten years, officials have been looking for a loophole in the law. What was illegal and illegal and had no legal basis had to be covered somehow. Four ministers were involved. In addition to SZW, the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Health, Welfare and Sport and General Affairs were included in this scandal. Blue letters, pressure from lobbyists, provisional solutions; nothing could provide the policy of the Dutch government legal basis. Meanwhile, taxpayers had to pay illegally for the settlers who settled in Palestinian territory. All this looks like a movie. In this situation you would like it to be a genre of this category: science fiction. But unfortunately, it's all based on a true story. I would also like to mention the role of the then Minister for Social Affairs, Aart Jan de Geus of the CDA. In 2005, this Minister concludes an enforcement agreement with the Palestinian Authority. In this way, the Palestinians were theoretically responsible for fraud control in the settlements. This was a paper solution, because the Palestinian Authority is not allowed to enter the settlements by the Israeli Government at all. According to this idea of Minister De Geus, the oppressed had to help provide the oppressor with illegal privileges. I repeat: the oppressed had to help to provide the oppressor with illegal privileges. But also this nauseating idea of Minister De Geus proved to be untenable, because an agreement with the Palestinian Authority required a change of law and therefore Parliament's assent. Parliament was not allowed to know about this. In any case, the Chamber was not informed. After this failed attempt at legal basis, De Geus asked his officials on 25 March 2005: what would go wrong if we just kept paying? And so it happened: no publicity, no accountability and no legal basis. While all residents of other areas without an enforcement treaty were reduced according to the law from 2006, an exception to the rule was made for illegal Israeli settlements. We can safely speak of a cover-up culture that lasted ten years in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, but also other ministries involved. For ten years, the government has acted in violation of law, international law and the principle of equality of law. How could this have happened, I ask the Secretary of State. Who's gonna put on the penance dress for all these abuses, I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State. In addition, the Court's obligation to provide information has not been fulfilled. The Chamber has been bypassed for ten years. What's the Secretary of State's reaction to this? Perhaps the most important question is: why has there been deliberate wrongdoing? This bill is also about victims of war. Was it specifically about war victims who were taken into account at the time? No, because the relief of war victims was never the reason to make an exception for Israel's occupied territory. War benefits guarantee a basic income. Whoever's dealing with an AOW discount gets compensation. There are also war victims with an AOW benefit in Western Sahara and Cyprus, which are reduced according to the law. Apparently, one AOW guy isn't the other. One AOW'er is probably more equal than the other. Doesn't the Secretary of State think this is a double measure? And how does it intend to correct this inequality, which has lasted for ten years? I'd say equal monks, equal hoods. Reclaim the Dutch taxpayer's money with retroactive effect, making an exception for war victims. Any money received too much must be repaid. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Things seemed to be changing in 2013. The Social Insurance Bank received a new board. The new board decided to dive into the secret files. Research showed that 28 out of 49 beneficiaries had given up living in Israel instead of illegal Israeli settlements. Any Dutch citizen who would do this would receive a heavy fine. However, this did not apply to these settlers. Couldn't the Social Insurance Bank have figured this out at fraud control? Yes, I do. But this was deliberately not done. This is also reflected in the replies given by Secretary of State Rutte in 2002. The information was already available in 2001. For example, one of the officials at the Social Insurance Bank indicates that the control of fraud was a farce. "You weren't allowed to go to Israel from the top of the ministry. You had to give me the addresses you were going to visit in advance and you weren't allowed to go to occupied territory. That's what we joked about internally." I find this scandalous and, in fact, disgusting. My question to the Secretary of State is: why did civil servants have to report in advance which addresses they were going to visit? And how come occupied territories weren't visited? Was the SVB, the Social Insurance Bank, put under pressure by the Ministry at the time? And which other countries are subject to these rules? In January 2014, the new board of the Social Insurance Bank sent a letter to settlers who wrongly received a high benefit stating that they would be cut. The letter was not yet out or panicked at the Dutch embassy in Tel Aviv. During that period, Louis Asscher waved the scepter at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Asscher was briefed by his officials on the illegal practice of the Dutch government over the past ten years. At the request of the Prime Minister and then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Frans Timmermans had to seek maximum creativity. Feel free to say: devious and devious constructions to straighten out what is crooked. So the ball was actually at Lodewijk Asscher. Would he, unlike his predecessors, comply with the law and international law? Or would he, like his predecessors, continue on the path taken? Minister Asscher did not want to interfere with the illegal privileges of the past. He wanted the Social Insurance Bank to comply with the law from now on. But that didn't take long. An emotional Frans Timmermans at the Council of Ministers turned out to be enough for a friendly service. The tears of PvdA Minister Timmermans weighed more heavily than the law for Minister Asscher. Only two hours later, an Asscher official sent an e-mail to the Social Insurance Bank. The message was clear: we stick to the old. The soothing letters to the settlers in occupied Palestinian territories could leave the door. The search for legal justification continued. To conclude an agreement with Israel recognising Israel's actual control over occupied territory seemed to be the most promising option. This agreement with Israel should be a basis for a transitional arrangement which, with retroactive effect, justifies all excess benefits in the past. However, the Social Insurance Bank considers this to be too far-reaching. The SVB sees no justification for the creation of a transitional right only for Israeli occupied territories. The Ministry received for the first time a no-go from the independent administrative body. Today we are discussing this transitional arrangement. I'm asking the Secretary of State if we're talking about the same transitional arrangement the Social Insurance Bank gave a no-go for. The attempts to justify injustice continue unabated. A new article of law is being devised for the AOW to make it possible to ignore the obligation to cut benefits if such a reduction is due to the termination of an enforcement treaty. While this article has been invented for quite different purposes, SZW officials have devised a twisting reasoning to justify this scandal forever. The reasoning is that the beneficiaries would have been under the assumption that they would be covered by the Enforcement Treaty with Israel. Because the Social Insurance Bank warned these benefit recipients about shortening, the treaty would, as it were, expire for these people. In this way a transitional arrangement could be introduced, allowing them to continue to receive too high benefits. This reasoning also doesn't add up. These people have been informed about the rules in advance through parliament, interest groups and the Social Insurance Bank website. In some cases, people have even been personally informed about this. But once again, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Louis Asscher, saw an opportunity to postpone. On 18 July 2014, the Minister shall send a letter to the Chairman of the Board of the SVB with the mandate to continue to pay the persons concerned in the occupied territory in full pending a transitional arrangement. The agreement is to apply a discount on new cases from 1 January 2015, but this must be published in the Official Journal. But Asscher doesn't publish the scheme. The Minister blamed staff changes and unclear division of responsibility within SZW. This led to an even report against Minister Asscher for a possible criminal offence. Can the Secretary of State rule out the fact that there has actually been a criminal offence committed by Minister Asscher? Isn't the Minister responsible for the mistakes of his officials? In what way did the Minister assume his responsibility in this matter? This ensures that the SVB continues to provide full benefits unjustly. That's another reason for a party in Tel Aviv. The amendment of the General Old Age Law, which is now before us, is in fact a formalisation of what has been intended for ten years. This file stinks. It's dirty. A policy, based on "Don't touch Israel," is not a fair policy. This does not do justice to the principle of equality. We at DENK want all the facts on the table. We need to talk to all those involved. It has to be explained how it has been possible for several ministers, State Secretary and civil servants, even prime ministers, to have tolerated this mispolicy all these years. In short, the bottom stone has to come up. That is why we at DENK are calling for a parliamentary inquiry. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. It is striking, moreover, when it comes to the checks on the AOW and the fight against fraud in that context, that there have been ten years of arrangements that are now formalised through the amendment of this bill. In other countries there is much more stringent action. Budget and capacity are being released in other countries to fight fraud harder. But is that fair? Are we even honest about that? Do we measure by the same measure, or are we stricter for one country than for another?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u5	Mr. Chairman. We have before us a legislative proposal that, as described in the explanatory memorandum, will stipulate that for AOW beneficiaries recognised as Resistance participant 1940-1945, prosecution victims, seafarers and war victims from the same period and victims of the period of disturbances in the former Dutch East Indies, an exception is made in relation to the AOW export restriction. I can be brief about this. In the view of the PVV Group, it is logical that this step should be taken. This is in line with the previous support of the PVV to the 2015 motion of the Christian Union and the SGP, which called for the exclusion of these groups from the AOW discount for single persons. Furthermore, the SVB has been anticipating this bill since 1 January 2016. The most important thing, of course, is that we should not confront the victims of the horrors during the Second World War with a discount on the AOW because they happen to live in a country with which the Netherlands has not signed a treaty. We therefore support this bill. After reading the explanatory statement, there is not only enthusiasm at the PVV. In the document, this cabinet puts Israel away as an occupying force, a Palestinian lie that also affects AOW beneficiaries. What's the case? If you live in Samaria, Judea, the Golan or East Jerusalem, this cabinet sees you as a resident of occupied territory. According to this cabinet, you are not covered by the treaty with Israel that excludes you from the AOW export restriction, simply because the Netherlands does not recognise Israel's authority in these areas. The PVV considers that a bad situation. We therefore call on the Secretary of State to recognise these areas as Israeli territories in future. That is the first step: stop bashing Israel and acknowledge Israeli authority in those areas! If the Secretary of State does so, the result is that the AOW beneficiaries residing there are excluded from the AOW export restriction as it applies to the rest of Israel. That seems so fair to me. Then, Madam Secretary of State, make an appointment with your fellow minister of this friendly nation, so that, with the delight of a delicious Heartland wine, we can actually put this into practice and make it clear once and for all that we are friends of Israel in the Netherlands. I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State can undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u6	Thank you very much, Mr De Jong. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. The Commission is ready to reply directly to the questions put to it. I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, and also thank the two Members of your Chamber who have contributed to this debate. Thank you also to the other Members who are attending this debate. They have already delivered input at a much earlier stage. I also see new faces in your room today. The predecessors of these new members have already sent us their contributions. Today's agenda includes the proposal to amend the General Old Age Law in relation to the establishment of the right to the single standard and income support for resistance participants and war victims residing in non-Treaty countries and of transitional rights for income support. This bill regulates that war victims, wherever they live in the world, are not reduced to their AOW pension if they are single. That's what cut is all about today, if you don't mind my saying so. I've listened carefully to both insertions. I also know the history of this entire file. Your Chamber has often paid attention to this and many written questions have also been tabled and answered. I now consider it appropriate to look specifically at this bill. I also think this is very important, because it became clear from several parliamentary questions in 2015 that this is a very vulnerable group, namely people with war experiences during the Second World War and from the period of disturbances in the former Dutch East Indies. Some of these people were affected by discounts on their AOW because they are resident in a country or in an area not covered by a social security convention. We have a debt of honour and special solidarity towards this group. It has therefore been examined whether specific measures under the AOW are desirable for these poignant cases in the future within the group of victims of war. On 2 July 2015, the Member Kuzu referred to this......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Shortly and well, we have done so and since January 1st 2016, the Social Insurance Bank anticipates this regulation. We have informed your Chamber accordingly. I think we can still say a lot of words about this, but I am pleased that your Chamber supports this proposal by a large majority. This is also apparent from the overwhelming majority of support for Mr Voordewind's and Mr Bishop's motion. I do not wish to comment briefly on what has been discussed throughout the preliminary stage. I see Mr De Jong getting up. Excuse me, I almost forgot that point. He says from the PVV group that there is no question of a non-Treaty country when it comes to a part that is, of course, also at issue here. The cabinet and Mr De Jong disagree on this, because we believe that the issue should be settled properly for war victims. For the rest, from 1 January 2016 it will be equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u8	Thanks to the Secretary of State. About the bill, the PVV says, "It's really good it's coming." After all, how can you confront single victims of war with a discount? We're just not gonna do that. So there is no discussion about that. What we do consider to be the subject of discussion is the fact that Israel is Israel. For us, the actual administration that Israel has in the areas I have just mentioned, Samaria, Judea, eastern Jerusalem, the Golan, means that if you live there, you should not actually be faced with the same discount, whether you are a war victim or not. That's totally unrelated to that for a while. Why? Because it's been like this for years. So why can't the Secretary of State simply say: Israel has the administration there, which the cabinet recognises, and that is why we also see that area as an area that is simply covered by the treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u9	Mr De Jong is asking a little about the familiar road, if I may put it this way. Mr De Jong just implied in his question: for us "us" then is the PVV "us" it is so that Israel has the administration over these areas. However, we do not share that view. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u10	Too bad. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution in the second time in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u11	The Secretary of State may, for ease of reference, opt not to enter the preliminary stage. I have just tried in my contribution to describe in detail what has gone wrong over the past ten years. I would like to put at least one more question to the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State see the amendment of this bill with the transitional regime as formalization of ten years of abuses on the file, in which I have just stopped at length, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u12	I would like to say to Mr Kuzu that this whole preliminary journey does not deserve the beauty prize on all fronts. Can I express myself like this? But from 1 January 2016, it is crystal clear how the situation is regulated for everyone involved. I am glad that the war victims, wherever they are in the world, cannot be reduced to their AOW in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u13	From the words of the Secretary of State, I would point out that she has now indeed clarified the period from 1 January 2016, but that she does not deny that many things have gone wrong in the preliminary stage. In my view, it is the case that a minister or a secretary of state is responsible for the files and the situation of the predecessors. Does the Secretary of State not think that it is too easy to ignore the preliminaries, in which blunder has been piled on blunder, where mistakes have been made and where wrongs have come to light about which there is no mention at all at all at this time? This is a cover-up. As far as we're concerned, the bottom stone is far from upstairs. Is the Secretary of State not responsible for her role in ensuring that there is clarity about what has gone wrong in the past, so that the same mistakes will not be made in the future on another file? I have one final question, Mr President, which saves me a second round of interruptions. Does the Secretary of State not agree that it is unfair for this area, for the illegal Israeli settlements, to have a transitional arrangement in place? Now we are dealing with other countries where for years, including the last ten years, people have been severely punished for mistransmitting a house number or an address. In this way, they were fined tens of thousands of euros under the Fraud Act. Fraud is a bad thing. But shouldn't fraud in all cases be treated in a proportionate and equal manner? Why does the Secretary of State make a distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u14	Can I start with that last one? As Mr Kuzu says, fraud is wrong and must always be combated, because fraud is at the root of our social security system. Where our Social Insurance Bank has made mistakes, and this has happened, as has not only been changed frequently and extensively with the Chamber, I feel that I, as Secretary of State, am responsible not only for the Social Insurance Bank but also for the people affected by those mistakes of the SVB. That is why, as Mr Kuzu rightly states, we felt that this transitional arrangement should be introduced in this way for this group of people. I do not think that is unfair at all. I agree with Mr Kuzu that fraud must be combated, but where the government makes a mistake, it must also be corrected by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u15	And the first part of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u16	That was the first part of the question, because Mr Kuzu asked me why the matter did recover for that part of the world, while we did not do it for the rest of the world. That is because in that part there are obvious errors made by the Social Insurance Bank. That's what I stand for. So we also have to fix those mistakes, with our heads held high towards the people involved. The great thing is that with that you really protect the war victims everywhere in the world from discounts on the AOW. That is also because of your Chamber; honor who deserves credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u17	You seemed to be considering placing an interruption, Mr Kuzu. I would like to give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u18	I think I can go on all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u19	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u20	No. We have until 8:15, and I can make up for that time, but I'll spare you that, Mr. President. The Secretary of State says the Social Insurance Bank made mistakes in the past. A repair has now been done to correct the error, but that also means that mistakes have been made for ten years and that people have been wrongly paid benefits for ten years. Even though we are dealing with some of the victims of war, we are also talking about people who have wrongly used benefits. I also know that a benefit will be recovered if you use it unjustly. That is what we do with people here in the Netherlands who act fraudulently, and that is what we do with people abroad. Why don't we do that in this one case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u21	Our implementation organisations look very closely at such a case. Has there really been any obvious fraud by the people involved, or has some things not been implemented as they should have been? I don't think it's wrong, then, to put it on his Gronings, that you're also looking from the government to see if you need to fix things. We've done that in an orderly fashion. I have already met Mr Kuzu in a way, because he has outlined what has been going on throughout the course and I have said that things have not gone well. I want to take responsibility for that, too. That is why this repair is now being completed in this way. Once again, I am glad that this will also take the war victims completely out of the wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u22	Mr Kuzu, let us agree that I assume that you do not wish to place an interruption if you do not walk to the interrupting microphone. You look at me, but I'm not sure what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u23	Locking up. There is clearly a double measure. I think that we are far too easily ignoring the injustice that has taken place over the last ten years. That is why I will table a motion to conduct a parliamentary inquiry, a quick scan to get the facts back on the table. Then we will see which parties vote in favour and vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u24	May I respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u25	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u26	There is no double measure. I would like to make that very clear. I honestly think you should fix things that didn't go well. That's what happened. I'm not the type to measure with double sizes. I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u27	I am not saying that the Secretary of State did, but the policy was aimed at it. I repeat myself, but ten years it has gone that way for the people who lived in illegal Israeli settlements. For people living in other parts of the world, there has been a very different way of doing things. I think we're talking about a double size. That has nothing to do with your person, Madam Secretary of State. It has to do with the policy in which your predecessors also had a dubious role. I mentioned them: Mark Rutte as Secretary of State already knew about them in 2001, Aart Jan de Geus of the CDA, Minister of Social Affairs and Employment and Frans Timmermans as Minister of Foreign Affairs. A lot of people have played a role in that. If this isn't a double size, then I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u28	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u29	No, but I would like to say again, with your permission, that there is clarity about the clean slate. This cabinet is very much in favour of this; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u30	This put an end to the government's first term. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u31	Mr. Chairman. As announced, the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that this legislative amendment is based on a long-standing dossier, with serious suspicions that there was a deliberate violation of the law, pressure from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment on the SVB to withhold information or not to use it, diplomatic pressure from Israel and lobby offices, incomplete information provision to the Chamber and administrative failure;]] [[noting that a lawyer's office has therefore filed a report to the President of a possible criminal offence committed by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment;]] [[believes that the bottom stone should emerge;]] [[Calls on the Bureau to carry out a parliamentary inquiry into the state of play regarding the payment of AOW benefits to AOW beneficiaries resident or resident in Israel's occupied territory, hearing at least:]] [[the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and his relevant predecessors;]] [[the responsible administration at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment and its relevant predecessors;]] [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his relevant predecessors;]] [[the authors of the declaration against the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Azarkan and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34571-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u32	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer, but it is disappointing. I had hoped that the Secretary of State would say: Israel is a friend of ours and the area that Mr De Jong has just mentioned, we indeed recognise Israel as an area where Israel has authority. So does Israel, but the Secretary of State doesn't want that. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to cease the occupation of Israel, to recognise the de facto government of Israel in Judea, Samaria, Eastern Jerusalem and the Golan on that basis and to agree with Israel with the aim of lifting the AOW export restrictions in this area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members De Jong, De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34571-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u33	Mr. Chairman. As you said, I need to speak about the first motion, the motion in part No. 6, not to judge. I'd like to leave that to the Bureau. It may be clear that I have the second motion, the motion in part No. 7 of the PVV, detachment. On the basis of international law, Israel has no sovereignty over the areas we are discussing. It may be clear that that is why I reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-16.u34	The motions that have just been tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and thank the Members for their contributions.
