ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal for the adoption of the Convention between the Netherlands and Zambia on the avoidance of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, in part No. 34503. I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	In 1977, the Netherlands signed a tax treaty with Zambia. Zambia is a rich country when it comes to raw materials, but a poor country when it comes to services that citizens need, such as education, health care and infrastructure. The tax treaty with the Netherlands allows companies to benefit from the wealthy Zambia and to pay less or no tax, because they have positioned an intermediate company in the Netherlands in which the profit ends. Why do we have tax treaties? The government says that that is to prevent companies from having to pay double taxes on their profits. But something else is happening: companies park their profits in the country where they have to pay the least tax. Treaties also provide for lower rates than those which the population or businesses in that country have to pay themselves. I ask the Secretary of State: why is that actually so, because the aim is to prevent double taxation? Today we are discussing a modernised tax treaty with Zambia. It's just how you look at it. I don't see a modern treaty, but a hopeless old-fashioned predatory agreement. Zambia's rights to levy taxes with the rates they also use for their own businesses and citizens are severely limited. The many companies active in Zambia to gain the mineral resources will be given the opportunity to shift profits without leaving too much tax in the already poor country. I think that's a goddess. Why did these negotiations actually take place? Who took the initiative? Who suggested lowering the rates? Why did these negotiations only last four days? Did the Zambians have as much expertise at the table as the Dutch? Which company, through a Dutch company seat, does most of the business in Zambia? Who exactly insisted on a new treaty? The Secretary of State says that in the negotiations with developing countries he has tried not to reduce withholding taxes too much. How is this compatible with the reduction in the withholding tax of dividends from 15% to 5% and the reduction in royalties from 20% to 7.5%? Does the Secretary of State call that modern? It is the withdrawal of tax revenue from a country that needs it, the SP Group believes. This is not modern and it is also a violation of the international agreements reached at the United Nations and the OECD. Who exactly are we doing this for? Can the Secretary of State give me an overview of the companies and the nature of the companies that make use of this tax treaty? The Secretary of State does not have to come to me with the remark that reducing taxes on profits stimulates investment in a country. Zambia is an excellent country full of raw materials. Rich in soil, but too poor for a good education system or for health care. The draining of soil, without leading to the building up of things that citizens need, is not an investment in a country, but again a gutterspear. In April 2016, the world woke up with the revelations of tax evasion and tax evasion. A Panamanian law firm had leaked a huge amount of data through a whistleblower. The world learned that the law firm Mossack Fonseca facilitated the war in Syria. Through all kinds of intermediate companies in the name of stromens, it was made possible that weapons were sold to and purchased by people with whom, according to the international penalty lists, financial business could not be done. Another example was how bribes were paid through businesses to buy cheap iron ore mines in Africa. Everyone smelled that it wasn't right with this investor, but ran into a wall of e.g. with once again all kinds of stromens that covered the trail to the rich bribe. Because of this leak, this man is now looking at prosecution. Law will prevail, but not by the financial sector. We also learned that companies and wealthy people use structures with companies in different countries not to pay taxes. Those structures are called legal entities. This can be done illegally, but also legally. In the illegal way, it's called evasion. You may be a criminal offence, but you're almost untraceable because of smart financial constructions that make the financial sector possible for you and put the tax authorities at 10-0 behind. But in the legal way tax treaties are used. Right, tax treaties. It is precisely in the tax treaties that it is agreed between countries that tax is paid in one country or another. A company can shop for the best tax regime. Do you know what it is, Mr. Chairman? People are proud of it. People need to look for as low a tax burden as possible. The same people use our highways and our health care and bring their children to school. But they're proud of it. They're using the mortgage interest deduction. In general, it's people who own a store. But they're proud to pay as little tax as possible. Actually, I think it's a moral that's not modern at all. Mr. Chairman. We have a lot of discussions in this house about refugee flows from Africa and other countries where it is difficult to build a future. Young people are looking for an economic future in Europe. If you know that every year, so every year, in developing countries 200 billion in tax is being evaded, these are figures from the International Monetary Fund. Surely we should do something about that? 200 billion! That is almost the amount of the Dutch budget. And then there are parties in this Chamber who are happy that this is happening, but oh, oh, oh, oh, when people come here and say that they want part of the cake too. That's another gotsp. Have we learned anything from the Panama Papers, such as this Mossack Fonseca leak, or from the LuxLeaks that took place a few years before about the Luxembourg tax arrangements with multinationals? Yes and no. Internationally, it's been agreed that we're really gonna do something right now. For example, agreements were made through the OECD to prevent the erosion of tax.... not paying tax, paying too little tax or shifting tax.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In good English this program is called Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. Our country sat at the table and knew of these agreements, which would be made later than the conclusion of the new tax treaty with Zambia. Unfortunately, our country did not apply these agreements in this agreement with Zambia. I'll ask the Secretary of State why not. Is the Secretary of State prepared to adapt the anti-abuse provisions in this Convention, which are not currently in line with OECD standards? Is he therefore prepared to impose the exemption on directors' remuneration and the fees for technical services under the anti-abuse clause? This is now subject to 0% tax, but does the Secretary of State really think that these two items cannot be used to close down profits or to reduce them on paper so that less profit tax can be paid? I do wonder how a rich country such as Zambia or a rich continent such as Africa actually has so little money for development. I know what that's all about. This is because there is parasitic behaviour of multinationals, generally through our country. Because we have a great function as a transit country. This makes it possible to benefit from the wealth, but not to contribute to the development of these countries. We must be deeply ashamed of that. Can the Secretary of State provide hard evidence that low withholding taxes lead to higher investment? Is he willing to share with the Chamber the investigation on which he apparently bases his statements? My group will not support this treaty because Zambia will not be allowed to invest in healthcare, education and infrastructure. I have been thinking about tabling an amendment to this treaty, but it makes little sense because it is already a result of negotiations. But I do have a question for the Secretary of State. Can he promise on the forthcoming treaty negotiations that he will leave the withholding taxes in developing countries that are nationally committed untouched? Is he willing to use the UN Model Convention more when he concludes treaties? Finally. We get a lot of reports from the Secretary of State. Would he also report annually to the Chamber on the effectiveness of anti-abuse provisions in the treaties concluded by the Netherlands? Because the Netherlands is rich in tax treaties. That is one of the reasons why we are so interested in having a large trust sector and as a transit country. The question is whether that will help the world forward. The question is whether that will help Zambia forward. Actually, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, we are right to speak again about tackling tax avoidance and evasion. The new cabinet is coming up with exciting new initiatives, but we will be discussing them very extensively at another time. I am actually looking forward to the answer to the question of whether the policy of improving bilateral tax treaties with developing countries will continue and will be strengthened in a direction that will further strengthen the fiscal position and revenues of these countries. But we will also have to discuss this with the new cabinet. Now that we see that for the first time in 20 years, the number of people suffering from hunger in the world has grown considerably, both in percentage and in numbers, we need to contribute to higher public revenues in these countries and to a responsible use of them. The bill we are discussing today aims to achieve it through a renewed tax treaty with Zambia. The aim is also to prevent abuse or excessive use of loopholes in the law or between jurisdictions, in order to achieve genuinely fair bilateral agreements. Zambia is heavily dependent on taxes from international companies to invest in much-needed public services for its inhabitants. But who is going to benefit the most from this treaty? Is this treaty so good for the Zambian citizen? Or do we maintain that Zambia is difficult to develop? In order to answer these key questions, I have a series of critical questions to the Secretary of State regarding the cause, process and outcome of the negotiations with Zambia. My first question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees with the analysis, for example that of ActionAid from 2013, that Zambia, which is rich in raw materials such as copper and cobalt, is on a large scale a victim of tax avoidance by multinationals and that this is also facilitated by entities in the Netherlands. If the Secretary of State shares this analysis, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he also believes that the Netherlands plays an important role in such constructions and has done too little to date against them. Will this tax treaty be a decisive blow? Does the Secretary of State think that we as a country should do everything in our power to ensure that multinationals cannot abuse the new treaty? For Zambia, it is important that it can grow sustainably, become more self-reliant and manage itself. That's even better. That is why GroenLinks believes it is important that this tax treaty contributes to those goals. My question to the Secretary of State is what the expected effects are for Zambia on sustainable growth, promoting self-reliance and good governance. Can this be supported by an independent impact assessment? Can this be provided, for example, by the International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation? I am thinking of an assessment that looks not only at the benefits for companies, but also at the disadvantages for Zambia, such as shifting investment flows and tax losses. In short, look carefully at what this means for sustainable growth, with emphasis on sustainable growth. This new treaty includes anti-abuse provisions. Of course, GroenLinks welcomes that. It's good to see that the cabinet is trying to work on this. However, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the anti-abuse provisions in the Treaty are fully in line with the action points in the OECD's BEPS programme. And if this is not the case, I would like to hear which action points are not met and why not. I know that the Netherlands is now obliged to comply with the OECD guidelines. Time is not an argument, of course, because the cabinet has now had two years to get the treaty to fit in with all the points of action in the BEPS plan. I am particularly curious to see whether there are no additional possibilities to better anchor action line six, on the principal purpose test, in this treaty. I'd also like to dive a little more into the content. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the withholding taxes applied in this new treaty are not too low, as Mr Leijten also asked. Why is there no withholding tax on directors' fees and fees for technical services? Why was this chosen? Isn't it true that withholding taxes are countering the shift in profits and that withholding taxes are one of the few ways in which Zambia can collect taxes on profitable activities in the country? Does the Secretary of State consider that the above factors still mean that the door to profit shifting in the Netherlands is wide open? If not, how does he explain that in other commodity-rich countries, such as Malawi, there is still a great deal of such a type of profit shifting? Is the new treaty not still an instrument for multinationals to shift profits through the Netherlands to other tax havens? I would like to ask a few questions about the model convention used in the drafting of this convention. It is difficult for developing countries to negotiate with a country like the Netherlands in an equivalent way. They are trying to attract investment to build their country and are willing to give up a lot of tax rights to this end, which does not contribute to the development of the country itself. The new Convention is partly based on the OECD Model Convention, partly on the UN Model Convention. As my colleagues in the VVD rightly pointed out in the written consultation, it is unclear why shopping is so selective from different models. There is no real clear answer to that. I hope the Secretary of State will do that today. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the OECD Model Convention is not suitable for shaping treaties between unequal partners, such as the Netherlands and Zambia, because it limits too much the tax rights of the developing country? Does the Secretary of State agree with GroenLinks that the Netherlands should apply the UN Model Convention as a minimum in order to ensure that a country such as Zambia can effectively tax international companies in their country? Of course, for Zambia too, perhaps the UN Model Convention will not meet all the requirements, but should the Netherlands not have a duty of care to always take the UN Model Convention as a basis for ensuring development objectives, for Zambia and for all other developing countries? Then I'll notice something about the trial. Today, we are calling for much more transparency. Is it not strange, then, that these negotiations take place completely behind closed doors? Does the Secretary of State share the view of GroenLinks that negotiations should be more transparent and stakeholders should be consulted on an interim basis? Why, for example, are NGOs not involved in the creation of such a treaty if they are interested in it? I also mean local NGOs in Zambia. Stakeholders in the Netherlands get and seize many opportunities to interfere with adjustments in our tax system. Does the Secretary of State consider that stakeholders in Zambia have had sufficient opportunity to express their views on this new treaty, for example, or does he consider Zambia's own full responsibility? The Convention also contains a provision on consultation to take place before one of the two States decides not to grant certain benefits, because there might be abuse. The Netherlands, in particular, seems to have insisted on this. Will this not be used in practice to exert undue pressure on Zambia in the near future? What experience do we have with other treaties and countries in this respect? Does this example not confirm that the Netherlands has negotiated more in favour of its own location than Zambia's tax base has strengthened? Mr President, I will conclude. GroenLinks has strong doubts as to whether this treaty should be ratified in its present form. If the Secretary of State cannot remove these doubts, we ask the Cabinet to sit down again with Zambia and to further adapt this treaty and to bring it into line with the development objectives that the Cabinet itself has previously put forward. As far as my group is concerned, the UN Model Convention should be used as a hard lower limit. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I say that the VVD will agree to this tax treaty. I think it is an important step because it also includes anti-abuse measures. That is one of the points the cabinet has indicated that it will actively offer to developing countries. I don't think we should be doing the negotiations here again. I understand Zambia has now agreed. It's always a matter of giving and taking in a negotiation result. In any case, we have one more question for the Secretary of State about the permanent establishment. Something is agreed that the Netherlands would rather not, namely that you are already a permanent establishment when you offer a service in that country for 83 days. We are curious about the consequences and consequences for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Negotiations are always giving and taking, but I note that two parties are negotiating here which are not really equal. Zambia's dependence on the Netherlands and also on a tax treaty is clearly greater than the other way around. I have another question for the VVD. What does the VVD think about a tax treaty agreeing to reduce the tax amounts, the withholding taxes on various cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think Mrs Leijten also knows that we are not very much in favour of withholding taxes. I believe that this is ultimately a negotiated outcome and that it is a good thing that the anti-abuse measures are in place. In my view, this also offers sufficient tools to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	I also know that the VVD is not very much in favour of looking at countries and their development at all, and that it also prefers to shift the development budget back to zero and facilitates the parasitic behaviour of multinationals. However, I find it strange that a tax treaty should allow us to suspend the autonomy of a country. It's about withholding taxes. That is what they decide in democracy. They determine what they need for tax revenues, what Zimbabweans and Zimbabwean companies pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	Zambia!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Sorry, I meant what the Zambian companies and the Zambian people pay in taxes. I find it strange that a treaty that is concluded behind closed doors should be able to disable it. Surely the VVD should say: that affects the autonomy of a country and you should not do that through a tax treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	You're talking about democracies. In my view, these tax treaties, which are drawn up between two countries, also require both parliaments to agree to them. I understand Zambia has done the same by now. That's democracy, too. And when it comes to the issue of the economic development of developing countries, I think that Mrs Leijten is going a little too short. I believe that we are focusing on economic development, trade, strengthening SMEs and that kind of thing to give those developing countries growth opportunities. That you just put pockets of money there, that's just your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	Finally, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	It is not a bag of money if you just make sure that the people who trade with that country or extract soil from the ground, pay a decent tax on it. That's when you give the country its own say. That's a whole different thing. In my view, that is a better way of developing than how you look at it. A democracy determines what the tax rates are. I find it strange that the VVD is then apparently okay that in a negotiation between two countries that are not actually equal, you can just knock that over for a while. Very strange!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	Democracy has also adopted this tax treaty. This is happening both in the Netherlands and Zambia. I think it is very good that this cabinet has made a very active effort to offer developing countries the inclusion of anti-abuse measures in the tax treaties. Perhaps Mrs Leijten should be able to appreciate that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	In itself, I know where the VVD stands when it comes to tackling tax avoidance: slow moving along and if it can stand on the brake for a moment. But I really don't want to talk about that right now. I saw in the written examination of the law the question of why there is actually ad hoc shopping from the various model treaties, from those of the OECD and the UN. I thought that was interesting. There is a very technical answer to that question, but your core question is not answered. I'm just wondering what you're looking at right now. Do you not think it is better to work with the UN Model Convention in the future than with the OECD Model Convention? Isn't it better to base yourself on one treaty instead of shopping on an ad hoc basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	For me, our own policy as laid down in the 2011 Tax Treaty Policy Paper is the starting point. I think that's a very important one. And when it comes to selective shopping, I think GroenLinks is doing the same right now. After all, GroenLinks always refers to the OECD when it comes to tax avoidance on all fronts, and then suddenly it has to be the UN Model Convention, not the OECD Model Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	GroenLinks also points out that developing countries are not really at the table in the OECD process, certainly not in the same way as the developed countries, and that it is therefore good that the UN should pay greater attention to the interests of developing countries and also compensate for the imbalance of power in its model treaty. We have stressed this in the past and will emphasise it in the future. Do you not think it would make more sense to work with a single model treaty and do you not think it would be fairer to apply the UN Model Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	My observation is that GroenLinks does shop very selectively. For me, the policy we have set ourselves here is the tax treaty policy of 2011. Those are the leads. That is how we determine our commitment and the choices for the negotiations. In the end, there will be a result of the negotiations. That's a matter of giving and taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	Finally, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	I am nevertheless disappointed that the VVD Group is looking mainly at the past and does not realise that huge steps have been taken in the BEPS process in recent years. Then you also need to review the policy when it comes to adjusting bilateral tax treaties. Let's start with that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs. De Vries, any response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yes. I think a lot of steps have been taken by this cabinet when it comes to BEPS. In addition, anti-abuse measures have been offered to developing countries. I think that's good. Moreover, we also have a multilateral instrument that has been taken action, so I think that very great steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	No, Mrs. Leijten, you've already interrupted this round. You started it yourself. It's not customary to do this. You've already had three occasions. You can...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mrs De Vries spoke to me in the last answer she gave me and said that I might have to have a little appreciation for the government because it includes anti-abuse provisions in the treaty. If Mrs De Vries wishes to do so, I will appreciate the anti-abuse provisions that have been included, but I regret that this does not apply to all parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's been noted. Thank you. Then we arrived at the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to reply immediately, so I'll give him the floor in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr President, thank you. I remember that my first plenary debate was on the tax treaty with Ethiopia. Possibly the latter is now about Zambia, so that characterizes my career here: a journey through Africa. Treaties. I think I would like to refer to the words of Mrs Leijten, who asked herself the question: why are we actually doing this, these tax treaties? That's an important question. It's true, we have a paper on fiscal treaty policy from 2011. It states that, in order to give a positive boost to economic activities in both countries, we are mainly committed to avoiding double taxation. But there was some added in 2013. In all honesty, I must fully attribute that idea to Mrs Ploumen and Mr Weekers, both of whom are not here in the Chamber. They have said that in the context of more result-oriented development cooperation, including in the tax treaties with 23 developing countries, a few goals must be added. It has come to us that we have stipulated that we want to do something more than just avoid double taxation. We really want to make a very strong effort to combat abuse, and we want to be more generous in those 23 countries where tax arrangements are concerned than we do in the rest of our memorandum on fiscal policy in the Treaty. So we want to grant these countries more productively than we want elsewhere. I'm going to go into that in detail, but that's why this was a Dutch initiative. Zambia hasn't approached us, but it was the other way around. The main objective was to include anti-abuse measures in that treaty. Those negotiations started after the initiative in 2013. There were no anti-abuse measures in that treaty, which is very old. So it was very necessary to include anti-abuse measures. Back then, we had a look at the OECD, but the OECD was not finished. That's the spirit we've been working on. How do we do that? So avoiding double taxation is not the only thing. But the primary choice that has been made with regard to these 23 countries is still to tax corporate profits where added value is created. That is generally a good principle. In the past it must have been true that not all the value created locally was taxed there. There were all kinds of possibilities for avoidance. In itself, the OECD concept of when you call something a permanent establishment, so when you start talking about local added value, is relatively restrictive for these countries. The first choice that has been made is to distribute the charging fees according to the concept of "permanent establishment" and thus to allocate local profits to this by the rules of transfer pricing. Therefore, it is assumed that there too, it is referred to as a "permanent establishment" "a company that makes a profit and where value has been created." That profit must therefore be taxed locally. That is a passage for which we have deviated from the OECD Model Convention and have indeed selectively shopped in the UN Model Convention, because we find a reasonable and productive way of dealing with charging rights in respect of these 23 developing countries. That's one. But if you do, there are still some conditions. I think it's good to call that. If you have a permanent establishment and you have to raise local profits, you should also be able to understand the transfer pricing rules. We can't land that automatically. I must say that the Dutch team did not feel that Zambia was the underlying party. The Netherlands sat with three men at the table and Zambia sat with eight men at the table. The Dutch team was very impressed with the expertise. The Zambians were also technically very well introduced, but they also received assistance in the levy and in the implementation. We all know Tax Inspectors Without Borders. An Englishman and a Norwegian help that service at this time in applying this kind of thing, because on paper it's all nice, but it still has to be applied. The Netherlands has also been involved in diagnostic studies. We also delivered someone to that IRS. The Zambians have participated in training courses, because that is of course necessary. If you say to each other "this is not just a country where profits are attributed to abroad, but value is created here," then you need to professionalise the device there so that they can also determine and tax that profit. The second thing you need is information exchange. So there's been a deal. The legal basis for the exchange of information has been laid. The Netherlands will also provide spontaneous information to Zambia as soon as it appears relevant. That is the first point; that is the basis. The second point I will address later is that the policy towards the 23 developing countries also requires more generous withholding taxes than we have in the memorandum on fiscal policy in the Treaty. I'll get to that in a minute. I will go into all these questions, but I will try to explain why I believe that this is not only a sensible treaty for both countries, and indeed for Zambia, and that it is also useful to ratify it now. The profit is that there are anti-abuse measures in it. But I would also like to warn that we are not going to speak in this Chamber on behalf of the Government of Zambia. I do not want to place this directly on the spokesmen. But there's just a sensible team out there. That's democratically legitimized. Those people can think about it as well as we can. We should not think for them that certain things should have been different, even if they are in agreement with the result at the moment. There is now a treaty that grants more charging rights to Zambia and rather helps to become a mature country, in the sense that local activities create local value and are taxed locally, with 32% profit tax, and that abuse is reduced. That's what's in there. A lot of questions have been asked about that and I just wanted to go through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	There is first an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to make a comment and ask a question. Zambia's economy is less than USD 20 billion. We are at least 40 times larger as an economy, if not more, than Zambia's economy. I can put it on the record that the Secretary of State is talking about not expressing the position of the Government of Zambia, but I also make an explicit distinction between governments and civil society organisations and other stakeholders when it comes to tax avoidance. We are in a fiscal competition between countries. This means that states do not always make the best agreements among themselves, because the competition for attracting foreign investment and companies seems to be more important than providing a solid basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	My question is: do you think that, in addition to the State itself, stakeholders in Zambia have been sufficiently involved in this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	The question has been asked. A lot of interesting questions have been asked. All relevant, not a bad word about that, but when I start asking one question and go straight to the other switch, it gets complicated. I suggest I try to answer the questions as best I can. I wrote everything down myself. I'll go over my notepad and see if I've done everything right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	I do not think it would be a good thing for a Secretary of State to tell the people's representatives that we should not speak for other people. That is what we are doing on a permanent basis. Now I am a representative in the Netherlands, but I am looking at the consequences of Dutch policy abroad. I did that today. So I do not think it is right that the Secretary of State made the remark he made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the withholding taxes. The question has been asked why we should not leave national withholding taxes untouched. I made the remark because it is suggested that Zambia's government would find this in its interest. In all honesty, there's a lot more to it. Mrs Leijten mentioned modern taxes, but withholding taxes are not modern at all. On the contrary, withholding taxes are a highly distorting tax. We have not abolished withholding taxes within the EU for nothing. We don't have those withholding taxes. Source charges lead to double taxation in a variety of ways. Source charges ensure that a certain relationship, in this case between Zambia and the Netherlands, becomes less interesting for, in this case, Dutch investors in Zambia. The Netherlands is the third investor in Zambia, after China and the United Kingdom. Zambians have a lot to do to facilitate these investments. Like about any country in the world, they are ready to increase their efforts to raise local added value and to reduce their tax burden to withholding taxes, even less than they have laid down in their national policies. That's what every country in the world does, and it's in every tax convention. That is also because it benefits both countries. Firstly, the country becomes less attractive to Dutch investments. There is also an interest for the Netherlands, because otherwise a Dutch company in Zambia will have a local disadvantage, which is already the case in relation to a French company in Zambia. The French have all set the withholding taxes to zero, so there is a disadvantage in itself. You don't want that; you want a level playing field from the Netherlands, but you want to be attractive for investments from Zambia. It is not for nothing that we restrict withholding taxes in almost all tax treaties, but also within the EU. We want to limit them less in those 23 developing countries than elsewhere. We want to go to where we can go, to give them a tax right in advance, but that is a charge based purely on the fact that it is levied on value which is not necessarily created in that country. We would like to do that for these countries. We have an exhaustive list of 23 countries. And that is not only in the interests of that country. It is asked: gut, you can give the exact model that shows it. No, I can't. There are very extensive economic discussions about this and you can discuss it with all kinds of big institutions on this earth for weeks to come. But both countries, like many other countries, have come to the conclusion in tax questions that excessive withholding taxes do not work or even have disadvantages in the economic relationship. So we want to go to some extent to the limit in the case of ordinary withholding taxes. The package that has now been agreed is in line with the forerunners, but is more generous than the back runners. In this case, I would like to make no mistake about the French version of the Treaty on European Union. So that's what we're running for. For the rest, we have dealt with this in a neat, generous manner without disturbing it. This is different for a withholding tax on services. The withholding tax on technical services is a suggestion that I know is contained in the UN Convention. This is indeed selective shopping, but shopping is always selective. You can do that; you can choose what you like best. That is also political, and politics is also selective shopping. A selective shopping would be worse. With this withholding tax, we have chosen not to do so, because these withholding taxes on services are actually very strange vehicles. To levy withholding taxes on values not created there. In that sense, they are not modern. But it is in any case a levy on the net fruit of assets. Interest is a net fruit of capital. Dividend as well. Royalty's are also the net fruits of all the costs and revenues that have gone into research. But a withholding tax on services is just a charge on a gross payment. The economic basis is not very strong. It also inevitably leads to double charges. So that's not wise. They didn't do it in the new treaty with the UK, and the Zambians have quite a good relationship with the UK. So it was really chosen, by this government, but also by Zambia's, not to do those technical service fees. As a result, a question has also been asked by Mr Van der Lee about the levy on directors' wages. I gotta tell you, I can't even bring that home. Which director is rewarded for what and how should it be included in a withholding tax? This is an unfamiliar figure. In short, the stakes include two things. In addition to these generous withholding taxes, the permanent establishment with Zambia has been explicitly chosen for the UN model. This must, of course, result in the economy becoming more and more an economy that creates an increasing proportion of these values locally. As in any other country, they should be able to be proud of the locally produced values on which they have their own profit tax, in this case 32%. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. One of the things we've done is focus on anti-abuse. That was the reason, and that's what it all started with. The 23 developing countries almost all had treaties without anti-abuse provisions, and that does not help such a country. We have worked towards the most modern provisions in force at the time. The limitation on benefits was found too complex. Before that, on the Dutch side was actually a lot of understanding. So it's a main purpose test. That's the forerunner of the principal purpose test. There is no difference in substance either. It all has the same effect on interest, on dividends, on royalties; that's the same thing. The principal purpose test goes treaty-wide. No one on the team, including me, has been able to make a very clear picture of whether there are any categories that you can add to it. The main purpose test really captures the major routes of abuse. But in all honesty, if, of course, we had negotiated two years later, we would have just joined the OECD directly. Not a bad word about that. Well, what did we do before that? We have notified other countries with whom you still want to automatically agree to anti-abuse measures for our multilateral instrument......................................................................................................................................................................................... If Zambia also puts its check mark, we will be automatically upgraded to the OECD. But the treaty is now here for a time, Zambia is now in agreement, it would be a bit of a blow to Zambia's face to say: well, we have changed our minds. So it can always be nicer, that I acknowledge, the commitment is to settle that through that multilateral instrument, but let us now proceed with the anti-abuse measure contained in the treaty. My proposal is really to hurry up with what's going on and then just, as our policy is, to upgrade through that multilateral instrument. That would really be my call. There is a real need for anti-abuse measures in these countries. That was also the reason to do this. In other words, the main purpose test and the principal purpose test have a very strongly overlapping, if not almost equal effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	This brings me to a question I have asked, which the Secretary of State may still be addressing. In this context, I would like to ask why this consultation was called for, and I understand that it was also called for in Dutch, in the Treaty when it came to applying those anti-abuse provisions. It sounds a bit like the Netherlands should first give permission to the Zambians to make real use of it. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	Well, this is an operational question I don't know the answer to. That's what I'm asking someone who's really close to that. Nor was I aware that this question had been asked before. The question seems new to me. But maybe he used other words I did recognize back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	I just asked that question in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u39	No, I believe the speaker without a doubt. For Zambia, this means that we have anti-abuse measures as of 1 January 2018, almost according to the latest insights with the possibility to upgrade that last step. It means that they are much more likely to gain local profits by means of this permanent establishment, by way of derogation from the OECD, according to the UN. That's what it gets for you. On which, of course, Mrs De Vries asks what the result is for the Netherlands. Yeah, what's in it for the Netherlands? It is the policy of the Netherlands to do so with regard to the 23 developing countries. This automatically means that a larger share of the profits will be allocated to Zambia in the total chain. These, of course, are not profits which can then be taxed in the Netherlands. That's one. Secondly, of course, in the overall chain Zambia has a higher rate of tax on profits than the Netherlands, so overall the burden will increase. But in all honesty: if we really think that this local added value is there and that they need to be taxed according to their democratic rules, that is a fact of life, then we simply have to be honest that we believe that each country should be allowed to set its own rates. That is what the Zambians do, and we have nothing to say about it. And that the tax burden gradually increases as there is more local added value, seems to me good for the Zambians, but for the Dutch just a logical fact of life to be accepted. There's nothing else I can do about that. Mr Van der Lee also asked how the stakeholders are doing. These negotiations are under the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. When I stand here, I also speak on behalf of the Foreign Minister, but I would like that to be clear. The procedures for this are not very different from those for aviation and customs. We negotiate endless treaties with other countries. The idea is to make it clear well in advance that negotiations will take place. A plan for negotiation shall be published. Stakeholders have an extensive opportunity to report what they have in mind for the journey. But we're not gonna do that during the trial. We don't do that in other cases. We were out in four days now, but it could have taken 108 days without effort, and you don't want that. I'm really pretty strict about this. Getting everyone involved in the process isn't a recipe we're gonna use to score a lot of points. I'll check my list, because I haven't answered any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u40	I have one more question about this. Let everyone negotiate with us is the other extreme again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u41	I agree with Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u42	The point is that we are presenting a draft law through a consultation process; that is quite normal in the Netherlands too. Isn't that something we could do in this area? That's just an intermediate step in the process. We don't have to do the extreme by putting everyone at the table; I didn't argue for that at all. Can the Secretary of State promise that such a consultation step will now be incorporated into the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u43	We have captured this in a different way, for which the memorandum is the Fiscal Treaty policy. In it is shared with the Chamber and tuned what we do. A very commendable letter was received from Weekers and Ploumen on the 23 developing countries. It contains the framework and we work according to that framework. In this context, we will always take into account the latest insights of the OECD. That's all in there. If Mr Van der Lee criticises that, that is the point of reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u44	I have no criticism of what we can do in the Netherlands. I am concerned about the extent to which stakeholders in Zambia can become involved in such a process. It is particularly important for them that there should be a form of consultation on such a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yes, but it is already open to all NGOs to comment on our memorandum on fiscal treaty policy or on policy towards the 23 developing countries. They can do that in advance. That is why they can, of course, approach any of the parliaments. For none of these reasons, I am setting a fence, except for the interim steps in the negotiations, the conditions of which are clear in advance. I oppose that, because I think it is unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u46	A brief comment by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have one more comment. I have a past in NGOs myself, and that is why I know how limited the resources are, especially when it comes to local NGOs. It is precisely in order to achieve a fairer playing field that it is important to create and promote space in those countries as well. We can and must play a part in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u48	This is a source of my curiosity, especially as regards the personal experience of Mr Van der Lee, even though that may not be something for this debate. How is it that there can be no full position or position of NGOs in the preliminary stage? The conditions of the Netherlands and possibly those of the Zambians are known, because this is not their first treaty either. Everyone knows the choices that can be made here. There are two model contracts available all over the world. Surely that must be possible, a full contribution? I do not see any restraint in the NGOs I get the documents from, at any rate, to come up with views at every stage of the process. We would be curious about it in itself, but I will stick to this answer, which I am also giving on behalf of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u49	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u50	I have now answered Mr Van der Lee's question about the consultation. Consultation doesn't mean permission here. It has been agreed that if parties undertake cross-border manoeuvres, they will let the other party know and enable it to verify the facts. That's it. Therefore, no permission from the Netherlands is required. The tax authorities in Zambia are completely autonomous and do not need any permission from the Netherlands for anything. But it is good to inform each other and it is good to use each other when checking the facts, because the Netherlands too may have something to add to these facts now and then. It's called information exchange. Mr. Chairman. I feel like I've gone into a lot of things. I have not gone into things and I am not going into them either, because I have said what I said about them at an earlier stage. I cannot agree or disagree with ActionAid on the scale of tax avoidance in all kinds of cases in the past. Nor am I going to test exactly what the effects are for Zambia, when it comes to their self-reliance and their good governance. However, it is the Dutch government's policy to enable them to raise local values over more locally created values. This undoubtedly contributes to self-reliance. I consider the tax avoidance clauses even more important, but it is simply beyond my ability to quantify them in advance. I believe I have had the questions with this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u51	I think there are still questions open when I see Mrs Leijten like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u52	For which companies does the government do this? What sectors? I've asked twice about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yeah, but I don't know the answer to that. Tax treaties are open to everyone. I'm not going to name individual companies. I didn't look for that either, and I don't know the answer. I am not going to look for that either, because then I have to predict which taxpayer is going to make use of it. That's not my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u54	You can actually look at sectors. The Secretary of State is also boasting that we are the third investor in that country and that is why we are so important. Then you also know, in general, what are the sectors that would supposedly invest a lot there? Are they actually investing in Zambia or are they simply clearing the ground and taking advantage of it here? I'm curious about that. If the Secretary of State can say that we are the third investor, that sounds nice, but then not in which sectors of investment, then that is a bit thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u55	We are not talking here about investment policy towards Zambia. It doesn't say the Minister of Economic Affairs either. There are all kinds of sectors in which we are bigger and smaller, but to what extent they use this tax convention and to what extent they have a benefit or a disadvantage. I don't know whether, if I were to investigate, I'd ever find a sensible answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mrs Leijten, I would like to conclude by saying a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u57	You're signing a tax treaty with a developing country. You don't do that to every developing country. We have done this with 23 developing countries. Then there are interests in the game. We're not naive. Whose interests do we serve here? That's an essential question I can ask here, isn't it? I find it very strange that the government should say: we do not want to know, we are not going to investigate it, and if we are going to investigate it, I do not find it interesting. You don't make a tax treaty like that for nothing. I just want to know what forces are working in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u58	The forces involved in the background are the broad parliamentary backwind given to the memorandum of the Treaty Tax Policy and the support that was given here in the Chamber for the policy towards those 23 developing countries. That's exactly what we based ourselves on. I would be wrong if I were to take into account all kinds of specific interests of specific taxpayers in the construction of a particular treaty if I were to abide by the frameworks of the government. That would be weird, wouldn't it? Nor do I see any deviating clauses that a specific taxable person could reasonably be behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mrs Leijten, I think you disagree, but you still have a second period in which you can give your opinion. The Secretary of State came to the end of his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you. Then I look at the Chamber: is there a need for a second term? That's the case. I shall now give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. In 1977, the initial tax treaty between Zambia and the Netherlands was concluded. That happened for a reason. It wasn't like someone in the Netherlands put a pin on the map and said: we're going to do that with Zambia; we don't do it with other countries. There was a reason for that. That's what I asked the Secretary of State. What companies are they? If the Secretary of State doesn't want to name these companies, can he tell us which industries they are? I think I can draw it. Zambia is rich in raw materials, so it is the extractive industry, yes. Then it's interesting to know how much tax these companies pay. I think so. Are we going to allow Zambia to develop itself with its wealth? Or do we say no, if too much tax is paid, will a country become less interesting to invest in? Zambia is interesting because of its resources in the ground. If Zambia were proud, it would say: if you came here to take our wealth out of the ground, you would pay more taxes. I'd advise them. After all, it belongs to those people. "We want to develop, we want education for children, we want to build roads, we want health care." We got a note from ActionAid. The Secretary of State doesn't want to respond to that either. On the front page, it says that Leonie "I think that's her name," but maybe I misremembered her name "I want to be a banker." Only, she can't go to school because there's no money for chairs. Well, I wouldn't be so quick to advise people to be a banker, but that girl has ambition and wants to be something. But, yeah, she can't learn that well because there are no chairs. Then we say in a tax treaty: you have agreed tax rates with your citizens and your businesses, but Dutch companies have to pay less tax. We do it because France does it, just like the UK. Yes, thank you the cuckoo! Then let's keep our backs straight and set an example. "They're doing it, too, so I'm doing it." I think it's international policy of lickvestje. That's why I'm coming to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, during negotiations on tax treaties, the Netherlands is committed to reducing withholding taxes;]] [[Whereas lowering withholding taxes reduces tax revenues for developing countries, making it more difficult for them to build up necessary provisions;]] [[calls on the Government not to conclude tax treaties reducing the rates of national withholding taxes of developing countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34503-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u63	I don't know if the next motion is necessary, but the Secretary of State can explain that himself. He said: 'If both Zambia and the Netherlands claim to comply with the OECD standards and we tick them, then we automatically comply with them with this treaty, then it is, as it were, upgraded'. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. If she's unnecessary, I'll let you know. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the anti-abuse provisions contained in the Tax Convention with Zambia do not comply with OECD standards;]] [[calls on the Government to align the anti-abuse provisions in the Tax Convention with Zambia with OECD standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34503-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u64	I asked for something else that I didn't get an answer to. Since I didn't want to interrupt permanently, I'm now tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, in tax treaties with developing countries, is committed by default to the inclusion of anti-abuse provisions;]] [[Whereas it is not known how often these are invoked to prevent abuse;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually on how often anti-abuse provisions are invoked to prevent abuse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34503-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for his reply. Of course, we can argue about this for a long time. It's always a question of whether the glass is half empty or half full. Actually, I think this glass is too empty. We do not often conclude a new bilateral tax treaty with another country. We have seen in recent years that there is a lot of movement in this area. I would prefer this to be fully taken into account in the new treaty and to see more leaning at the lower limit of the UN Model Convention. Just do it right at once instead of half-baked as is likely to happen now. I would therefore like to make two motions. My own experience of working in developing countries, in the field of tension within governments and between stakeholders and governments there, is that it is important that we facilitate people from other countries to become more involved in the development of this type of treaties. My first motion concerns that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas stakeholders in addition to Parliament should play an important role in negotiating and final ratification of tax treaties;]] [[Whereas negotiations on tax treaties take place mainly behind closed doors without an interim consultation;]] [[considers that Parliament and other stakeholders should be able to influence the establishment of these tax treaties;]] [[calls on the Government to make negotiations on tax treaties more transparent in future and to consult stakeholders in the interim on the basis of provisional treaty texts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34503-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u67	I have another motion. The discussion also covered the questions "what are we taking as a measure or as a basis?" And "are we going to shop ad hoc or are we taking the best base?'. I really prefer the latter. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that both the Netherlands and developing countries benefit from effective taxation worldwide;]] [[calls on the Government to use the UN Model Convention as a lower limit in negotiations with developing countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34503-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u68	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for his second answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do one more sigh I've done before. Once again, I do not intend to pin anything on Members of Parliament, but my sigh is that we should not think that we know here what is good for Zambia. Not everything we make up here, the Zambians find. Motions are being tabled here which would probably not be adopted in the Zambian Parliament. So once again, my sigh is that we must talk about these negotiations in a sensible way, but bearing in mind their interests and their views on their interests. As far as Mrs Leijten is concerned, there is nothing against Zambia putting a fair price or a levy on raw materials, but we are not talking about that. That's not what tax treaties are about. That's not a treaty issue. Then there is the question of those sectors. We work here according to what we find fair principles. What are the sectors now may not be the sectors. I really do not think that we should attribute this type of thing to specific taxpayers. That's really going the wrong way. I would not like that, and I think Mrs Leijten would certainly not want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u70	The Secretary of State speaks of "we," and then I don't feel addressed. I do not think that these tax treaties are so honest, especially for those countries that still want to develop themselves. In the first period, I have also said that I think that these are some kind of predatory agreements. I would really like to advise the Zambian Government, although you often see in those countries that there is also a gap between the political elite and that which is good for the population, so that the companies that come there simply pay the tax that it also imposes on its own citizens. I did not mention Zambia in the motion. I said in the motion that it would be a principle that we, as the Netherlands, should honour, because we conclude tax treaties and have a broad network of treaties. This makes it interesting for international companies to do business through the Netherlands. I would welcome it if we were to lay down the principle that we are not going to be under it in the case of developing countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u71	Then I do not think that we would conclude many tax treaties, because then the countries themselves would probably not see their feet in them at some point. I shall move on to the motions, but only after I have addressed Mr Van der Lee's interesting question of principle. He asked: is the glass half full or half empty now? I think the glass is full, but the lemon on the edge is still missing. I am motivated to ensure that it reaches the current OECD level. For that, I think the MLI route is extremely good and efficient. The difference is very small, but the main thing is the Dutch government's commitment. I'm getting to the motions. On the Leijten/Karabulut motion in part No. Seven, I think I've spoken enough. I'm gonna have to dissuade this one. The Leijten/Karabulut motion in part No. 8 is interestingly worded: "calls on the government to ensure that the anti-abuse provisions... are in line with OECD standards." If that means breaking open an already ratified treaty and starting new negotiations, I do not feel like it. But the explicit commitment in the MLI is to make this happen exactly. In that sense, I can mention the motion for a resolution supporting the policy, but that is also a little faint. This is a firm statement by Mrs Leijten, but also by Mr Van der Lee. His name is not included in this motion, but I think he has put forward this idea very clearly in his direction. In that sense, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber or even recommend it with some enthusiasm. Can I do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u72	I told you at the filing I'd love to withdraw the motion if it isn't necessary. I do not like unnecessary motions. If the Secretary of State says he made the commitment and he's just gonna do it, the motion isn't necessary. He can take over the motion for form, but I can also withdraw it. In my view, this is different in material terms, and I am looking at Mr Van der Lee, but I have decided to simply withdraw the motion, on condition that we hear from the Secretary of State how it went with the MLI route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u73	It's just another thing. Maybe this is where we're chasing the facts. We actively registered Zambia for the MLI and transferred to that country that we invite them to do so. But here again, it is now up to Zambia. The warm recommendation goes that way. We have invited them, active and on our initiative. With this state of affairs, I believe that this is an objective that I share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u74	Since the Leijten/Karabulut motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u75	On the Van der Lee/Diks motion on item No. 10 I think I've said enough. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u76	The Leijten/Karabulut motion will be put to the vote at the next voting time. 9 over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u77	I'm gonna save the motion. 9 over? That wouldn't be good! But indeed, I do. That's not neat. I've been told by the IRS that this motion is unfeasible. In my view, this is not very productive either, because the main effect of anti-abuse provisions is preventive. So people don't start doing that anymore, because they run into the lights. So this is not a viable map. Yeah, if you hire enough people for it, you can do anything at some point, but that's not socially responsible. I must therefore discourage that motion, in which I share the curiosity about how well this all works. I also think that we should be on permanent alert. A serious fight against tax avoidance never has a status quo, because every time they come up with something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u78	The Secretary of State says that he is actually curious about how these anti-abuse provisions work, but that this cannot actually be reported to the Chamber, because the Tax Administration cannot handle it. Is there any other way of keeping us informed about the operation of these provisions? Because apparently they are so important that they re-negotiate all kinds of treaties. That's what the Secretary of State says: I'm doing something good. We consider that to be: not yet sufficient. Then you re-open those treaties to those anti-abuse provisions and then you couldn't report on them. Is there still a middle ground in there? If it is not possible annually, the motion can of course be modified. I am more concerned with getting a little insight into how this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u79	In my opinion, the fight against tax avoidance is different, because anti-abuse measures are mainly preventive. That's what you're always doing to settle the last war. An anti-abuse clause was therefore the outcome of the previous war. In the abuse and the avoidance, there's always something new. People keep making up new things. So we have a more and more covering network of people, the OECD, of people who are constantly watching for what's new. There are also quite far-reaching proposals, for example to force advisors to sign up for new constructions. So we should not focus on reporting on the previous war. We have to watch the new war all the time. That's where it comes from all the time. Every tax plan, every tax plan, I'm fixing. I think that will always be the case. That's what we have to do. For this, infrastructure has become impressively better in recent years. The fracture area was 2015. Then we agreed with 100 countries on a large file. How do you make it up? With four lots it takes 108 days. This took two years, but with 100 countries. That's the way. We have to keep doing this and we have to force more and more parties to tell us what they have come up with now. We need to think about this: what do we think is reasonable, what was the intention of the legislator and what is really happening? For every Tax Plan but also internationally, that is the tune of the day. That's the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u80	Yes, but still, I can imagine that with anti-abuse provisions, you'll certainly find something that you can see coming to the next war. So what the Secretary of State says here about the next war, I say at our service. It is also interesting that he calls tax avoidance and tax evasion "a war."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yes, I can agree with that, but apparently these provisions are not often invoked, because there is a preventive effect. I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss in his department how to inform the Chamber if those anti-abuse provisions are invoked. Then I can continue this motion, because I would love to adapt her in such a way that she can be executed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u83	The curiosity of Mrs Leijten and mine runs parallel. In addition, I say that every time such a provision is invoked and used, it will happen less and less in relation to its preventive effect, but that story I have already kept has something where it does work. Then you've got something that worked out and where you don't have a problem. This means that you are generating an information stream of all things where there is no problem, but I want to know precisely in abuse situations which things are a problem, so where the provisions do not work. The real search in the world is for a reporting system, getting information about what doesn't work yet. That's the big fight, but we're going to see that because of the disclosure formulas, we're going to have that information flow more and more on the table. I would like to focus my efforts on that. That's what we agreed on. I have already promised once that we will discuss with the Chamber annually emerging new constructions or forms of rulings that we have not seen before and perhaps the beginning of a new ingenuity. 'Cause there it is. That's the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u84	I note for a moment that Mrs Leijten hinted at holding her motion. Is she holding the motion or is that premature at this stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u85	I need to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u86	Fine, then the motion will just stand. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u87	On the motion in part No. 10 I went in. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u88	Van der Lee on the motion on item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u89	Allow me, Mr. Chairman, but I find this difficult. Surely it is a good use in itself to at least introduce an internet consultation for such an essential tax treaty? You don't want that. Suppose the opposite happens and a country like Zambia says: fine, we're going to start the negotiations, but we're building up a moment like that. Are you going to resist that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u90	I don't object to anything, but maybe the Secretary of State will. Do you really want to speak through the chairman, Mr Van der Lee? The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u91	That is a very hypothetical case, of which I cannot accurately assess the situation and the way things are going. In all seriousness: my general answer would be that the country with which you are negotiating obviously has an impact on the course of those negotiations. If there are trial wishes of a particular country, then that is something that needs to be discussed very seriously and that cannot be opposed a priori. We are dealing with another fully-fledged treaty partner. He also has wishes about content and process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u93	I don't know if that's productive. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u94	I conclude from that that the Secretary of State believes that, if he is expressed, that wish should actually be met in principle. But that would also make the reverse possible, namely that the Netherlands would simply express that wish and the Secretary of State would simply change his opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u95	I'm sorry, what am I asked? No, my judgment on this motion is what it is. I'll just say I keep thinking that if there's a model, there's a note and a letter that indicates the frameworks, there's obviously contact with NGOs about that. Finance and Foreign Affairs hold regular consultations with NGOs and companies on treaty policy and commitment, but this is indeed not the case in the interim. I really can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u96	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u97	Then the motion to part No. 11. I've just declared myself a big supporter of selective shopping. We're assuming OECD, except for the 23 developing countries. For this we want to be more generous in all kinds of ways, and that sometimes leaves us shopping out of the UN Convention. We do so with full conviction, but we do so in areas where we really share the conviction. That's selective. That's true. I'm in favour of that, too. So I advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u98	This brings us to the end of the discussions on the legislative proposal Adoption of the agreement between the Netherlands and Zambia on the avoidance of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in relation to taxes on income.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-3.u99	The vote on the legislative proposal and the motions tabled will take place on Tuesday 24 October. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the House of Representatives. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 p.m. The meeting then continued its work on the subject.
