ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u2	Madam President. Europe is a battlefield, a war zone: after-attack, almost every week now, dead, wounded, innocent people killed, blown up with nail bombs, crashed by trucks, kalashnikovs. You can't make it up that crazy. It's horrible. Except for a single, equally sad, exception, the last thing the victims hear before they are chased to death is the loud screaming of "Allahoe akbar!" And the next of kin are left behind in the grief. My group shares this sadness and mourns with all the victims. But we are also angry, because after every terrorist attack, nothing changes the main cause of all this misery. It is still denied that Islam is the cause of all this misery. It's a vicious, violent ideology that we've imported massively. The people have been systematically told, to this day, that Islam is a peaceful religion and that it is just a few Islamic extremists who are ruining things. Lies, all lies! Now we are all over Europe with the baked pears, with a fifth column replacing us, colonizing us and increasingly terrorizing us. What needs to be done is crystal clear, and my group has been calling it for years: we must stop immigration from Islamic countries. We must close our borders. We need to focus on remigration. We need to denaturalise and deport double-national criminals. We must never let Syrians back into the Netherlands again and arrest and lock up all those who have already returned. But all this is not enough, because because we have not done so, the situation has gotten a hundred times worse. There is a great danger, which the NCTV also pointed out last Friday. I quote from the latest Threat Picture of Terrorism in the Netherlands: "Many of the perpetrators were previously in the sight of the authorities, but were not arrested because there was insufficient evidence against them." Perpetrators! We are talking about perpetrators of acts of terrorism which, I presume, were fortunately known in this case to foreign intelligence agencies but were not arrested, and could simply kill innocent people. How is it possible? Why do we let that happen? We must finally and urgently introduce administrative detention. Mr President, I am proud to be able to present an initiative proposal to you shortly, at the end of my term, on behalf of a few colleagues. This initiative proposal says that people who can be associated with or support terrorism on the basis of their behaviour must be able to be detained in order to protect our national security, even if there is still insufficient criminal evidence to bring them to justice. There is an urgent need to do so, because only criminal law and administrative measures, such as reporting obligations and bans on territory, will make it impossible for us to do so. It is necessary, because the number of jihadists and sympathizers is spreading in Europe. In the United Kingdom there are 23,000 jihadists. It's not much better in the rest of Europe. In our own Netherlands too, the jihadist movement now knows hundreds of jihadists who are willing to use violence. According to the AIVD, there are also several thousand sympathizers who can "become tough fighters" in a short time. Thousands of sympathizers of the jihad in the Netherlands can grow into tough fighters in a short time, says the AIVD! So those are people who can attack any day, any time here in the Netherlands. Why are we letting them walk free? Why do they let them out there in box K? It's dangerous. There is no alternative, namely to follow them, because to follow one person 24/7, 24 hours a day we need 20 employees. Turns out that's not possible. Administrative detention is urgently needed. We should have introduced it a long time ago. Innocent lives can be saved. Do it, I'll tell the three people in box-K. Do it at last! Don't sit with your fingers in your nose. Mr. Chairman. That is why, together with my colleagues De Graaf and Fritsma, I am now submitting to you an initiative legislative proposal with the request that we also ask you in the accompanying letter to send it to the Council of State as a matter of urgency. Perhaps you can distribute it to your colleagues already, so that they can see it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u3	I have a question. Of course, I have not yet read the initiative proposal, but I wonder what kind of behaviour you deserve to be put in detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u4	That's a good question. We put that in the law too, so Mrs Buitenweg can read it like that. In any case, this is not a question of behaviour, it is not a question of thinking, because they are free in this country and they should, above all, continue to be related to potential terrorist activities or their support, and it is in the interests of national security that these people are taken off the streets. That is also the difference with criminal law. These are behaviours that could be linked to or support possible terrorist activities. That would not be enough for criminal law. The point is that it can be linked to that. What kind of people are they? Again, there is no exhaustive list. We deliberately put it in the AIVD to determine when it is. But you could think of someone who makes jihad videos instead of terrorist videos, because they are already criminal in which nothing is criminal, but the service does think: something is going wrong here. You could also think of people who promote and spread movies on the Internet, walk along with demonstrations or wave jihadist flags. They could all be behaviors. Think, for example, of people who are in contact with the wrong people. That doesn't have to be criminal, but the service can see: something is going on here; he demonstrates, has contact with someone we have in our sights or makes a video. Then it is not up to politics, but to the General Intelligence and Security Service, on the basis of these behaviours and if they are thought to be contrary to national security, to propose to the Minister that he should be arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u5	I note that this concerns people who are suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u6	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u7	At least they're suspected of being a danger. On the basis of a number of facts, they are suspected of this. Mr Wilders chooses to put these people in detention instead of having them observed. Can Mr Wilders imagine that this mass detention has the effect that family, friends or others are much less inclined to give tips to the police and that this undermines the safety of the Netherlands? Can he imagine that this will be the reaction of the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u8	No, I cannot even understand Mrs Buitenweg's question in all reasonable terms, let alone that I can imagine it. If the General Intelligence and Security Service were to say about someone "that person has wrong contacts, he makes videos and he walks with certain flags across the street," would it be precisely picking that person up that would be a danger to national security? No, the opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u9	No, what I'm saying... maybe it's useful if I could explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u10	I think I'm talking. The opposite is the case. Just when we pick up people like that and take them off the streets, we protect the Netherlands. That is in the interests of national security. I cannot, as I say to Mr van GroenLinks, say that it does not happen long ago. There are 23,000 jihadists in the United Kingdom. In the Netherlands there are thousands of sympathizers of jihadists. We've seen in the last few months what these people are capable of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr Wilders proposes that about a few thousand people be locked up. For how long will that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u12	No, that's not true either. I'm giving the AIVD the opportunity to do that. I'm not saying they all need to be locked up. I say that the General Intelligence and Security Service should have an instrument in case criminal law is not yet sufficient to justify the principle of administrative detention to the Minister in individual cases to take people off the streets. If only we had done so before throughout the European Union. Mrs Buitenweg can read in the bill for how long. This can be extended for a maximum period of six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mrs. Buitenweg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u14	That means that people are free after that and are still on the streets. Then you will have to keep an eye on them again, and that will indeed cost human strength. I wonder if, as a PVV, you really would like to put them first in detention, have them radicalised there and then release them again, because then you will still have to keep an eye on them. I don't think you've made any progress with it, except that you, at least six months later, make the street considerably more unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u15	The opposite is the case. If we take people off the streets who are linked to terrorist activities, then surely a blind horse can see that you make the Netherlands safer rather than more unsafe? But can I give examples from Europe to the colleague of GroenLinks, which shows what can happen if you do not? 'Cause it's not done. Again, last Friday's NCTV report states that perpetrators in other countries, known to the intelligence services, have been released. Does the colleague of GroenLinks know where this led? I have put together a few examples of what those people, who were familiar, have done. We saw it on June 19 at the Champs-Elysées, where a man with a car full of explosives drove into a police van. That man was on the terror watchlist. We saw it on June 3rd at the London Bridge: seven people dead. There were three unsubs, one of whom was known to the intelligence service but was out in the street. We saw it in Manchester on May 22nd: 23 dead. The French authorities knew the man had been in Syria. It was known, but he was still out there. We saw it in...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u16	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u17	No, Madam President, I would like to finish this list, because that is an answer to the question put by my colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u18	How big is that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u19	... and I would like to mention those examples. In Stockholm on 17 April: five dead. The killer was known. In Westminster on March 22nd, six dead. The killer was known to MI5. The Christmas market in Berlin: 12 dead. The unsub was on a watchlist. I can go on for a while. These are all cases of people who were known to the authorities, to the intelligence services, who could not be caught because of the criminal law that did not yet provide sufficient resources, and who have killed dozens, sometimes hundreds, of innocent civilians. Don't let that happen here. Because then I am on the other side and I ask you: couldn't you have agreed better to this bill, Mrs van GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u20	No, Mrs. Buitenweg. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u21	Does Wilders know when the last terrorist attack was in the Netherlands? And where?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u22	When it comes to an Islamic attack, it has unfortunately been the murder of Theo van Gogh. You will undoubtedly be targeting attacks on mosques. Let me be clear about this: that too would undoubtedly fall within the scope of this legislative proposal. We reject any violence, whether it is directed against innocent civilians in the streets or against people who go to the mosque. You don't touch that, and as far as I'm concerned, you're gonna take the perpetrators as hard as you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u23	How do we prevent people like Breivik................................................................................................................... How do we prevent it in the eyes of Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u24	Do you know what we will have to prevent in the first place? You won't always be able to prevent fools. You can fasten them. I had hoped that Sweden would have had such a law and he would have been targeted. With a law like that, he could have been arrested. The main problem, Mr Azarkan, is, of course, Islam in the Netherlands. That is the major problem across Europe. The problem is that 99 of the 100 attacks take place on behalf of Allahoe akbar, that the Qur'an, the suras from it, literally call on Muslims to, as in 47:4............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Let's translate into my words freely. I could mention 50 more. That's the problem. We've imported massive Islamization into this country. We've made zero demands on assimilation, and now we're dealing with the fried pears. The most important solution is as follows, and no one can justify using this violence. Once again, anyone who manages to use violence, including against the Muslims in this country, must be severely punished. The most important thing we have to do is de-Islamicize our country, make sure we have less Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u25	I think we should make our country safer. That means without regard for the person. I note that the PVV always makes the distinction and always lays all blame on people with an Islamic background. It disgusts me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u26	You have listened badly, because I have said that people who attack Muslims must also be treated hard. Look, my party wants to get rid of mosques. We want to get rid of all mosques in the Netherlands, but only in a democratic way. That means we're gonna have to make that decision here someday. If you get it in your weird head to do that by force, I'll let you go to jail for ten years. So you didn't listen to what I said. That's too bad, but apparently you already had your answer ready. And yet about the Muslims in the Netherlands. They're not a few. We've brought in the trouble. We see it all in all university research. 73% of the Dutch Muslims think the Syrians are heroes. 70% of Muslims consider religious rules, such as those in the Qur'an, more important than our secular laws. 11% of the Dutch Muslims are willing to use violence from the faith here in the Netherlands. That's over 100,000 people! More than 100,000 people in our country say: I am willing to use violence. That's a giga problem. That's what we imported. We need to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u27	It is fine that a group from the Lower House should come forward with an initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u29	You're welcome. If a political group identifies a problem and feels that the cabinet is doing too little, any parliamentary group can table an initiative legislative proposal. I think that Mrs Buitenweg's questions show that the initiative proposal is still raging on all sides, but at least a proposal has been tabled. But then I took a look at the PVV's own-initiative proposals over the last ten years. I'm gonna make a list, too. Repeal of Ukraine Convention, in 2016. Criminal Dutch from Aruba return faster, in 2014. Widening freedom of expression, in 2012. Group liability in the event of crime, in 2012. Trying to arrange the King's modern role, in 2011. Minimum age for prostitutes in 2009.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u30	How big is that list, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u31	I would like to share this with the Chamber, Mr President. Age limits and minimum penalties, in 2009 and in 2006. A burqa ban, in 2007. Turkey's accession in 2005. Of all the PVV's own-initiative proposals, which have been announced with just as much bombarity and tamtam as Mr Wilders' proposal today, the Chamber has never heard again. Is this, announcing an initiative bill that we probably never hear from again, now serious action to combat terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u32	No. Some of the legislative proposals mentioned by Mr van D66 have been accepted in whole or in part by the cabinet. Others are still in treatment. Some could indeed have been taken forward more vigorously; the honourable Member is right to do so. I asked the President to pass the proposal on to the Council of State as a matter of urgency. As far as I'm concerned, we're still dealing with it. I'm sitting there in box K defending it with my colleagues before the summer recess. That's not gonna work, because it's gonna go to the Council of State. But we want to deal with it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u33	So Mr Wilders is now saying that he is really going to work on an initiative bill, that he is really going to make sure that the questions of the Chamber are answered, that there is not some kind of silence period after the Chamber comes up with criticism, but that he is not just going to be calling out today what needs to be changed, and that he is really going to take this initiative bill seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u34	The sooner, the better. If the D66 colleague promises me that he will take a serious look at the bill and that he will seriously consider supporting it if he thinks it is a good proposal, then we are a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u35	If it is correct, the proposal for an initiative will now be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u36	I'll certainly do that. From about 100 metres you can see that it is raging on all sides, that it undermines the rule of law and that it is totally unsustainable on all fronts in view of international treaties. But I will deal with Mr Wilders. Of course, we are looking seriously at this bill, but Mr Wilders will also have to come to terms with it. The PVV has announced far too often with a lot of bombabre legislative proposals that no one has ever heard of. That's fake democracy from a fake party, the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u37	It is really hard to believe that Mr D66 is asking me to take the bill seriously when he himself says that the proposal is raving before he has even read one letter of it. He hasn't read a letter of it yet! Yes, I am sorry to say this to you now, Mr Verhoeven, but just listen. You say to me: take it seriously. But without you reading a letter of it, you say it's raging from all sides. If there is one bill that has been tabled here for the last ten years to protect the rule of law, then it is this bill. Do you know what it's like to protect the rule of law? The government has a duty to ensure the safety of its citizens. That duty is now being completely renounced, because thousands of people are free to roam the streets who will be able to commit an attack tomorrow and who are known to the services. We don't do anything with that. That, Mr Verhoeven, is a flagrant violation of the rule of law. If you want to take the rule of law seriously, you support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u38	That's up to D66 himself. We will certainly look at the bill, but there was a whole piece in De Telegraaf this morning. The PVV always does that: first communicate through the media and then outside. On the basis of that proposal, people can be detained for six months without a clear criminal offence. You don't have to get a lot of legal advice to know that's not feasible. Mr Wilders himself knows that very well, but he always comes up with proposals that cannot work in practice, because that is the way of the PVV's political business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u39	The bill is very feasible. In fact, there are other countries that carry out administrative detention. It already exists in a number of countries, including legal states. That's where this already exists! Then how come you can't do this? Administrative measures are also taken by the Cabinet. A law on bans and reporting obligations came into force on 1 March. Terrorists will not care. It's incredibly ineffective. This is an effective proposal. It is applied in other countries, and it will ensure that thousands of people who are now free and who we have seen in other European countries kill innocent people in bushes are arrested and taken off the streets. My group does not want the Prime Minister, who is now talking to his neighbour as if this is about nothing, to come to Amsterdam or Rotterdam and say: yes, he was known to us, but we could not do anything, because it was not yet in the reach of criminal law. With us, those lives were spared and that person was taken off the street. That's the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet, because today we have, let me say, finally get the draft law which, in the eyes of the CDA, improves the pre-trial detention. As a result, remand may take longer, with a less heavy burden of proof. Let me also immediately thank the PVV for the proposal we are getting today. My group will take a serious look at that. We are still waiting for the cabinet's proposal on residence on terrorist territory, because that proposal too is something we desperately need. So let us try to take steps and at least ensure that the laws we have received today are dealt with as quickly as possible. The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator shows in his threat picture that in 2017 in the West at least ten terrorist attacks with a jihadist motive were committed, brutal attacks. We know them all; Mr Wilders has called them out and too na and they leave nothing to the imagination. We still have some concerns about specific target groups. I would like to zoom in on that to see if we can take another step on that. A number of warriors eventually return to the Netherlands. We hear a lot about women and about youth, but we actually see few specific points to address these target groups. For teachers and aid workers, I have nothing but praise. What happens in security houses is sublime, but I hear very little about a specific approach. Teachers know when to report something, but what actually happens is too light. I want to hear from this cabinet today what these deradicalisation programmes really are worth. What are we gonna do with that? I can't get a tangible answer to that. I'd like to hear that answer today. I am glad that the Prime Minister is here today, because I remember very well what the Prime Minister of England said. She said that sometimes there are situations in which our rule of law seems to abdicate when we want to take additional measures. In particular, she referred to the English problem: the English have even more difficulty in securing people who are in the picture with the security services and who they would like to pick up. She says: perhaps we should occasionally look at which international conventions hinder our own rules. I thought that was a very intelligent remark. When I asked the Minister to put this on the agenda, I caught bone. He said that's not on the agenda, so I'm not gonna discuss it. As far as I'm concerned, terror is always on the agenda. Can the Prime Minister indicate how he intends to respond to the call from England? 'Cause what's being rubbed against? What should we do? Then where are the obstacles? Are there any possible obstacles that the Chamber would also like to put an end to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u41	In the end, of course, we are in the Netherlands and it is difficult to philosophize about the British situation. Mrs Van Toorenburg, perhaps you can say whether you have the idea that certain treaties are a major problem here and which articles of those treaties you really wanted to hang on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u42	I'm tasting something in the question, but it's probably just me. Mrs Buitenweg says that she wants to hang on to the willows. That's not what I said. I have said that the Prime Minister of no banana republic in Europe has indicated that we should seriously consider whether there are any obstacles in our treaties. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that sometimes we can only take measures if someone still has a nationality. If people decide to leave for Syria to attack our boys and girls there and sow death and destruction in a horrible way and if they no longer have anything with the Netherlands, I honestly wonder whether it should indeed be so that you can only denaturalise those people if they still have a nationality. I wonder if these are really things that we were thinking about when we made this legislation and these treaties. I think that that sort of thing should be kept under review. That's probably one and maybe there's more. If a Prime Minister of a European country indicates that we need to talk about this, I would first of all ask the Minister for Security and Justice to put it on the agenda of the JHA Council. But he didn't feel like it. He said that's not on the agenda and I won't. Today, the Prime Minister is lucky to be in trade-K. He also speaks to many Heads of Government. Maybe he'll see opportunities for that. I have indicated that I am pleased with the proposals and that I am concerned about what we are actually doing. That's where I left off. In the Chamber we have talked very often about salafism. I see we're still fighting that. I believe that this cabinet, in particular, has done too little to get a look at this, including the financial flows. Because we still don't know how to contain it properly. That's a source of evil. What does the Cabinet do about this? Finally, I come to a completely different point that has not yet been raised in this debate. Those are the Turkish fight crews. It scared me when I read that, too. I remember that we have a city council member in Rotterdam who is not sure of his own life, because this city council member is threatened from all sides. If I have to read that Ankara's extended arm is so rich that we may have fight teams in Rotterdam who want to go to work with violence and corruption, I want this cabinet to do everything in its power to ensure that it is stopped. If that meant that we would have to use legislation, think of the 'going into foreign military service' with which you can denaturalise, I could imagine a great deal of it. I would therefore like to know today from the Cabinet what far-reaching measures it intends to take or to submit to judges to deal with this sick manner of undermining our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u43	Madam President. Once again, Europe has been alarmed by attacks and once again civilians have been wounded and murdered. Our thoughts go out to everyone affected by this barbarity. Let me begin with compliments for our security services, for the police and for vigilant citizens. Everyone should be aware that the Netherlands, as far as terrorism is concerned, has so far remained virtually out of hand, unlike almost all of our neighbouring countries. I want to be very clear here. The fanaticism that has been sowing death and destruction for years must be stopped. These are not only perpetrators who come here with ideas from elsewhere, but also people who were born here. The bloodshed must stop. No new attacks. No new victims. Of course, 100% security is impossible, but it is our job to do everything we can to stop terrorism. That is why we must continue to ask ourselves whether we cannot and should not take more measures to deal adequately with this madness. Often that starts with more eyes and ears in the neighborhood. For example, we saw in the Belgian Molenbeek that reinforcement with district agents immediately paid off. How does the Minister feel about using more district agents in this area too? Looking at the Minister's letter, 50PLUS had hoped that he had given more detailed consideration to the statements made by British Prime Minister May shortly after the attacks that struck her country. May states, among other things, that human rights are less priority when it comes to combating terrorism. What's that like in the Netherlands? What are the Ministers' views on the May proposals? Do the Ministers share the view that human rights in the fight against terrorism should be a second plan? The Minister further wrote in his letter that the promotion and defence of our democratic rule of law is an important weapon against the extremist sound. In this context, the Minister points to increasing the resilience of communities. But how resilient is our western democratic rule of law really if anti-democratic propaganda remains barely contradicted? The Minister also writes that extremist propaganda and content is addressed and counter-sound facilitated. But how can it be that recently a Hague council member was allowed to stir up entire tribes with anti-Semitic texts and what kind of rebuttal can we expect at demonstrations such as last Friday on the Square, here in front of the House of Representatives, whose aim is to destroy the State of Israel? I'll come to a conclusion. Let us be aware that terrorist attacks are directed at all of us. Over the past few weeks, we have had to commemorate the victims who have been affected. I don't want to see the moment when we get used to it. After all, they are attacks against our way of life, against our constitutional system, against the ideal of the democratic rule of law, against you and me, against us. Terrorism aims to overthrow our society and wage an extermination war against people and ideals. It is essential to ask ourselves whether we should continue to grant democratic and state-of-the-art means to those who attack our democratic rule of law with which the world-wide jihad is actually being waged against us. Do we not support a war against ourselves in this way? 50PLUS is for a critical reflection on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u44	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u45	Mr. Chairman. Islamic State blew up the great mosque Al Nuri in Mosul, the place where the IS Caliphate was declared three years ago. Hopefully this will bring the end of this terrorism state. This shows in any case the impossible of IS ideology, an unfulfilled desire for an imaginary past that never existed and never will exist, but with a godless violence that also shows how evil and barbaric people can be. With the fall of IS, the attacks seem to increase in Europe. In January Istanbul, in February Paris, in March London, in April Stockholm, in May Manchester, in June again London and so much more. In our own country too, reports of suspects being arrested appear in the media. In any case, I would like to thank all the people of the AIVD, the police and the judiciary, and also everyone who is working day and night to prevent attacks, very much for their courageous work. People who want to attack, we have to stop. Young people who are now radicalising, we need to be smart about it. The breeding ground for jihadism must be wiped out. The only way to do that is to fight Salafism. It was these extremists who were able to go on in our country for years. I am pleased that the government has finally implemented the Roemer/Zijlstra motion (29754, No. 337) from 2015 to make a list of such organisations public. Anyone who returns from IS area now is a potential terrorist. Stories of regrets are no longer credible. But what exactly happens to these people? We have put forward a proposal for preventive deradicalisation. By obliging people to take a judicial test, we prevent them from wandering freely. All terrorists are different, but young people who radicalize often have the same characteristics. They get out of the sight of parents, teachers and district agents; they often end up in criminal organizations; they often have psychological problems and then form a far too easy prey for international networks of recruiters and preachers, who promise their heroism and brotherhood, as well as a rapid redemption from their failed lives. Recent research has shown that youth care and ggz do not always share enough with the police. I also notice that perpetrators of attacks are often known to secret services. I know that the AIVD has invested a lot in exchanging data, but I do notice that attackers are known and can still walk freely. Salafist organisations have sat at the table of municipalities for years, received subsidies or collaborated with schools. Again, I am extremely pleased that we finally have a list of Salafist organisations, but I must say that the list I have made, along with a number of people who have ever been part of Salafist organisations, is much longer. I know that the research of the WODC will appear soon; if it is right, it will appear this month or next month. Then we will have to continue the debate, but I would like to know what action will be taken. The Internet is a source of propaganda. When you are a youngster looking for information about Islam, you often come to Salafist, extremist, jihadist propaganda. I know attempts at counter-propaganda are being made, but are they successful? Today it became known that there has been another major global hack attack, in which, for example, the port of Rotterdam has been hit. Can it be guaranteed - I ask the Prime Minister that all our quays, nuclear power stations and other essential facilities are well protected and protected? Do we have enough neighborhood agents to track down radicalization? Is sufficient information exchanged? Do we have enough expertise to prevent cyberattacks? And above all: if we map out what salafistic organizations we have in our country, how are we going to ensure that they can no longer do their destructive work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u46	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the number of attacks since Brussels last year is no longer on both hands. At least in the last few weeks, terror threats have kept us in their grip. Subconsciously, that affects your sense of security. With admiration I saw how last week, after a failed attack, our southern neighbors caught up with Brussels again quickly. Burns were painted white the next morning and the Belgians passed Brussels Central Station for their daily journey to work. That's the kind of reaction we need. In this debate, we are keeping the terrorist measures under review. For D66 this approach includes both repressive and preventive measures. Countries around us are rightly jealous of our focus on the local approach and cooperation between local organisations. It is essential that our services are sufficiently equipped to carry out their work for the safety of the Netherlands. That is what the government has done, albeit after lengthy, frequent and repeated pressure from the Chamber, but does it now look forward? The Court of Auditors has recently written that it is concerned about the AIDV. In recent years, many anti-terrorist measures have passed through this Chamber. All these measures have looked at D66 with a critical eye, e.g. the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme, which will end this summer. This includes 38 measures to prevent terrorist attacks, radicalisation and extremism, sometimes far-reaching measures with effects on privacy, freedoms and fundamental rights of all of us. It is not uncommon for measures to be effective and unproven. For example, see also the proposal submitted by the PVV today: it sounds firm and we will start reading it, but in practice it just doesn't seem to work. We need measures that work in practice. Today, the Minister for Security and Justice presented a proposal for new measures, such as a declaration obligation, withdrawal of the right to vote and DNA loss in the event of suspicion of a terrorist offence, while the previous measures have barely been implemented. We have said many times: do not always come up with something new if the existing one is not even implemented or fully used! That is why D66 would like an evaluation of the action programme and an examination of the usefulness, legal sustainability and application of all these measures. Does the Minister intend to carry out such an evaluation? Can the Minister also explain what else he has in his case? For example, is the criminalisation of residence in the area of terrorism now permanently out of hand? In the letter, the Minister further states that he fully shares the view of British Prime Minister May, namely that human rights should be allowed to depart if they are an obstacle to severe terrorist measures. How am I supposed to understand those words? I'd like a response. Another new measure: The Netherlands and surrounding countries are still planning to carry out identity checks on international trains and buses. Can the Minister explain at what stage this is at? How do we prevent the emergence of long queues of passengers, with all the associated risks, or that terrorists simply take the car? Finally, I go into the so-called World-Check database. My group has asked questions about this before. It is a private list, compiled in a very unclear manner, but used by banks and governments. That list includes people who would be involved in terror. There are thousands of Dutch people on this list, including maybe you and I. Who supervises the existence and operation of this list? How do people get on this list? And, also very important, Mr Krol already indicates to me that he is also on that list. How do people get off? I would like to get a response, because intransparent, outdated and sometimes incorrect information should not be used by banks and governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u47	Mr. Chairman. Every time there's a terrorist attack, it's frightening, and every time we hold our hearts. Whether it happens in Melbourne, Stockholm, Manchester, London, Kabul or Tehran, we do not care, because terrorists make no distinction between victims and we make no distinction in terrorist attacks. We do not engage in selective indignation, we do not have a selective conscience and we do not show selective solidarity. But the letter from the government is indeed that. How is it that this letter almost exclusively refers to extremism, jihadism, radicalisation and terrorism with an Islamic signature? It often seems that only so-called Muslims are perpetrators of terrorism, while the perpetrators of 70% of the terrorist attacks are others and 70% of the victims are Muslims. Take the last terrorist attack in our country to which I referred. Five men throw incendiary bombs in broad daylight at an Islamic prayer house in Enschede. 60 people in the mosque are praying peacefully, including children and women. That's extremely sad. I myself learned that 10% is what happens and 90% is how we deal with it as a society. Let's not get crazy. Let's not push Muslims away. Let's hold each other. If terrorists want to divide us, we must do twice as much to prevent this. We must form a fist against people who cannot wait for an attack and who use force terms for political gain. Then I look at Geert Wilders and his lucrative trade in fear and contrasting types of Dutch people. Further study over the past ten years of the PVV's business model shows that there are five columns. It begins with the vision: Muslims are a threat. The goal: to set up citizens without a migrant background against Muslims. The strategy: request debates at every incident and turn everything into the world via Twitter. Then there are three more tactics: dehumanizing by means of terms such as head-vodden tax, banning Quran and closing mosques and letting up test balloons with legislation, specifically for Muslims. Last week I was shocked by an event in Amsterdam. A diabetic went unwell there and lost control of his car. According to many, there was no need for research. It was already clear: this was a terrorist attack. While the Amsterdam police strongly stated that it was an incident, bloggers, journalists and mostly social media users would not believe it. It seemed as if people were disappointed that it was not an attack; I found that shocking, according to a police spokesperson in Amsterdam. But the moment a van hits mosque visitors in London, terrorism suddenly seems like a word we can't find to stick it to that event. Even worse are the reactions to social media. More, more, more! Only one dead, unfortunately! Better luck next time! It's so sad. I'm rounding up. I am very concerned about the security of our society and also about the Islamic communities. In recent years, 300 mosques in our country have faced incidents of violence and threats. I have had several discussions on this with the Minister, among others. Dozens of times mosque drivers have called the bell and asked for help. Unfortunately, they were told no; it remained at a hand-off. In the last session 23 mosques were also cancelled here in the west. They didn't want anything to do with it anymore. Mosques use volunteers themselves to pray peacefully. We believe that it is the responsibility of the government to provide protection. I sincerely wonder how we would react if three quarters of the synagogues in the Netherlands were threatened. Wouldn't we have an urgent debate here long ago and have freed up some money? Must there be a deadly victim before we do anything for those mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u48	Mr. Chairman. Last December I was in Paris with my family. When we were on top of the Eiffel Tower on Christmas Day, I suddenly felt fear of what could happen. I notice that more and more people are worried about their safety when they go to a big concert or to another place with a lot of people. That's bad. It is the primary task of the government to guarantee people's freedom, so that they can go wherever they want, do what they think is important and can say and write what they want. That freedom to live your life as you wish is at stake by the threat of terrorism. Moreover, this freedom may also come under pressure from the public authorities, if in response it limits fundamental rights out of proportion. I'll get back to you on that. Our job is to find the right balance. Over the past year, we've been facing attacks. Sometimes close by, Paris, Brussels, Manchester, London, and sometimes far away, Kabul, Istanbul and last week a holiday park near Bamako in Mali. Since the murder of Theo van Gogh, there has been no fatal attack in the Netherlands, and that is a happiness, but also a great achievement. In his letter, the Minister describes the Dutch approach. That is a pragmatic mix of harsh repression and soft prevention. My group supports this broad approach. The Threat Image Terrorism Netherlands shows that the Dutch jihadist movement consists of several hundred people. We have to keep an eye on them, but the question is how. I understand some people's emotional response to put these people in a mass lockdown, but that's not wise. The promotion and defence of our rule of law is an important weapon against extremism. At least that was the Minister's statement in his letter, and I believe in it. Mass detention only increases the risk of violence. After all, you have to let people out sometime. Moreover, I have just indicated that in response to Mr Wilders, friends, family and entire communities will lose confidence in the government, which dries up the flow of information to the police and, precisely because of this, avoids much misery at the moment. The Netherlands has done a lot more work on prevention than many countries around us, and that pays off. Let's not throw that away, let's intensify it. The fact that perpetrators of attacks were usually in the picture, as Mr Wilders rightly points out, means that targeted detection and surveillance must be in order. There must be sufficient expertise at the AIVD, such as enough people who speak Arabic. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is the case. Today, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights criticized British Prime Minister May and US President Trump for not paying enough attention to both the importance and nature of human rights. When I read the plans of the Dutch Government, I fear that we will be added to this list. Human rights are not absolute, except, for example, the prohibition of torture. Many human rights, such as the right to privacy or the right to freedom, can be infringed, provided that it is demonstrably necessary, proportionate and effective. Yes, in times of great terror threat, weighing or anything proportionate will work out differently than in times of rest. However, you have to make that weighting, and that is not enough. The Council of State, in response to the proposals of the cabinet, also said that they did not pass the test of criticism. I would ask the cabinet if it is prepared to take that weighting a little more seriously. Tackling terrorism also involves drawing up lists of people who are classified as suspects. Financial service providers, car dealers, brokers and so on should consult those lists. Whose responsibility is making these lists? Currently, one of the most consulted lists is a list drawn up by a commercial party in its own right, partly on the basis of newspaper clippings: World-Check. People often do not get it corrected if they are wrongly on the list. This shows the case of Dutch environmental activist Sunny Ofehe. The bank account of our colleague Bram van Ojik is also closed on the basis of this list. Wouldn't it be much better if these commercial collages were countered and the government itself provided a list and could appeal if they were based on false information? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Wilders from here on his own-initiative proposal. We'll read that with interest. The United Kingdom has been hit several times in a short time by terrorist attacks. These were different types of terrorists who used multiple methods of attack and chose a different target each time. Partly the attacks were professionally prepared and partly amateurish in nature. It shows how complex the terrorist threat is and how unpredictable it is. An attack seems to come from any place at any time. Although our country has so far been protected from it, the threat level remains at 4, substantial. The cabinet sits when it comes to anti-terrorism policy. Our neighbouring countries are now stepping up their efforts to catch up. However, the Netherlands has already taken measures in many areas to minimise the risk of an attack. Is the work done with that? No, never. The continuing terrorist threat requires us to be alert and remain alert and to keep the whole package of measures under constant review. Is there a need for adjustments and tightening up? One of the questions that concerns many people is what exactly is meant when the media reports that the attackers were "in the eyes of the security services." That's something people don't understand very much about. They were "in the picture" and yet they were able to make an attack. I understand that the government cannot prevent a loner who radicalizes in an attic without ever getting in touch with detectives or security services from driving a bus into a crowd. But what's going on if someone was "in the picture"? What exactly does that mean? Did he have a record? Does it mean that he sympathized with the radical views of an imam from the neighborhood? Or does it mean that he was followed by the services because he posed a concrete threat to national security? Can the Minister elaborate on the phenomenon of being "in the picture"? Another issue that people are asking for is the situation that a convicted terrorist whose case is still on appeal can operate on a military basis. We talked about it during the debate on Volkel. What about this screening at vital locations such as Schiphol, the port of Rotterdam, large NS stations, Petten or the House of Representatives? Does such a figure always pop into the systems if necessary? And if such a figure wants to work at such a location, is there always a request for a vog? The Minister is prepared to examine vog legislation in relation to terrorism-related crimes. That's good news. I would also like to see a review of how we are dealing at all with the requirement of a vog in institutions that are part of our vital infrastructure. Can institutions decide for themselves whether a dog is required, or would it be better to make this mandatory in certain cases? I'd like to hear a response. I would also like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs a number of questions on prevention. Salafists are increasingly and in a compelling way trying to impose an intolerable, isolationist and anti-democratic message on other Muslims. They also try, sometimes by intimidation, to get a foothold in temperate mosques and mosque authorities. That's literally what it says in the threat picture. The Minister implemented the Roemer/Zijlstra motion and provided a list of Salafist organizations. But the key question is, of course, how to proceed? What to do with this list? The WODC analysis that will be published is interesting, but what will the cabinet itself do against these organizations? I would also like to know what the latest state of affairs is with regard to the dubious foreign financing of mosques here in the Netherlands. Is the Segers/Tellegen motion implemented by the cabinet? The plan to tackle jihadism includes a whole range of measures aimed at early detection and countering radicalisation. How are these measures implemented in the 11 municipalities at risk, also known as the jihad municipalities? We're spending about $11 million on those programs. I ask the Minister if he can indicate the impact of the measures at local level. And is the money well spent? Do the municipalities also report back to the minister on the concrete progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u50	Mr. Chairman. Violence of radical terrorism touches us all deeply. It would be almost funny if it were not so in and in sad that we had to meet the United Kingdom ambassador here so often in the Chamber. The remembrance of a terrorist attack now seems to be near sharp and sharp. But it can never get used to. I'd like to have noticed that here. That is why it is good that we regularly discuss terrorism with each other here in the Chamber and what we should do about it. The emotions we all feel, from left to right here in this house, I feel too. In every attempt there are again the grief, the emotions, the powerlessness and the anger. Combating extremist interpretations of Islam not only plays in the United Kingdom, but also plays here acutely and every day. The latest threat picture in April also shows that there is a growing influence among others of Salafists who are undermining society and politically. I have a number of questions to ask the cabinet. First of all, the question raised by Mrs Van Tellegen: what about the disclosure of foreign funding of Salafist organisations in the Netherlands? Can we expect that? A motion has been tabled by colleagues from among others the SP. Is there currently active criminal prosecution of Salafist organisations that are undermining and crossing the borders of our rule of law? I also have a question about online threats, when it comes to extremism, and in particular the role of global hosting. We see that many organisations are doing their best to make a joint fight against terrorism, but then many web hostings don't give at home when it comes to removing criminal content. This is the case with child pornography, which we are talking about tomorrow, but also with extreme violence and extremism. What steps can the cabinet take here in the Netherlands and European, internationally, to address hosting parties on their responsibility? Just before the debate, the cabinet sent a bill to the Chamber. I scanned that bill fast. It concerns the extension of pre-trial detention, broadening the possibilities for DNA testing, and a declaration obligation. Of course, we have to assess the entire bill on its merits, but it is good that the cabinet is doing everything it can to take seriously everything we can to tackle extremism and terror. I have a question in that light right away. Mr Wilders has tabled an own-initiative proposal. I got a quick scan of the bill. The need of the PVV Group, as well as our group, is to know: how can you get to it as soon as possible, especially if perpetrators, or what turned out to be perpetrators, are in the picture? What if you do have suspicions, but not concrete evidence yet? Does the government's bill provide for the need also expressed by the PVV in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u51	I'd like you to finish your input. Then Mr. Azarkan can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u52	We're all looking for those offenders, or people we know were responsible afterwards. We have seen in several attacks that potential offenders were actually in the picture, but nothing has been done about it. We cannot always judge why that is, but there is, of course, a hole that we like to see closed. What does the cabinet bill do about that? What other possibilities do we have to close that gap between knowing, being able and acting?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u53	In the beginning of her contribution, Mr.Kuiks spoke about salafistic organizations. Is she, like her predecessor, Mr Marcouch, in favour of banning salafism in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u54	I am in favour of a ban on Salafist organisations advocating undermining the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u55	How should this be established?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u56	We have tabled a motion to that effect. The cabinet has looked carefully at this. It does turn out to be difficult. I have to accept that. However, the threat of Salafist organisations is still increasing, that they are undermining and that funding plays a role in this. So I haven't figured it out yet, because I think it's important that we deal with these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u58	Mr. Chairman. I do not think it is appropriate and necessary to display my personal involvement when it comes to the seriousness and consequences of attacks. What I would like to think about is the endless mantras of authorities that we will hear more often: our thoughts are with the next of kin. With that thought in mind, I have begun to study the underlying documents of this reflection. Then I find the Minister's letters, starting on 27 June 2017. That is the inventory of all categories of attackers, the methods of approach and findings. The first finding, which stands out most, is: the isolated terrorist is an exception. Well, is that a benefit offer? Do we have to worry less about that? Is that a comforting thought? I didn't think so, because that's the gentleman you have the least grip on, but I'll get to that. Then there is a task for the district agents, care institutions and the municipalities. And then comes the letter of 19 June: the young people must be accompanied by professionals, by imams, there must be facilitating counter-sounds and there must be alert response from professionals. If I were next of kin, I'd think, "Heremy time, what the hell do you want to do with this? What an official jargon! They stick patches on deadly wounds. What good is this gonna do you?" What you want to read is what the minister does with the power he has, the police? Has the Minister ever thought that the only way to eradicate these salafistic breines is by infiltration? This is what you do with infiltrators, with policemen disguised as spiritually reliable brothers or sisters; it will please me. That's the Minister's job. Have the services ever taken note of the book of Maarten Zeegers? I will ask the Minister to give that 2016 book to them for a year on the market. Mr Zeegers is an arabist who has dressed and cut himself correctly, who speaks Arabic and who has dodged all the salafistic hotbeds. He sketches a terrifying picture of total legal resurrection, of total alienation from the Dutch rule of law and of a danger from the thunderbolt that is taking place around the corner. It's a terrifying book. Nowhere do I read the name of Maarten Zeegers in all the comments, letters and reports of the Minister. My question is: will he make that book available to the services he has something to say about and recommend it wholeheartedly? So I read that the loner is an exception. Is the Minister aware that this type of crime is particularly receptive to the loner? This loner can sit quietly, quietly, calmly on his chair and only has to take one book: the Qur'an. If he gets a little nervous or jumpy or doesn't understand it properly and watch some videos, then things are going to go wrong. It doesn't take group dynamics at all. A neighborhood cop can't see a thing. The neighborhood barely knows him. He sits and reads the book. That's it. That book is the decisive factor for every "Allahoe akbar" suicide bomber. From a state point of view, we are always very much prepared to pursue action against consumers. They're being made aware. Is the Minister prepared to give the book the sticker with the text "Can the brain cause serious harm"? Yeah, we live in tough times; you gotta pay for it. Has the Minister reached a progressive point of view? We are now dealing with the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism, which was adopted on 1 March 2017. I'm glad I didn't have anything to do with that. Nowhere in the consideration underlying it can you see the circumstance, which everyone knows, that a suicider who goes to heaven with as many unbelievers as possible in his wake, does not want to care about an anklet or an area ban. It's suicide bombings that we need to talk about right now. What would someone like that want with the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism? Has the Minister become increasingly aware that this cannot provide any relief for the category of murderers we should be talking about here? I saw Mr Wilders' letter. Already all praise for that, because it is a jewel of simplicity. I haven't quite figured it out yet. It will have legal consequences, but it is really worth it, because that is where we have to go. What we're going to talk about right now are state-of-the-art navel-stores that you can run in luxurious circumstances as long as the bomb doesn't fall. If the bomb falls, the Wilders Act will come anyway. He'll get his way anyway. Will the Minister include this circumstance in his judgement and considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u59	Mr. Chairman. Terrorism has only one purpose: to sow fear and confusion through the use of arbitrary and unfocused violence. Once again, we are talking about the attacks that spook the world and its consequences for our country. One of the main threats posed by terrorism is its misuse to legitimise far-reaching, undemocratic measures. The UN Commissioner for Human Rights has intimately capitalized British Prime Minister Theresa May and US President Donald Trump on the fact that they do not seem to respect international human rights and use terrorism as a reason to restrict the protection of civil liberties and the privacy of citizens. Theresa May stated that international human rights rules would be subordinate to the fight against terrorism. I quote the UN Commissioner for Human Rights: 'These kinds of statements are a gift from a respected Western leader to every authoritarian regime on earth that is allowed to violate human rights under the guise of combating terrorism'. He had similar criticism of President Trump and the Filipino president. In all cases, it can be said that they undress democratic rights and civil protection with the fight against terrorism as an alibi. We cannot protect the security and rights of citizens by breaking them down or restricting them. A government that thinks it can claim access to virtually all of its citizens' data traffic under the pretext that it likes to listen to its citizens exploits the sense of insecurity that is causing terrorism in order to implement another agenda. In this House, a proposal has just been made to secure six months without any trial in the slightest suspicion of malicious intentions. The Netherlands needs more police on the street, not a so-called "police state." Citizens who feel unsafe should be able to turn directly to their local police station or district agent. Now that police stations are on the market and neighborhood agents are being cut off, we can't compensate for that with massive wiretap programs. We don't have to let terrorists scare us. This would only meet their very evil intentions. Fear is a bad counselor. The Animal Party is in favour of removing the breeding ground for hunger, terrorism, poverty and insecurity. We need to keep our heads cool when radicalized groups fall into rage. The intended domino effect that these terrorists advocate, we can only put a stop to it by not going along with losing our calm. Instead, we must defend and protect the rule of law and human rights against this terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u60	Thank you. This was the first term of the Chamber. There is a need for a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u61	We will continue with the debate on combating terrorism. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u62	Mr. Chairman. For my part, first a few introductory remarks; then I will answer a few questions. Most of the questions are directly addressed by both ministers, so they will take care of those questions. I agree with all those who have outlined the situation and have argued that this is an absolute top priority. I agree with all those speeches. Perhaps, for the sake of shortness, I can join those speeches in a general sense. I would like to illustrate this by explaining how my job, as well as that of Louis Asscher as Deputy Prime Minister, has changed over the years. Of course, since my arrival in 2010 and Asscher's arrival in 2012 as Deputy Prime Minister, terrorism has been a very big topic. We are working on it on a daily basis and every week we have our meeting on the ministerial security committee, the meeting with all the bosses, heads of the AIVD, the STPD, the police, the armed forces and the Foreign Affairs. This whole control shows the intensity and importance of what is being discussed there. My second introductory remark concerns the ability to reflect at that level and therefore at other levels, and to ask ourselves whether we are on the right track, whether we need additional legislation, whether we need another application of existing legislation and whether we need to do things differently. For example, what do we learn from Theresa May, the British Prime Minister, when she gives a speech after the attacks in Manchester, among others, with her four reflections on how to combat terrorism? It's about that combination, where we run daily from the top and sit at the table weekly with everyone involved. Everyone here today has talked about the insanely high quality of the people in the police, at the AIVD, at the STUDY, at the armed forces, and of our diplomats. May I mention that last group, too? They are often well housed abroad, but we have incredibly good people sitting there and what do they do their job well. The combination of all these services, of all this commitment, means that we can be effective. At the same time, we must continue to reflect. Let me add a final introductory remark: the importance of the resilience and resilience of our society. I found it interesting as a social given but also poignant to see how after last week's attack on a mosque in England, the community also reacted to the attack, and how the imam who had committed that attack finally defended the angry people who wanted to deal with it. Whether terrorism is directed against Muslims or, in many cases, against our Western way of life does not matter at all. It's terrorism and it's all equally bad. But what these terrorists ultimately want is to divide our society, to scare us, to change our normal way of life, to stop sitting on the terrace and to stop going out. Mrs Buitenweg spoke of the feeling that you are standing on the Eiffel Tower with your children and realizes that terrible things have happened in that city and that you are wondering if you are safe there. And yet you stand there; yet we continue to do what we do. Theresa May said this very nicely in one of her speeches: even today, after such an attack, people go back to the streets, people go back to work, the whole world is present in England, in all kinds of ways, from expats to people from Eastern Europe doing their jobs in the less well-paid professions; it is a richly diverse society. Those terrorists ultimately want to break that way of life, our way of life. We must be very aware of this. Let us not forget one thing, namely that Muslims are being hit twice. They are also the target of all these attacks, because it affects them as much as anyone else in this country. At the same time, because most attacks are committed by extremists who use that belief to justify those attacks, some people almost look at them personally. Then you're even double victim; can I say that again? Against that background, I am answering questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u63	It is to be despondent to hear the Prime Minister pronounce these plagiarisms every time: Muslims are double victims. What would you think, Prime Minister, if you were to stand up for the victims here in Europe, the people who, by administrators like you, but not only you, over the last few decades, have caused us to get masses of Muslims this way? Our free West is Islamized. We've made zero demands on assimilation. We've got the fried pears now. People don't care about our Western values and standards. They're making attacks. Women, gays become... that's not a few exceptions. I mentioned the figures. 70%, 80% of Muslims think their rules are more important today, in 2017, than the rules we lay down here in the House of Representatives. It is not the case that Muslims are victims, but we are the victims of Islamization, which people like you have allowed. Why don't you tell me about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u64	Do I understand correctly that Mr Wilders says that Islam, that the Muslims are responsible for the attacks? Is that what he's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u65	Islam, yes. Not all Muslims, no. But Islam certainly, yes. 99 out of 100 attacks are committed by persons who invoke the Qur'an, who call "Allahoe akbar." We wouldn't have had that if we in Europe hadn't gotten a lot of them in the last few decades. Certainly, not all Muslims are terrorists, but almost all terrorists are Muslims, with exceptions. Of course, if they're non-Muslims, the results are just as bad. That is also what I said in my first speech. We, too, as PVV, deplore the victims of this. But don't stand here as Prime Minister and say that Muslims are double victims. We're the victims. We are the victims of people like you, who have flooded our country with Muslims over the past few decades, some of whom have been killed! Use force against us. You can't deny that, can you? Surely you cannot deny that most of the attacks are committed by Islamists? That's not a fantasy of mine, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u66	My ears are really buzzing. Look, there is a problem with groups that have come to the Netherlands against which we have not been sufficiently clear about our norms and values, about our way of life and about our law, in which we expect you to integrate. We have talked for too long about the multicultural society in which groups can co-exist, rather than asking people who come from outside to be aware of what our country is. We get complaints from social education teachers who want to have more clearly what "citizenship" means. The answer to that question is to me that this is the free democratic society with the equality of men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals, whites and blacks. It is also about freedom of expression and freedom of religion. Of course, we agree very widely in this Chamber that major mistakes have been made. But after that observation, which in itself raises a number of social issues that this debate is not about, you cannot say that it has the effect of terrorism. People who go to the mosque on Friday, who are pious, believers as Muslims, who are allowed to profess that faith in this country on the basis of freedom of religion and who want to exercise that faith in a decent manner, must feel co-responsible for the attacks that are taking place here. That is what I hear Mr Wilders saying here. It scares me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u67	Well, that certainly scares you. I just didn't say it. I did say that Islam is the cause and I said in my speech that it is not just a few. 80% of all persons who went from the Netherlands to Syria, the Syrians, are Moroccan. I just said: 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands consider the rules in the Qur'an more important than our secular laws. Those are all university reports. About 80% of Turkish young people think it's okay to use violence against non-Muslims. Of the Muslims in the Netherlands, 1 million, more than 100,000 say 100,000! It is a good thing that they can imagine that they themselves use violence in the name of Islam in the Netherlands. You can't ignore all that, can you? Don't say I'm talking about all Muslims, because it's not, but Islam is a tumor in our society and we have to get rid of it. You can't deny that by just seeing Muslims as some kind of double victims. We are the victims of this Islamization; that is the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u68	The owner of the Turkish supermarket in The Hague's Schilderswijk, who wakes up early every morning, opens his shop, works very hard and goes to the mosque on Friday, also runs the risk of being victims of attacks committed by extremists on behalf of Islam. He's a double victim because he's also at risk of being watched, because he's a Muslim, that he might be responsible for those attacks somewhere. That's what I'm saying here. What Mr Wilders is doing here is so contrary to my liberal belief in life. To people who live in this country with a Moroccan or Turkish background and who try to make a decent contribution, he says: yes, but you do belong to the group of people with whom there are big problems. Surely you can't talk to people about joining that group if they make a decent contribution in this country? That is the very essence of my speech: how can you build a society? Yeah, you gotta name the problems. I too know that there is an overrepresentation of second and third generation immigrants in the wrong statistics. I've said that here before. I also know that the people who eventually travel to Syria to do the most terrible things in the name of Islam are indeed over-representation of people with such a background, but the vast majority in this country is trying to make a decent contribution, to fight a place in this country, to grow their children here, to build a happy life and to contribute to this society. If you make that group more or less jointly responsible, Mr Wilders; let us say very precisely what is happening here, for what the group that does not comply with the rules, you do exactly what those terrorists want, namely to divide this country and drive a wedge in this society. I am the first to name the problems that exist with integration and with the immigrants in this country. I do not need Mr Wilders for that, but if you then say to everyone who is of good will that it belongs to a group that is not good, you are actually working on splitting up this country in two. That's exactly what these terrorists are trying to accomplish. They achieve what they want, because that divides this society. That's exactly what I don't want and what I don't need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u69	That was a long answer, but no response to what I said. Again, I did not say what the Prime Minister is suggesting. He can't listen. The only thing he can say here is that Muslims are double victims. In Europe there is an attack after attack and what does the Prime Minister of the Netherlands say? He doesn't say, "God, shouldn't we have closed the borders and shouldn't we have brought so many Muslims to the Netherlands or to Europe?" No, he says after every attack: I'll come back to remember; it's all beautiful, but Muslims are double victims. What kind of prime minister are you? You shouldn't be Prime Minister if you're talking nonsense like that. I like to get a reaction to what I have said and that is all about majorities. I have said that research by Professor Koopmans shows that 73% of the Dutch Muslims who fight in Syria find heroes. 70% of the Muslims in the Netherlands find 70%! Religious rules, the Sharia and the Koran are more important than the Dutch secular law. 80% of Turkish youngsters in the Netherlands find 80%! Violence against non-believers is not wrong. Research carried out by the University of Amsterdam in 2008 shows this. The same research shows that 11% of the Muslims in the Netherlands are 100,000 Muslims; that is a minority, but they are 100,000 people who are willing to use violence from their faith in the Netherlands. You don't see that in others. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Don't come up with all kinds of mantras about what Wilders said when he didn't say it. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Then you are a prime minister instead of saying that the Muslims are double victims. We're all victims of yours!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u70	If Mr Wilders is talking about 'blèren' and 'nonsense', I assume he means that my statements in his eyes are at odds with what he had found sensible answers. I'm going back to the contents of the case. I have just said that I am the last to deny the problems that exist here. There are very serious problems with integration and with relation to our society, our western free society, of people who belong to the migrant groups who came to the Netherlands in the 1970s and 1980s. There is an integration paradox in the sense that in a number of respects the second and third generations seem to be turning away from our society rather than committing themselves to it. I don't need Mr. Wilders to do that analysis. But that is not what this debate is about. This evening's debate is about terrorist attacks. What Mr Wilders is doing in this debate, and I stand by it, because that's what he's just doing tonight, is saying that Islam is no good. That's one. This means that people who adhere to Islam may, in individual cases, be able to be good, but at least a belief that is not right. And because the vast majority of the attacks are committed by people who do so in the name of Islam, people who adhere to Islam are partly responsible for that. What you do with it is eventually divide this country, drive a wedge in society. In my view, what is sensible politically, and that is why we are here to name the problems. And yes, Mr Wilders is right, there are very big problems of integration in this country. Mistakes were also made in the 1980s and 1990s. We have really tried with this cabinet to launch a number of major changes in the field of integration. Lodewijk Asscher is responsible for this as minister. He has done a great deal about this and we must continue to do so in the coming years. We're not digging and soaking, but we're talking about terrorist attacks here. A Muslim who goes to the mosque on Friday, works hard and makes a positive contribution to this country, has nothing, but nothing at all to do with these attacks. I'm not gonna hold him responsible for that in any way either. In fact, I am holding that stand-up, which is a double victim, because he can be the victim of an attack and is also indirectly looked at by Mr Wilders. You can't build a country like that. Having said that, I come to a few answers that lie on my property. There are very few, because, once again, most of them respect the trade ministers. The first answers to the CDA's question on international rules. That affects human rights. Mr Krol of 50PLUS asked a similar question. Here too, it must be very clear that we stand for universal human rights, the national and European treaties signed by us and our own Constitution. At the same time, we must be careful to give the impression that human rights can be declared absolute. That simply cannot be done. We, as leaders, as politicians, will have to ensure that there is always a legal basis for the measures we take and which are rooted in our democratic society and in our rule of law. In doing so, I say to Mr Krol, we cannot put human rights aside. They are enshrined in the Constitution. They are anchored in the ECHR and thus form a fundamental part of the Dutch rule of law. At the same time, human rights under international law, which is also a fact, can be subject to restrictions, provided that there is a legal basis, as I said earlier, and the restrictions are necessary for democratic society. That is the tension between freedom and security, which also describes Theresa May. In doing so, it is of the utmost importance that our guideline is indeed the rule of law. Mr Blok will give an initial response to the PVV's proposal. We believe that this balance has been lost, but Mr Blok will say something about it in a moment. Because the only way to combat terrorism is with the rule of law. If we don't, we're gonna lose some core values and then the terrorists really won.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u71	Were you actually done answering your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u72	I was done with that question. I have a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u73	Mr Wilders would like to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u74	This can be done after Mrs Buitenweg's interruption, but it cannot be the case that the Prime Minister speaks to me and then I have to wait for Mr Blok's reply. I would also like to discuss our initiative law with the Prime Minister. Otherwise, he shouldn't have said anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u75	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u76	Prime Minister, you say that it is important that we do not make human rights absolute and then you refer very complimentously to your colleague May. Is it not true that it makes human rights rather absolute and says: human rights are in our way? It is true, as you said, that it is possible to violate human rights, provided that it is argued that they are proportionate, necessary and effective. By saying that human rights are in the way, you make them absolutely and then slide them aside. So you're not prepared to make that assessment. The point is indeed that, apart from the ban on torture, they are not absolute and that a balance must be struck. Your colleague May doesn't do enough. It is therefore the one who makes human rights absolutely and then puts it aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u77	As much as I am fond of my colleague May, I did not want to compliment her. I have just quoted a comment, I believe, from Mr Krol or... At least someone here made that remark or referred it to Theresa May in the first term of the Chamber. It may have come from the CDA, Mrs Van Toorenbrug, but I'm not sure. I would like to say that Mrs May has indeed made that point. I didn't want to qualify them as positive or negative. I have just said that it is true in itself that we, as politicians, must make that assessment. But if there were any misunderstandings that I made her point to mine or that I think her policy is sensible on that point, then that goes too far here. I'm just not going to evaluate the entire British policy here right now. I just wanted to outline that, of course, we have to make a decision by our drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u78	I understand that you do not want to comment on Mrs Theresa May's comment, but do you agree with me that human rights do not stand in the way of security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u79	Human rights do not stand in the way of security. Only, the point I want to make is that human rights are not absolute in that sense. Some of them are, like the ban on torture. In that sense, it is not absolute that you can say: these are human rights, which lie like a block in the middle, and so it is always an absolute answer whether or not a measure is contrary to human rights. That's the point I wanted to make. If only it were that easy, because then our lives here as directors and politicians would also be easier. In the end, we will have to make that assessment. I did not want to support Theresa May's policy and I did not want to reject it either. It is good practice among European Heads of Government to make as little comment as possible on what the other is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u80	I understand very well that you do not want to do so, but you have served it up in substance, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u81	I'm glad you think you heard that in my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u82	Let that be exactly why I got up, because I felt that last sentence coming. I would be sorry if the Prime Minister was torching it off. What she did, in fact, is indicate that she thinks that a European debate should be held. I actually understand from the Prime Minister that he doesn't need it. I'd think that was a missed opportunity. Nor is it the only one who occasionally points out that we need to look at the way in which our international conventions are being implemented. They are spacious. We all know that with each other. I would be sorry if the Prime Minister said that if a government leader were to engage in such a debate, I would not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u83	She has never engaged in this debate. I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg once asked the Minister of V and J, Stef Blok, to do so in the RBZ. That is what she asked in the morning in a debate on an IAB which would take place in the evening where that subject was not on the agenda. Mr Blok did not want to say that he did not want to have that discussion there, but it is impossible at a European meeting prepared by 28 countries to think in the morning that you want to add a very big new theme that evening. I want to take away that misunderstanding. Mr Blok can also very well imagine that in the RBZ, I am sorry, the JHA, the JHA Council or the European Council will discuss it. Mrs May never took the initiative. I find it interesting in itself what Mrs Van Toorenburg says here. Not that I am going to have a major European debate on this question. What I will certainly do if we have a discussion there on how to deal with terrorism and the clash with a number of fundamental rights, in this case human rights, obviously requires attention. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u84	With all due respect, it's a little silly what the Prime Minister's doing right now. I have done nothing in the debate but what the Prime Minister says. Of course you don't put that on the agenda at night. Here's what I said. If a leader of a European country says that we should have this discussion in Europe and no other government leader openly says that he agrees or disagrees with it, then you leave everyone in the dark. I would like the Prime Minister to give a commitment today: if it is on the agenda for another discussion, I would like to know where it is sanding and where England thinks it is sanding and whether those are opportunities that we as the Netherlands can also think about. That is the only commitment I have asked the Minister for Security and Justice earlier, and I may now see a slight light in the non-verbal attitude of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u85	Yes, but first I'm going to defend the Minister of Security and Justice here. I asked him why he kept that from happening. And then he said: I didn't hold it off, I never wanted to hold it off, but the question in the morning was to treat it at the JHA Council in the evening and that wasn't possible. So that is obviously a procedural misunderstanding between Mr Blok and Mrs Van Toorenburg, otherwise the impression is given here that I want something that Mr Blok does not want. Mr Blok and I agree on everything and if not, we agree on everything. I would also like to say the following. If at the European Council on the subject of combating terrorism, which we discussed last week, there was a need to talk about the sanding of these different principles, I am, of course, immediately prepared to do so, which is even obvious in order to discuss how this plays a role in the various countries and how it relates to a number of European values. So there is no doubt about that; Mrs Van Toorenburg thinks I am on her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u86	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u87	Finally, absolutely. If everyone is going to look at each other to see who brings the subject up first, I would like the Prime Minister to do so himself, if possible. Can I hear that from the Prime Minister? That is the debate that must ultimately be held. If everyone's gonna look at each other, it's like nothing in the middle, on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u88	This is how it works in the European Council. It's not like you're going to have a debate on human rights there. Then there is a debate about the fight against terrorism, which is very practical. I admit that if this were a relevant topic in that discussion, I would certainly bring it in myself, at that time. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u89	It is not a bad thing that the Prime Minister and I in his time have anything to do with Islam, immigration and his responsibility, but I hope that we can conduct the debate on our own initiative law on a business basis and on the basis of arguments. The Prime Minister just said he doesn't think our initiative law is legal, or anything like that. May I ask the Prime Minister for an opinion on our initiative law? I know that it is an initiative law that is initially before the Chamber, so we are still going to have that discussion, but without wanting to have the full discussion on that bill, I ask the Prime Minister whether he does not agree with me that the most important thing about a rule of law is that the government, of course with legitimate means, defends the citizens and ensures that innocent people are not murdered. It doesn't work in the rest of Europe. This does not work with the current resources either; it does not work with criminal law. According to the AIVD, an intelligence service of about 2,000 men, we have thousands of sympathizers and hundreds of jihadists in the Netherlands. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that you are irresponsible if you do not look further at what else we should do to protect the people? Then it is appropriate to take an administrative measure to take people who are dangerous off the streets, not just on the basis of information from the intelligence services, a decision by the minister and a judge's test so that they can not murder innocent civilians. That is our responsibility. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u91	That is the essence of our law. Again, that is at the heart of our law. I will not read the whole list again, as I did in my first term, but there is a group of people who have not been able to deal with criminal law and who have been released or have not even been arrested, who have committed attacks throughout Europe. This can happen in the Netherlands tomorrow. That's why our bill is so important. Why don't you take a serious look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u92	I believe that the legislative proposal, which will also prove to be the case when we have the legal treatment here, is contrary to our rule of law. In fact, it is impossible, without the courts interfering and there is a demonstrable suspicion of a criminal offence, on which a judicial test is also taking place, to allow for complete deprivation of liberty to take place. In the bill, this can already be done on the basis of directions from the AIVD. I can't. Other than that, I don't think it's necessary. May I point out, for example, what happened today? We now have a package of laws and rules in the Netherlands. I dare to say here that the Netherlands, with its whole package of counter-terrorism legislation, but within the rule of law, is one of the strictest countries in Europe. I think we can really say that here. We have in recent years... Mrs. Van Tellegen... or is it Mrs. Tellegen now? I'm starting to doubt, because someone said "Van Tellegen."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u93	No, it's Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u94	Yes, it's Mrs. Tellegen, without "Van." Someone said today "Van"; Von Tellegen sounds even more chic, but it is Mrs Tellegen. Then I had the name right; I was shocked. Mrs Tellegen rightly said that a great deal has happened in the area of legislation in recent years. How does that work out in practice? I refer, for example, to the recent arrests of people against whom there were serious suspicions. That's what the media reported on. Also look at what the Rotterdam Court has done today in a criminal case against ten men suspected of joining a terrorist organisation. The prosecution claims that these people are in a battle zone in Syria or Iraq and have joined a terrorist organisation there. The judge finally decided today to impose sanctions in a number of cases. That's an example. A second example: people returning from terrorist territory to the Netherlands can now be picked up in all cases. That is also what happens in practice. The existing legislation thus makes it possible to intervene where necessary. If the AIVD has serious suspicions against someone, which makes it necessary to proceed to arrest, then just a notice of office will be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and then it will. Mr Wilders' bill puts another layer over it in the "steering" section. If that were necessary in order to protect the Netherlands, we would have to look seriously at it, but I think 1) that the existing system is sufficiently protective of us and 2) that there is a fundamental problem with Mr Wilders' proposal, regardless of the superfluousness. This is in conflict with a number of fundamental principles of our rule of law. We can differ on that. I think we should work that out if that bill is cut here. I appreciate that the initiative has been tabled and that this time there is a complete legislative initiative proposal. Mr Verhoeven was right that this does not always happen, but here it is, and that is good. In the end, however, a complete removal of those against whom there is no suspicion of a criminal offence does not fit into our rule of law, which is at the heart of Mr Wilders' bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u95	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u96	The PVV doesn't want to be tough. Comments on other legislative proposals... It doesn't suit you at all. It would please you if you looked at the contents. The content says that there is a judicial test and that it is not contrary to our Constitution. But more importantly, I would not want to be in the Prime Minister's shoes if something were to happen immediately, as in Germany, Berlin, as in Belgium, Brussels, as in England, Manchester and London, or as in France, in Paris. Those people were known to the intelligence services, but there were still insufficient criminal offences, criminal offences to deal with and arrest them. If such a person attacks here in the Netherlands, I would not want to be in the Prime Minister's shoes. All those victims in all those countries, all the relatives of those victims would have wanted them to have such a law, Mr. Prime Minister. They wanted the bombers in Manchester, London, Berlin and Paris to be apprehended, because they were already known to the intelligence services. Then their loved ones and their relatives would still be alive. That is defending the rule of law. I hope you won't ever be standing here. Nor do I hope that there will ever be such an attack in the Netherlands, but if it comes from someone you could have picked up but refuses to take up with an appeal to the rule of law, then the turnips are really cooked. Then I would hate to be in your shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u97	It is starting to stink, Mr Wilders, because here Mr Wilders is actually saying: if there is an attack in the Netherlands and if this PVV bill, which is contrary to the rule of law, has not been adopted, then you are guilty of it. That's what he says. I think this place is gonna smell like shit. I think I'll leave it at that. I have said it before: we are working day and night, with thousands and thousands of people in the Netherlands, to keep this country safe from attacks, to prevent attacks. I cannot guarantee that there will be no attack in the Netherlands, but I can guarantee that the best people in the Netherlands will work on this day and night. We support this administratively and politically on all sides. We have implemented a great deal of legislation and are still implementing it in order to provide maximum legal support, but the answer can never be that, in the fight against terrorism, we are going to undermine the foundations of our rule of law. It can't be. I'll see if I've answered the questions that were with me. I think I've answered them all now. Oh, yeah. I was asked if there were enough Arabic speakers working at the AIVD. Work is under way to further increase that number. The AIVD can use it, but is working to expand the number further. This also applies more widely to the intelligence services, that Arabic speakers work. The second question I remember is that I do not have it in front of me for a moment. It was where we are now, given the cuts in the 2012 government agreement. To that question I can answer that we have all reversed these cuts and made additional investments. At the beginning of 2015, we invested another 128 million. Based on the current insights, we do what is necessary. Some additional investments have also been announced in the Spring paper. We are, of course, looking at this again in the 2018 budget with the outgoing cabinet, and I am sure that will happen in the formation. We keep looking at whether we should do extra things on the basis of the latest insights. I know that there is very broad support in this Chamber to do so, and that money could not be a reason to postpone for us certain matters that we must do in the fight against terrorism. We can't let that happen. So those cuts didn't go through. They've been reversed. At the moment, the services are getting out of their way, but we are constantly critical of what is needed in terms of both money and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u98	Much dislike and hatred of our freedom and democracy is fed by Salafist organizations. I am glad that we finally have the beginning of a list, but I do see that organisations such as El-Tawheed, Al-Waqf and As-Soennah have been active in our country since the 1980s, the early 1990s, and are, above all, fed ideologically but also financially from countries such as Saudi Arabia. How is it possible that no action has been taken against this, I ask the Prime Minister. I can see him disappearing under the chair, but I still have one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u99	I'm still here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u100	How is it possible that in all these decades this has never happened? Why has Saudi Arabia never been called upon to do so? Why isn't that being done politically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u101	Mr Asscher will answer the question about Salafism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u102	The Minister may be sitting on the ground, but I had asked him a question about Saudi Arabia. I do not know whether Mr Asscher is specialized in the administration on the Saudi Arabia dossier, but perhaps I can repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u103	That won't be necessary. If I'm here alone, I'll answer all the questions. As far as the general considerations are concerned, I do so of course. In that moment, I am Minister of all matters. But if there is a debate with the trade ministers, then I will answer the general introductory questions and the questions which at that time do not concern one of the other ministers present. They answer all questions in the field of Ministers. This question will be answered by Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u104	I do not think so, because Mr Asscher is still not a foreign minister. That is why I ask the Prime Minister why we allow organisations in the Netherlands to be deliberately supported ideologically and financially from Saudi Arabia for decades; organisations that preach dislike and hate our freedom and democracy. Why hasn't there ever been any action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u105	This question directly addresses the issue of integration in the Netherlands. The Minister for Social Affairs is responsible for this. Moreover, I can reassure Mr Van Raak that I agree with the answer he is going to give a thousand percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u106	Thank you. Let me now give you the floor... who's next, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u107	Me! I'd like to make a point of this. We are having a debate here with the Prime Minister on a serious issue. I'm asking a serious question about Saudi Arabia. The Prime Minister does three things. He miraculously disappears under the speaker chair...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u108	I dropped my call and tried to get it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u109	Then the Prime Minister shouldn't be looking at calls at a time when I'm asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u110	I didn't, and that's why it fell.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u111	Then he starts laughing and then he refuses to answer my questions. I'm not in the mood for this, Mr. Chairman. I also think that you should address the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u112	I think Mr Van Raak should think about whether he wants to have a procedural debate with me here, but it is very simple for me. If I am the only Prime Minister here, for example, about the European Council, or if the entire cabinet is here in the declaration of government and in the debate on Princess Day, then I will answer all the questions. But when I stand here on a subject involving the trade ministers, we divide the answer in such a way that the trade ministers answer the questions that concern their areas. That's how it works. I really want to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u113	Could I make a point of order? I fully agree with the Prime Minister, so that's not the point. We have had debates on terrorism many times. It's fine that we feed it. There are many repetitions of moves and then we are going to repeat all the answers of members of the cabinet three, four times. That won't be necessary at all. Let us deal briefly and clearly with the issues we are asking for and not repeat everything endlessly because everyone wants to make an interruption about terrorism once and for all. It's not gonna help anybody.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u114	Thank you. Mr Van Raak, if the question is not answered later, you can come back to that. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u115	Mr. Chairman. Although there were a lot of differences between the contributions of Members of Parliament, the common thread was the enormous horror of the attacks that have been committed and the great desire that we can prevent them in the Netherlands. That is also the full commitment of the cabinet, knowing that unfortunately you can never give the guarantee that it will be. I very much appreciate the compliments made by Mr Krol and Mr Van Raak to the services, the people who work there day and night. Moreover, I am sure that this appreciation is shared by all Members of Parliament. We have laid down the great commitment of the cabinet in the action plan on jihadism. In this context, a large number of laws have already been submitted to the Chamber. Important measures have been adopted, always within the limits of the rule of law, e.g. withdrawal of Dutch citizenship after conviction, a law on the preparation of the manufacture of explosives, selective housing allocation, adaptation of the Passport Act, the Temporary Act on administrative measures to combat terrorism, already mentioned in the debate, and termination of benefits and surcharges. In the First Chamber are currently the Computer Crime Act and the Intelligence and Security Services Act. The Chamber today received a bill to extend, for example, pre-trial detention and to extend the use of DNA for detection. The draft law on the use of passenger data under the European agreements is still in preparation, with a view to taking further action in this area. All this is indeed to ensure that the services can do their useful work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u116	Following on from Mr Verhoeven's comment, the Minister is just one minute busy. A lot of questions have been asked, including the Minister of Security and Justice. I should therefore like to suggest that the Minister shakes you, no, Mrs Tellegen, while I am not ready to finish his speech. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. I think the minister was in the middle of his introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u117	Mr President, I am prepared to respond at any time to any interruptions by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u118	Mrs Tellegen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u119	Thank you. I just want to ask a question about a law that the Minister has just spoken about, which has just been sent to the Chamber. I'm reading something on NOW.nl. It is a great wish of the VVD to criminalise presence on terrorist territory. Now there is an article on NU.nl with the headline "Stay in terrorist territory according to bill Minister Blok not punishable." I hope that head doesn't cover the shipment of the article. It doesn't seem necessary. Can the Minister elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u120	A head is always a very short attempt to summarize reality. The law contains a large number of measures, of which I have just mentioned a few examples. The area of criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory, Mrs Van Toorenburg, had asked a question about it that I still wanted to answer, but I will do so now and raised a number of critical questions at the Council of State. The Cabinet considers this law important. Mrs Van Toorenburg also explicitly asked, as she had done before, to submit them quickly to the Chamber so that she could ensure a rapid treatment. From that point of view, I have decided not to submit that part to the Chamber at this time. If there are many questions from the Council of State, I know that I have to take them seriously and that this may lead to more objections in the Chamber. Some of the laws I just mentioned had broad support. However, there are also laws that I have really been able to drag through the Second or the First Chamber with one vote difference. In the consideration "very complete with the risk of delay" or "slightly less complete, but with the hope that a quick treatment can take place," I chose the latter. This does not mean that the criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory is completely out of place, but I want to take a serious look at the objections. I would also like to take a serious look at the experience that has been gained. A number of convictions have now taken place, and the Prime Minister also pointed out that people who have been or intended to have been there have been there. As a result, there is more clarity about the space that existing laws already offer. In short, it is not definitive, but at the moment it is not part of this bill. Since Mr Wilders has already had a wide-ranging debate with the Prime Minister on his initiative law, I do not think that much remains to be done. I would like to mention one point, namely that a large number of the examples mentioned by Mr Wilders when he introduced his law are already punishable at the moment, such as the distribution and exhibition of inflammatory images and texts. Mr Wilders mentioned videos. This has been prosecuted, for example in the Context case. This was also about waving ISIS flags, an example that Mr Wilders mentioned. The consultation of jihadist propaganda can also be part of criminalisation. In addition to the conflict with the rule of law referred to by the Prime Minister, we will, of course, look seriously at the law when cases are already criminal and have already led to punishment. I come now to Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions, which dealt specifically with the situation of women and children who are now living in jihadist territory and who may return. This led the cabinet to ask Mrs Azough as rapporteur to look at how we can better support them in consultation with municipalities and youth care institutions. A publication has also been published on this subject. The NCTV has also drawn the necessary attention to this. We have specifically addressed the risk that children will return and that young children will also be radicalised and likely to engage in violence. I also said earlier in the Chamber that maintaining is the standard procedure for returning from jihadist territory. In the case of minors, of course, very careful consideration will be given, in consultation with youth care, to how we can initiate deradicalisation. But Mrs Van Toorenburg's key question was: have we thought about this and are the bodies that have to work on it prepared for that? The answer to that is yes. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked a question about the report about the Turkish fight teams that might be active in the Netherlands. That message is in the threat statement that the NCTV just brought out. We do not have any indication that the group is currently preparing extrajudicial actions in the Netherlands. But of course we keep our finger on the wrist carefully. That is why attention is being paid to it in this week's report. Where the limit of the law is exceeded, criminal measures will of course be taken. I have just answered the question about the criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory at the time of the interruption. Mr Krol also asked, with a slightly different approach, how we are now dealing with people who have been radicalised. I've just gone into what we do when people return from terrorist territory. They're getting picked up by default. Mr Krol also knows the examples from the press. For people who are staying in the Netherlands and who we are concerned about, there is, of course, the whole palette of the use of criminal law, of security services, but also of assistance to prevent people from slipping through. That's what happens in what's called the case meeting. In it, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, municipalities and, for example, youth care are represented when young people are in the picture. They sit around the table and look at the measures to be taken with such a person or family. It also looks at how, for example, children can be prevented from radicalising if one member of the family has been captured. That really happens at the level of the person. In my conversations with police and district agents about this, I'm literally told that they go there sometimes. Then they ask, "How are you?" They'll say, "Yeah, we'll follow a little bit of what you're doing." So also with the Dutch way of district-oriented police-involvement that is really followed very intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u121	I'll be back on the Turkish brawl crews. This is not for nothing in the Threat Picture. The Minister says we will take action. However, I find that a little vague. I specifically referred to the situation in which someone is committing violence for another power in the Netherlands. You could compare that to going into strange military service to commit violence. There are plans for how we deal with Syrians. Do we have instruments that are similar and which might enable us to provide a more appropriate response to situations such as the Turkish fight squad? I want the Minister to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u122	As Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, the possibilities of withdrawing nationality have been extended. That measure was part of the list I just mentioned. I also said that this was included in the Threat Statue because our services are concerned about this, without us having any indication that there is already a fight team active. Of course, this concern means that we are paying close attention to it and where it is necessary criminal action. For that we have all the criminal instruments at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u123	In concrete terms, my question is whether we also have the opportunity to denaturalize people because they are here in the Netherlands in the service of a foreign power in a violent way. That is my specific question. If the Minister is unable to answer that question now, can he inform the Chamber of that question after further analysis? That is the thinking I have for the situation in which people are being directed from another country to commit violence in the Netherlands. Is such a situation also considered for that kind of possibility? Would that fit or should that fit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u124	It will not surprise Mrs Van Toorenburg that the answer to that is: that depends on what is happening. Point one: is there a dual nationality? This is necessary in order to be able to withdraw nationality. Point two: does the person meet one of the criteria? This concerns either participation in terrorist activity or the fact that it has entered foreign military service. At the moment, I do not think that we need to amend a law for that. A concrete case with the concrete evidence is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u125	I would like to thank the Minister for the general answers he gave, but I also mentioned two examples: the Hague council member who was allowed to hotten up entire tribes with anti-Semitic texts and the demonstration last Friday at the Square, in front of the House of Representatives, whose aim was to destroy the State of Israel. Then what's the rebuttal we hear from the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u126	If a councilman makes a ruling, I assume the rest of the board will reply. If criminal judgments are made anywhere, or here on the Square, or at any other place, then they can be filed and prosecuted. The right to demonstrate and freedom of expression are a great asset. I have had debates with Mr Van Raak on how to intervene too quickly in demonstrations. I have the impression that Mr Krol is leaning a little towards the other side. The government's line is: it is a great good thing to be able to demonstrate, freedom of expression is also a great thing, but there are limits that you do not cross in the Netherlands, for example calls for violence. If criminal judgments are made, they can either be filed or the Public Prosecutor himself can act. I come to Mr Verhoeven's questions. He and later Mrs Tellegen asked whether the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme was being evaluated. That's the case. It's done by the Department of Security and Justice. After the summer, the Chamber will receive the report. Mr Verhoeven asked for additional measures specific to the monitoring of passenger data. The Act on Air Passengers is in preparation on the basis of a European Directive. The Netherlands, together with neighbouring countries Belgium, France and the United Kingdom, is now investigating the possibility of collecting data on high-speed international lines in addition to aviation. There will also be a look at bus lines. In addition, we look at the practical aspects. In the Netherlands high-speed trains do not depart from separate platforms, as is the case in England, for example. That's what makes control more complicated. It must, of course, also take place here within the limits of the rule of law. At the same time, I fully understand that there is a desire to do so in other forms of transport where passenger data is controlled in aviation in order to combat and prosecute terrorism. I will, of course, inform the Chamber as soon as there is progress in the consultations with our neighbouring countries. Mr Verhoeven asked about security against cyber attacks. When it comes to terrorism, tonight's main topic, the instrument of cyber attacks is fortunately an instrument that has not been widely deployed to date. As far as today's message is concerned, I can at least inform you that the Cyber Security Council is now meeting to consider what measures need to be taken. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Buitenweg asked about the World-Check list, its status, how you got on and how you got off. The World Check list is a data file compiled by a private company, Thomson Reuters, containing a collection of public data. It's okay. It's an independent decision of that company to make that list. So that company also decides who gets put on it and who gets taken off again. Mrs Buitenweg asked: isn't that a government task? Where terrorist organisations are really involved, there are, of course, international lists, which are used, for example, to tackle terrorist financing. But I suppose Mrs Buitenweg wouldn't want the government to just draw up lists of people who might or might not be able to open a bank account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u127	We know that all these lists are needed so that we can see who is involved in these financial transactions. I understand that a call has been made in the European Parliament for the European Commission and the Member States themselves to see how they can draw up a list. Because the minister can say it's not up to the state to make that list, but someone has to make that list. If the Minister himself does not draw up that list, is there anyone who checks how those commercial lists are qualitative and in what way people can actually get off that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u128	However, a little more precision than in this question. I didn't say the government doesn't make a list. I have said that governments make a list of terrorist organisations that we have on this list, for example, with a view to funding. In addition, other lists of persons or companies can be made in a free society. That doesn't mean immediately that the government is going to control that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u129	Is there any reason why brokers, banks, etc. should go to World-Check? In my opinion, the list made by the government of terrorist suspects is quite brief compared to all kinds of data that banks apparently need in the context of all kinds of responsibilities they see to control people. So what is the reason, in the eyes of the Minister, that all those financial service providers are moving to look at the list of World-Check and not the list of terrorist suspects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u130	Now Mrs Buitenweg asks a minister why private companies do or do not do something. A private company makes choices in the individuals or companies with which it wants to do business. Especially in the financial services, where you do risk assessments, it is very common to say "with this party" or "with this party not." The government intervenes when there are urgent reasons for this in the fight against crime, money laundering, but not outside. I would almost say that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u131	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u132	I find this somewhat inappropriate, because there are many people on that list who do not get rid of it and who do have a big problem with it. I can tell from the Minister that he is thinking: that is not my deal. I think that's a bad thing, because those people are just out of law. I think it is indeed an interest, including for the Minister, to ensure that those people have an opportunity to get off that list. The Minister does not necessarily have to make such a list with cutting and sticking, but it is the Minister's responsibility that people have an opportunity to sue if they do not have access to all kinds of facilities or services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u133	Mrs Buitenweg is always indignant about something else. Now her point is, can people get off that list? That's really different from the question she just asked me: do you check all those lists? Well, obviously we've had that point. Can people get off that list? Yes, in a rule of law, you can ask the author of that list: can I get off? If the answer is "no," then you can go to court and say: I am suffering damage from the fact that I am on this list; take me off. So here too, the rule of law works. But that's really different from the question: does the government want to make lists of its own? That was the first question. The second question was: do you want to check all those lists? Then I come to the question by Mr Azarkan, who asked me what measures are being taken to ensure the safety of mosques. With Mr Azarkan, I am concerned about the signals about threats against mosques. In any case, I welcome the fact that where this crazy attack took place in Enschede, the Dutch rule of law worked and the perpetrators were convicted of terrorism. In the security of buildings or religious institutions there is always a threat assessment by the services, by the Public Prosecutor's Office and by the police. You cannot, in general, judge any type of religious institution. Unfortunately, in addition to threats to mosques, there are threats to synagogues and a Catholic priest was murdered not so long ago in France. This means that the services are looking very closely at the real threat. If there's any reason to do so, security will be strengthened. A hand-out has been made specifically for mosque authorities and municipalities that state how to deal with the threat, who to engage and who to warn. Mr Asscher and I have also had extensive consultations with mosque organisations in order not only to share the concerns but also to examine with them what measures we could take. But the decision on building security is always a decision based on an urgent signal about the threat that is taking place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u134	I have once again been reminded by a number of mosques here in the West that of Leiden, among other things, that it is really important that there should be support. I know the hand-out; I myself have had a number of these conversations. But, that's how I ask the Minister, has there ever been any financial aid for mosques from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u135	Security or financial assistance for security is there when there really is a very concrete threat indication. Mr Azarkan will understand that I am not going to tell you here via the microphone whether and where it is. The balance is always there: if there is a very concrete indication of threat, then all the necessary measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u136	Can I then conclude that that threat, that threat image, is not there, despite the fact that yesterday again the As-Soennah mosque threats came in? They were concrete with a truck, even if it was a replica. How far is that supposed to go? I repeat my question: has there been financial support for these mosques or is it just paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u137	I also ask Mr Azarkan for more precision in his wording. That there is a threat towards mosques was also in the threat picture. In fact, we have discussed this in detail. In a debate the statements may be a bit harsh, but then Mr Azarkan cannot put me in the mouth that I would have said that there would be no threat towards mosques? I didn't say that. This is not the first time that we have been able to talk about this, but it has always been a common thread that there is a threat, that we take it seriously, that Mr Asscher and I have had extensive contact for that reason, that information has been provided which, fortunately, Mr Azarkan also knows, but that it is always an individual consideration per place, per building, per religious institution or to what extent measures are being taken. I am not going to share with the microphone exactly what measures are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u138	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u139	I will ask my final question, Mr President. Let me be clear: have you ever given a penny, just to speak in old-Holland's money, in guilders, to a mosque for security, so that people can just pray on Friday, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u140	I'm not going into individual security measures. I come to Mrs Tellegen's questions. It examined the situation of workers or loaners in vital companies following the recent events at Volkel. She asked: is a vog, an explanation of behavior, mandatory there? Businesses or public institutions can make the assessment themselves, with the exception of a number of security services that we centrally control, for which functions exactly they request an explanation of behaviour. Companies are free to do so. We are in close contact with vital companies and organisations about the risks they face. We will approach them again in the very short term to point out to them the risks they run and the possibility of asking for an explanation of behaviour, but it is always their own decision for which functions and parts of the terrain they do so. It is difficult to judge from The Hague exactly for which part of a company such a vog is needed or not. Once again, however, we will draw their attention explicitly to the risks and the possibilities for action. Mrs Tellegen also asked what is meant by the expression in the threat picture that many of the perpetrators of attacks were in the picture with the intelligence and security services. If you're in the picture with an intelligence and security service, that doesn't mean you're also subject to extensive investigation. The Dutch security service receives dozens of notifications per month and also has information from its own investigation. Each time, the potential threat posed by those individuals is assessed. Based on a very careful prioritization, the AIVD in other countries determines that the local security services are responsible for which persons are being investigated and to what extent they are being followed. The persons mentioned here are all found in the security services' systems. That could be the whole palette: from once having had a notification to being the subject of intensive monitoring by a security service. Mrs. Kuik asked what we are doing with regard to Internet providers to remove criminal content. As Mrs Kuik knows, the Internet Referral Unit will start in the Netherlands to do this from the Netherlands. Interpol has such a unit and a number of other countries are also doing so. Of course, we work closely together, because the Internet is logically not bound to one country. In addition, the European Commission has concluded a code of conduct with the major providers. Mrs. Kuik mentioned Facebook among other things. That code of conduct is closed with Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and Google to prevent online hate speech. It has been agreed that these companies will respond to these notifications within 24 hours. Together, these companies have created a single platform, allowing if one of them receives a notification, that notification is also shared with others and the content can be deleted more quickly. Mr Hiddema indicated that only infiltrating would work if I understood him correctly. He referred to the book of Zeegers. That is indeed an interesting book. Knowing the employees of the services, they certainly took note of that. Mr Hiddema also referred to the threat posed by lone wolves. I do not think that infiltration is the right procedure. That is why our services are using many more methods. Once again, unfortunately, this does not happen with the guarantee that we will always be able to prevent attacks, but because we want to use all possible means within the rule of law to prevent such a terrible attack from taking place. I hope I have answered the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u141	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u142	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u143	Yeah, where's the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u144	Where's the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u145	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u146	We're having a debate with him. He doesn't have to be there every minute, but he hasn't been there in half an hour. I wouldn't want to move on until he gets here. Maybe he's under the chair. But without fooling around, this is a debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u147	They're looking for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u148	Let's wait for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u149	I think he's around. We're gonna wait a minute, but I noticed it, too. He's coming back; I hear something. You were missed, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u150	I agree with all their answers!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u151	Mr. Chairman. Three years ago, in the summer of 2014, I presented the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme with the Minister of Security and Justice on behalf of the Cabinet. It contains 38 measures and consists of two parts: the whole criminal law approach but also a preventive approach. This includes the fact that development never stands still. The Prime Minister has just described how this is being done on a daily basis and how it is being discussed with all the services on a weekly basis. I can add that there is no political basis in that consultation. For me it is an important and impressive moment, because there is a very good and secure view of what we have to do. All the questions that are also raised in the Chamber are dealt with there: are we going far enough or are we not going too far? There is also a need to respond to a changing type of threat. This means that our current approach is indeed different from the one we proposed three years ago. That makes sense, because the modes of operandi and the types of threat are changing, and we need to respond to that. The Chamber has quite rightly congratulated security services, police, justice and diplomats. I would add that local government is also working very hard to remove threats, to discuss case for case, and sometimes to react with youth care and sometimes with the police. There very important work is being done to prevent such a horrible thing happening in the Netherlands. The same applies to professionals in education, youth care and so on. As part of the preventive approach, therefore, there has been a great deal of investment in training teachers so that they can recognise signals, but also in explaining how you can have complex conversations in the classroom, trying to make young people resistant to propaganda by the child lurers of evil. Those are the ones trying to pull kids on the wrong side. Investment has also been made in youth care professionals to discuss taboos instead of avoiding them, and in co-operation between police at neighbourhood level and others nearby to recognise in good time that something is not going well with a younger person, so that we can intervene before it is too late. At the same time, we must realise that there are no guarantees. I've spoken to parents who have lost children who have left. Sometimes they blame the government and sometimes themselves. The tragedy is enormous, because of the lives these children have destroyed and because they have often destroyed their own lives. The Minister of Justice has already said that this approach is, of course, being evaluated. I hope that lessons can be learned from this so that some of the things we have developed can become structural and we can continue to do so in the coming years. Unfortunately, I am convinced that this threat will remain with us. In this context, much has also been invested in contact with the Islamic communities in the Netherlands, in a permanent process, to offer protection but also to invite and challenge people to help defend Dutch society and the rule of law against those who attack the rule of law. In this context, this Chamber has also rightly held the debate on Salafism, on Salafist organizations, on the nature of the Salafist ideology and what that means for the Dutch rule of law. At the same time, everyone in this Chamber knows that this is a difficult discussion, because there are no watertight definitions. Following the Roemer/Zijlstra motion, we have now presented a kind of intermediate product, a list of organisations, of which you can see from open sources that they are salafistic. That will, hopefully this summer, be followed by a report, after which the cabinet will have to find something. I think it is important to use precision in that too. Not all organisations that we would call Salafists consider themselves to be Salafists, and not all organisations that we call Salafists act in violation of the law or have the aim of acting in violation of the law. However, the AIVD reports show that they can form the basis for radicalisation and worse. So there is something going on and we have something to do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u152	I'm glad that list came up, but I thought it was very short. I myself have also made a list of a number of people who have been active in this type of organisation but have been deradicalised again. That list is a lot longer, but we're gonna talk about it later. I want the Minister to answer the question I also asked the Prime Minister. He has promoted Mr Asscher to Minister for Foreign Affairs, so congratulations! Many of these organisations have been active since the 1980s and are ideologically and financially fed from Saudi Arabia. These are organisations that preach hatred and hatred against our freedom and democracy. Why hasn't there ever been any action? Why wasn't it ever made political? Why wasn't there ever an end to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u153	I myself welcome the fact that in such a debate the Prime Minister does not mow all the grass at the feet of the trade ministers, otherwise we will be sitting here for bacon and beans. This question does indeed touch on the field of foreign affairs, but also on the issue of unwanted funding in the Netherlands. This has rightly been placed on the agenda with urgency in recent years, partly at the request of the Chamber. We know that foreign financing of institutions as such is not a criminal offence and is also very difficult to criminalise. The Netherlands is engaged at various levels in talks with the Gulf authorities to increase transparency with regard to funding flows from foreign organisations that donate to Islamic institutions in the Netherlands. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait inform the Netherlands about organisations in these countries that request funding from religious institutions in the Netherlands. This is done on a voluntary and confidential basis as part of national monitoring procedures for funding flows abroad. With this confidential information, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait want to prevent such funding from being in breach of the Dutch rule of law. They want, of course, to avoid reputational damage for themselves. In the letter on unwanted financing sent by the cabinet a few months ago, the Netherlands indicated that we want to extend and better define these agreements and thereby increase transparency. It is appropriate to distinguish between terrorist financing, which is, of course, already criminal and for which instruments have been developed, both internationally and nationally, and on which we are also acting, and financing which is not related to terrorism, but which we nevertheless consider undesirable. We find it undesirable because it can lead to ideology and behaviour that is at odds with the rule of law. At the same time, that discussion was also held by previous speakers... there is a heavy obligation on us to define that category in such a way that it does not undermine the rule of law itself. That is why the cabinet has announced its intention to come forward with legislation. This concerns legislation on the basis of criteria whereby you consider financing not as terrorist financing, as it is already punishable, but as unwanted financing. Then you can stop it. These criteria will have to be developed on the basis of the project which is in fact already under way. Finance is involved, as is the Tax Administration, the Police and the Justice Department. Money flows are analysed. On this basis, we need to be able to achieve sustainable criteria in the rule of law in order to prevent funding. The answer to the question why this has not been stopped before is as follows. If there's any connection to terror, it already does. If that is not the case, we have an obligation to define properly why we consider it undesirable. The cabinet is working on that. A subsequent cabinet will eventually have to file that law, but we have informed the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u154	The Chamber has often stated that we do not want such organisations to be financed from abroad. If you know which organizations they are and if they get money from abroad, I think one plus one is two and it's not that hard. That was just not my question. My question is this. The government sees Saudi Arabia as a good friend in the Middle East. At the same time, it is a country that has been feeding ideological and financial organisations in the Netherlands for decades, since the 1980s, that preach hatred and hatred against our freedom and democracy, and that sets citizens of the Netherlands against the Netherlands. That's not a friend, is it? Why isn't that made political? Why isn't that being dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u155	I leave the qualification "good friend" for Mr Van Raak. That's not how I see it at all. Only, in the world around us, there are countries other than good friends like Belgium and Luxembourg, which you are dealing with. It is true that financing from abroad is not prohibited in itself and is not undesirable in itself, even if it comes from countries where there are even very scary ideas from the public. It is a question of the purpose and purpose of the funding. Then I agree with Mr Van Raak again. I believe that there is every reason to improve and strengthen legislation in this area and, yes, even to look at the edge of what the rule of law allows to prevent unwanted financing, other than terrorist financing. I do not agree with Mr Van Raak that it is as simple as 'one and one is two'. Defining which organisations are eligible and the question on which basis you think funding is undesirable requires more than just the self-righteous observation that the doctrine of faith in Saudi Arabia is at odds with the Dutch rule of law. It's gonna take more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u156	I have never seen a Dutch Prime Minister or a Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs, or Mr Asscher, or any other person who has had the guts to say to Saudi Arabia: it is over and it is done; you have been deliberately financing and feeding ideologically organisations in the Netherlands that undermine our freedom, our democracy and our rule of law and that set our citizens against our society for decades. A Dutch minister has never spoken out against Saudi Arabia. Why not? What are the Prime Minister and this Minister afraid of? For the oil? I don't know. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u157	I'm not afraid of anything. In fact, we have just indicated that this was not Saudi Arabia but Qatar, also a country with properties that I do not think belong to the Benelux category, that we did not value funding that would lead to the purchase of a school building in Rotterdam. That didn't happen either. That is also better, because we had little confidence, also because of the secretive way of purchasing and the false pretences, that that money would be used in a good way. So we won't hesitate to let you know what we think of something. As far as I am concerned, this has nothing to do with Saudi Arabia exporting oil at the same time. I don't have a message about that at all. We have the task of defending the Dutch interest. That is what we are doing, but it is still the case that when we say that funding for organisations of this kind must be stopped, we also have an expensive duty to define which organisations and what funding is involved. For this, the rule of law really means that there is more to it than just 'er hat ein Gaunergesicht und das genügt' or 'I don't like it and I don't trust those people'. No, you're gonna have to prove on a legal basis that something's really going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u158	I'm going back to the list of salafistic organizations. That is indeed the implementation of the Roemer/Zijlstra motion. It is not clear to me whether that list is based on literature or also on the findings of the services. How did you get that list? The WODC is now making an analysis of this, but I hope that the cabinet will come up with its own reaction at some point. When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u159	It's not from classified information. The WODC has indicated that the open source research has done to arrive at this analysis and this list and that it is an intermediate product, but the Minister for Security and Justice has taken the view that this seems right to me to share what is already there with the Chamber before this debate. It is true that the Chamber has been waiting a long time for the Roemer/Zijlstra motion to be implemented. The final report is expected later this summer and will then have to be provided with a cabinet response. When exactly it comes, I dare not predict here, but let's hope that will be soon. The Labour Party asked whether there was also persecution of Salafists or Salafism. In some cases, yes. This is about distinguishing between cases where dialogue is necessary to make it clear that you have concerns, cases where there is real confrontation or disruption and cases where there is criminal action. As the Minister for Security and Justice said, there will be no hesitation in prosecuting. I think the question about the demonstration has already been answered. I already mentioned the letter on undesirable financing; I think that was sufficient on that point. Mr Krol asked if the counterpropaganda, the countersound, was successful. It is important to first note that the whole jihadist philosophy directly runs counter to the core values that we have here and celebrate and on which we have built this country. A counter-sound is therefore needed, not only from the government but also from communities themselves, in which reply is given. Instead of saying something back to the government, there must be more voices, so that it becomes clear in the free market place of the debate that the claims based on which one builds hatred against free society are literally worthless. You can't just send from the government to do that. A number of initiatives have been taken in this area which also facilitate and support people or organisations with credibility to develop counter-noise. In 2017, at the beginning of this year, a fund was set up to make this possible. That belongs to the Prince Bernhard Cultuurfonds. How successful that is, I dare not say now. The preventive approach is evaluated, but you cannot always indicate in advance how successful it is. We know from contacts with allies, such as France, England and so on, that it is necessary to stimulate the counter-noise. That's part of the approach. I find it difficult to tell what the effect is. I do believe in it. However, there will not only have to be a public-supported counter-noise. This must come mainly from powerful Dutchmen themselves who open their mouths and offer a counter-sound. Fortunately, that already happens a lot. In doing so, they show an alternative perspective to young people who sometimes seem to be prone to extremist thinking. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u160	Then we'll go to the second term, if that's what we need. That's the case. I give the floor to Mr Wilders. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u161	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I found the performance of the Prime Minister embarrassing and a Prime Minister unworthy. Muslims are double victims: our prime minister lives in a parallel world, in his own reality. We've got a hit after the attack. They are usually committed by Islamic terrorists. And what does our Prime Minister emphasize? He emphasizes that the Muslims are the victims. He doesn't take a word in the mouth about the fact that they are often also not always the culprit. This is a sad show. The Netherlands is badly off with such a prime minister. I hope he will not remain so, but we will see that in the coming months. What we all have to do, and for that we have been chosen, is to protect our people. We must protect our people from Islamic terrorism. That's what we're here for. That's the only goal. We'll have to do anything for that. Again, I will be brief, but I would like to give one more example. A terrorist has been apprehended at the Rotterdam marathon. We were able to see all this two weeks ago or even last week. He's an alleged IS warrior, a man who had a restraining order. People were afraid he was gonna make an attack. Of course, he didn't follow that ban, because terrorists don't. He had already joined IS in 2014. And that guy's just out there. That guy's just out there. He's being arrested and the judge is releasing him. He's someone on a list of ISIS. How crazy do you have to be? I'm gonna stop this. I hope that my proposal for a law, which concerns my colleagues De Graaf, Fritsma and myself, will be dealt with seriously, because I am only a modest third signatory, and I am reaching the finish line. That's the most important thing. The Netherlands can use this with a different Prime Minister than this Prime Minister, because the Netherlands deserves a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u162	Could it simply be that we have relatively good safety in this country, because the security services are just doing their job well and because we have sufficient instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u163	We have it well in that country, certainly, and we must keep it that way. If you see what is happening in the countries around us and what is on the website of the AIVD, namely that we now have thousands of sympathizers in the Netherlands and hundreds of jihadists in the Netherlands, that was not so much a few years ago, I think it is a matter of time before something happens here too. Apart from de-islamizing everything, that's the introduction of administrative detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u164	Briefly, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u165	Mr Wilders does not answer my question. My question was whether we have it relatively well. That's what he just agreed. Is that simply because the security services are doing their job well, because we are working together here and because we have sufficient instruments? Can Mr Wilders answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u166	No, it's not. We have far too much Islam in the Netherlands. We will therefore have to de-islamize first and foremost. That's what the Netherlands needs. We also have far too few instruments. The proposal of administrative detention is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u167	Mr Azarkan, this is the second term. I'm afraid we're repeating ourselves, so this will be your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u168	Could it also be that a lot of those Muslims, if not almost all Muslims, are just hard-working citizens who are also trying to contribute, as the Prime Minister said, and that you are going to see them as such and also see them as an ally rather than an enemy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u169	No, of course there are a lot of Muslims who work hard and do nothing, but unfortunately I mentioned the figures and I'm not going to repeat them all. 80% of young Turks think that violence against non-Muslims is justified, and 11%, more than 100,000 Muslims, think violence is necessary. So the less Islam, the better for the Netherlands. Let that be the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u170	Mr Azarkan, this is going to be a repeat of moves. We have already had this debate and you will have a second deadline in a moment, in which you can make your point. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u171	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the cabinet for the first-term replies. We are very curious whether a legislative proposal will eventually come to the Chamber to criminalise the stay on terrorist territory because it may provide a basis for bringing people into detention and then conducting further investigation. It can be an instrument to keep people better and forced into view. We will often talk about all kinds of deradicalisation programmes that we want to feel more and more about. What I am wholly dissatisfied with is the response of the Minister of Security and Justice to the Turkish brawling squads. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator (NCTV) in the Threat Picture of Terrorism 45 indicates that Turkish paramilitary teams are active in Europe;]] [[noting that at least one of these brawling teams has set up a Dutch department;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the nature and extent of this Dutch department of a Turkish paramilitary squad and calls on the Cabinet to do everything in its power to combat this unacceptable development in the Netherlands, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u172	I thought the minister played it off a bit as "there's a fight team and we're doing what can be done criminally," but if there's a concrete fight team in the Netherlands, I think that's a bit too laconic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u173	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. I was a little disappointed by the reaction of the Minister for Security and Justice to the example I mentioned of the Hague Council Member. He said it's up to the council. About the demonstration on the Square with the aim of destroying the State of Israel, he says: report it. I just took a look at the reporter Ernst Lissauer made about that demonstration and then the chills run over your back. However, the same minister states in his letter that a counter-sound should be facilitated. I heard his colleague from Social Affairs about it and the Deputy Prime Minister was a lot brighter in it. I would like to ask whether that counter-sound can be heard from him too. I would like to hear him say that in second term. In order to be able to end in a positive way, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[there have been horrible attacks in the countries around us;]] [[there has been a threat level of 4 on a scale of 5 in the Netherlands for more than four years;]] [[there is a tendency among the population about the level of threat;]] [[the security services have targeted potential terrorists and terrorist networks;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the threat level can be reduced to an acceptable level as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u174	Mr. Chairman. I will begin by thanking the rulers for the answers. I note that, as far as DENK is concerned, we have sufficient instruments to tackle jihadist violence. I think it's wise that we evaluate. I also support the Social Affairs Minister's call for permanent talks with the communities to organise a strong reply there. I am less satisfied with answering my question about the security of mosques. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a terrorist act was committed in the Netherlands against a mosque in Enschede;]] [[noting that 300 of the 400 Dutch mosques had to deal with threats, intimidation and clapping;]] [[Whereas, for the security of synagogues, EUR 1.5 million has rightly been released by the Government;]] [[whereas security is a core task of the government and the freedom of religion in our country should be protected;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to facilitate municipalities in the security of mosques and to release sufficient funds for municipalities and mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-427]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u175	Mr. Chairman. The Minister was concerned that I was pursuing several goals with regard to the lists, with regard to World-Check. That is not the case. I am pursuing the same goal, but possibly by different means. The aim is not to undermine the legal position of people. This is possible because governments themselves make a list, but the Minister is not prepared to do so. It can also be because control is exercised, but the Minister is not prepared to do so either. The problem is, who checks that World-Check? The banks say that they are not a research institute and refer to the government. As a result, people like Bram van Ojik and the environmental activist Ofehe have to go to trial in America. That is, of course, quite absurd. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas financial service providers regularly use World-Check and therefore wrongly define thousands of clients as a potential terrorist risk;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have an important role to play in protecting its citizens from unjustified damage to their legal position;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the current application of World-Check by financial service providers for irregularities and to take action against undue exclusions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u176	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for their reply. I have two more points. The first is about screening the people who want to work in places in this country that we count on the vital infrastructure. I would like the Minister's review of the Vog legislation in the context of terrorism to include the question of whether it is better to focus on what vital providers need a Vog. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas vital providers themselves are responsible for their screening policies and need to understand potential threats and vulnerabilities to their vital processes;]] [[Whereas vital providers may use the behavior statement (vog) as a general screening agent;]] [[Whereas the sector itself now determines the purpose for which a new employee needs a dog;]] [[Whereas the Minister has undertaken to consider whether a longer period of time may be allowed to look back on terrorist offences;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the investigation of the time limit for looking back at a dog, whether the vital infrastructure can be better protected if it is determined centrally at which vital processes the animal should be part of the access policy of persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u177	I would also like to say something about radicalisation and its approach. The Minister for Social Affairs has also made it quite clear in this debate that a lot is happening. That is clear, but I want more clarity on the impact of all these measures at local level and on how the money is spent. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the terrorist threat in the Netherlands is increasingly based on radicalised persons who have not left the country but are located within their own national borders;]] [[Whereas it is therefore of the utmost importance to identify and address radicalisation at an early stage;]] [[noting that the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme includes many measures aimed at preventing and addressing radicalisation;]] [[considers that it is not sufficiently clear how these measures are implemented and taken up by the 11 municipalities at risk in the Netherlands and how the funds made available have been spent;]] [[calls on the Government, in the next Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, to make clear how the measures contained in the plan of approach to jihadism are applied in practice at local level and how the funds have been used for the local anti-terrorism approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u178	Mr. Chairman. Almost all motions relate to my area. Only Mrs Tellegen's last motion will reply to Mr Asscher. The motion in part No. Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Dam asked the government to inform the Chamber of the nature and extent of the Dutch department of a Turkish paramilitary squad, and called on the Cabinet to do everything in its power to combat this unacceptable development in the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber of Parliament about it. I consider this motion to support the policy. I would like to undertake to provide that information in the next threat picture. Mr Krol's motion for a resolution 426 calls on the government to consider whether the threat level can be reduced to an acceptable level as soon as possible. I hope Mr Krol will note with me, especially in view of his justified compliments to the services, that we are doing all we can to reduce the threat in the Netherlands. At the same time, the threat level actually reports the threat there is. The threat picture also points to new developments, for example the reason for Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion. I can't hurt reality by talking down the threat picture. That would even be harmful. We are fully committed to the fight against terrorism, but in this form I really must discourage the motion. Mr Azarkan's motion asks the government to take measures to facilitate municipalities in the security of mosques and to release sufficient funds for municipalities and mosques. I have already indicated that, in the event of a threat to mosques or other organisations, measures are being taken on the basis of the seriousness of the threat. I am not going to discuss in public what type of measures they are and exactly how much we spend on them. Since the motion can still be read as if the government had to make a pot of money available to municipalities for that security, I must, on balance, discourage the motion. Again, that does not mean that we would not take action if necessary on the basis of the threat level, because we do. The motion in part No. 428 by Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Verhoeven, the government requests the current application of World-Check by financial service providers to investigate irregularities and to take action against unjustified exclusions. I indicated in my first term that it is not on the government's way to re-check lists drawn up by private parties. Such a list may be drawn up in a free country. If people think that they are wrongly on it, they can approach the author and, if necessary, go to court. However, the government cannot check all the lists. I must therefore discourage this motion. The motion in part No. In Mrs Tellegen's report, 429 calls on the government to consider whether the vital infrastructure can be better protected if it is determined at the heart of the vital processes in which the vog should be part of the access policy of persons. In my first term, I have indicated that I will soon again remind the vital providers of the safety risks and the possibility of using a vog. In that letter, I will also emphasise to the providers the possibility of tightening up access policies if necessary and also my intention to introduce a reinforced vog regime for terrorist offences, which means a longer look-back period. In this way we give substance to the requested direction function. We will continue to do the same. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr Asscher will deal with Mrs Tellegen's last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u179	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u180	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tellegen's motion for a resolution 430 calls on the government to make it clear in the next threat picture how the measures are applied in practice at local level and how the funds have been used. I consider the motion to support our policy. It's a fine motion, and I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-23.u181	That concludes this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, both ministers, the MPs, their support, the messengers, the clerks and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
