ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. Dear Members, dear colleagues of Ivo and best family of Ivo, I hope you will be watching. Ivo loved music. From modern music and from classical music, but absolutely not from Bach. His love for music fits the way he was. Like some classic pieces, he was one of extremes. From a life in different chapters, with different pitches and speeds. In the run-up to today, Ivo's colleagues, MPs and former roommates will have thought a lot of about him. We know Ivo as the clerk of the I&M Committee, but certainly of all the times we met him outside the meeting rooms. You had a terrible laugh with Ivo. Until the tears ran you over the cheeks. Those were his lighter periods. The sparkling pieces, the high notes, the fast measures. That's how most of us got to know Ivo. He started as an assistant clerk at the Transport and Water State Commission in 2007. Soon it became clear that he was a clerk at heart. Never in the foreground or in the spotlight. Ivo made sure everything was arranged to the point. He set the bar high for himself. He was a perfectionist with a great sense of responsibility. He was involved and collegial, and attached great value to good cooperation with services like the BOR. Ivo always wanted to know exactly what was going on. It took him a long time to get things out of his hands. He learned to let go, partly at the insistence of his deputy griffin, but it happened regularly that he surprised his deputy by figuring things out or arranging for himself. And that didn't just concern procedures. Ivo could then be clerk, he liked to dive into the contents. Sometimes he dived a little too deep. For example, he found it difficult to keep notes short and concise. A good example is a so-called concise legislative report he once drafted on the mileage price law. If we had to give a definition of succinct, we would always think of one or two A4s. Ivo delivered a 32-page report. An annual highlight was the plenary debate on the I and M budgets. Ivo really made a party out of that. Armed with mints and glucose, he walked into the plenary room, sat there and said, "I am ready; let it come." And no matter how long it took, no matter how late it got, Ivo was there and he was always sharp. Especially when it came to what happened in the room; he kept an eye on everything. But the most beautiful moment, is the most beautiful memory that can actually not be otherwise for someone with such a great sense of decorum and protocol was that time Ivo clerk of the Commission was guided in and out. He was proud to be able to accompany the Queen in the Knight's Room and introduce his father to the royal family. They were highlights, but we already tasted that dark times had arrived. The lower, gloomy tones. That heaviness lasted. Ivo couldn't turn the road up again. He died on 17 May, only 41 years old. His death came to us all as a big blow. We miss him. Ivo Snape, that precise, dedicated and friendly man, who was so exact in appearance, and one of our best clerks. He leaves a great silence. We wish his family and friends much strength in this difficult time. I also see them all in the public gallery, and they are also behind me, and the sadness is great. We sympathize with them. I would now like to ask you to observe a moment of silence.
