ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I got the news that on the Rotterdam Zadkine, a rock, fraud with exams was committed. Unfortunately, cheating on exams is not new. There can be no fraud, and there must be consequences. Fortunately, action is being taken against students who cheat in this way. This time, however, it turned out that a group of teachers encouraged the students to cheat. That's a new low. Precisely teachers should set a good example. It should be the honor of a teacher to have students fraudulently pass their exams. All the way into the MBO, these teachers should be ashamed of themselves. In doing so, they actually give a blunt kick to all colleagues who do such good work to improve the appearance of the MBO. I heard the signs of fraud have been known for two years. Is that right? When did the school's correction mechanisms enter into force? What'd they get you? And when was the Minister of Education informed about this? Can the Secretary of State indicate how many students are involved and how they have been consciously involved in the fraud? What are the consequences for these students? Is this a distinction made between those who have deliberately been revisited in this way and those who have been affected by this? Can the Secretary of State give an insight into the possible legal steps that can be taken against the teachers involved, the aid fraudsters? These people shouldn't call themselves a teacher, should they? Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by pointing out to Mr Wiersma that this is a serious matter. The behaviour of teachers who provide students with answers from examinations is also unacceptable. They fail themselves, students, fellow teachers, and they generally give the Zadkine and the MBO a bad name. But it is also good to see that there are people working at the Zadkine who found it serious enough to pass the signals to their boss, the board of directors. It is also good to see that the Executive Board has taken immediate action. Mr Wiersma asked when the signals were known. As soon as they were known, Zadkine immediately took action to see what was going on. It is also good to see that there was immediate intervention when something turned out to be going on. The teachers, two in this case, and the team leader who were involved, have been directly turned off, the examinations that were in question have been declared invalid and new examinations have been scheduled in the meantime because a lot of students have also been involved who have suffered from this. By refusing exams they have to take the exam again. The preliminary study of the Zadkine shows that about 30 to 60 students are involved. This is a preliminary investigation. The Minister also attaches great importance to waiting for the final investigation. It would then be students who might have been involved in bad faith. We must now, above all, ensure that the bottom stone rises as quickly as possible and that the students who are not responsible for this can pass the test as soon as possible so that they can also go to the diploma. In any case, the Minister has indicated that he has sufficient confidence in the board of directors because of the good and effective way of acting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I share the Secretary of State's remark that it is good to see that direct action has been taken for all teachers of good will who every day do their stinking best to fill in the MBO as best they can and to hand over everything they have in them to their pupils. At the same time, I miss the answer to the question of the consequences for teachers. I would also like to know whether there are any signs that such fraud is more common. Can the Secretary of State explain this and also the current system of checks to detect fraud? Is it gonna be okay right now? The Secretary of State has already said a few things about the investigation that is going on. Is he prepared to share with the Chamber the report of the investigation currently being carried out by an external agency, if necessary confidentially? I think it helps to have everything on the table to prevent this happening in the future and at least to learn from it how to make education even better. Finally, the mess with attendance figures also came out this weekend. This would also be the case for training at the Zadkine; teachers who report an entire class as present while half of them are not there. How often does this happen? Are we sufficiently alert about this? Does the Secretary of State have any idea why teachers are doing this? If you're in the best interest of the MBO, then this shouldn't happen, should it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	I fully agree with Mr Wiersma that such incidents are very serious, especially if they are of such magnitude. It happens more often that there are incidents during an examination period; I know it myself up close in secondary education. This is, of course, another matter. That is why I am pleased that the school immediately intervened when those signals were clear. Mr Wiersma has asked what the consequences are for the teachers. These teachers have been suspended for the time being. This means that the school has to find out more about the case. I can imagine that in this case the school will also have legal consequences for this case. More generally, Mr Wiersma's question is whether this is the school's fault, whether this is an isolated incident and whether the procedures are in order. The Minister has recently discussed in detail with the Chamber the quality of examinations. A number of steps have been taken to improve quality and procedures to ensure this. For example, in the MBO a reinforcement of the examination committees is under way. For this purpose, a law will enter into force on 1 August 2017. Agreements have been made between the Ministry and all those involved, including the MBO Council, on improving the quality of exams in the MBO. It also explicitly agreed that the procedures for this type of examination should be more clearly defined. The monitoring of how the examinations are carried out has also been given a more prominent role in inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Mr Özdil has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	Of course, I agree with my colleague Wiersma and the Secretary of State that fraud is inadmissible, but please do not let us forget that by far the majority of MBO institutions and teachers are in integrity. They work hard every day and have to row with the belts they have. That's what my question is about. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at the possible structural causes as a result of this incident, with the ultimate result something criminal, but with perhaps other consequences within the framework of the law? I am referring, for example, to increased workload on teachers and educational agreements which undermine the legal status of students. In short, is the Secretary of State prepared to look at the structural causes behind this kind of excesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	We must learn from all these incidents. That's why it's important to wait and see what comes out of the investigation that Zadkine's running right now. Mr Wiersma asked if the Chamber could see that investigation. I will at least admit that after the investigation has been completed, the Minister will send another letter to the Chamber indicating exactly what has happened and what we can learn from it. Then let me give you one thing. I do not think that we should argue too much mitigating circumstances when it comes to deliberate fraud, such as increased workload, etc., etc., etc. What is happening here cannot and must not be done, and as far as I am concerned it must be done very hard. This also applies to deliberate and deliberate fraud. Behind fraud in keeping track of the absentee administration can be all kinds of causes. That too is a subject that plays at this school. That's what the municipality is involved in. For this too, fraud is simply out of control. We need to be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	I agree with the words of the Secretary of State that there are no circumstances that justify fraud. I have another question about not appearing in school illegally. The fraud with exams has been done by a rather large group of students who have been enrolled for a long time at the institution but who do not show up, something that should not. The Secretary of State has just given a letter to the Chamber. I would like to hear from him when the inspection, the institution, the municipality or the ministry knew that there would be students registered on a large scale who would not show up, because they will be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	That too is a point that the Zadkine Board, together with the municipality, which is responsible for maintaining compulsory education, is investigating. That's a little off the exams, although I understand that you're linking those two things to each other. In this case, too, a school is obliged to have a proper failure registration that should not be cheated on or cheated on. If that has been the case here, it is a serious matter. I can very well imagine that the board of directors is also acting hard against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	The fact that fraud is totally unacceptable is something that everyone really agrees on, but something interesting was said in the Zadkine's response, namely that teachers did this also to polish the statistics of their school. Then there will be a political dimension around the corner, because the last successive cabinets have more and more paid off on production, on as many and as quickly as possible students through training jackets. Can the cabinet exclude that this way of financing and encouraging education increases the risk of this type of fraud, without saying that the responsibility is not with the teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	I really want to stay away from any justification to make you guilty of this kind of fraud. We ask schools and institutions to bring students to the finish line in a good way, with good results as far as I am concerned. This is in the interests of our education and, more importantly, of individual students. If you want to achieve that as a school, you should not lower yourself to such methods, or individual teachers should not, but you should just make sure that the students receive good lessons, that they are present and that they receive the best education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	I call Mr Van Meenen. No, Mr Kwint, you cannot ask another question, Mr Van Raak has already been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's hard. Indeed, there is no justification for fraud, not even cabinet policy. This is a joke, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State rightly says that Zadkine's administration has done everything that can be expected to combat this fraud, etc. However, we are now involved in Question Time, as it seems, in the question of what the Hague should do. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that we will not get incident policy from the Ministry in response to this event? Maybe we'll get it from the Chamber, but I hope to be able to say something about it myself. At least don't let it happen from the Ministry. No new rules, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	You're not asking for new rules. I do not think you have heard me say in the last ten minutes that new rules should be introduced. However, I believe that such a case should be properly investigated and lessons learned. I think these are a lot of lessons that concern the school itself. However, we should not rule out in advance that there are lessons to be learned for the inspection and the ministry. I do know that rules can't always make things watertight in these cases. The procedures and the rules are clear, but it seems that individual teachers who have lapped their boots. Then there is only one thing that is possible and that is very hard to intervene. At least I'm glad to see it does Zadkine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	The systems won't be directly affected. It's not us either. The improvement in quality has certainly been started. What fascinates me so much in this story is that those teachers who would have committed exam fraud from their involved left-wing social heart, out of involvement with their students, to put them on the right track anyway. I find that very disturbing, because of course that happens a lot more. It lacks the staffing policy of these schools, the monoculture of all those schools and all those politically correct left-wing people. Shouldn't that be broken by now? Shouldn't that be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	What the motives of these teachers were, I don't really care that much. They did something that shouldn't be done, and then we have to intervene hard. I find the way in which Mr Bertema generalises all teachers in education, which is a bit of a turnaround. Other teachers have picked up these signals again and went to their chairman with them. The President, who is also part of the school, has not hesitated for a moment to intervene, nor has the teachers involved who have committed fraud immediately been inactive. According to this, it gives sufficient confidence, including to this Chamber, that decisive action will be taken when this kind of thing comes to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	Fortunately, not all teachers are the same. It is a very good thing that teachers have reported this to their management. Nevertheless, I insist that there is a culture of political correctness throughout the staff. This concerns a team leader and two teachers who have systematically done so. The investigation will show that they did this out of involvement. This must send out a disturbing signal, including for this Secretary of State. How he wants to handle it, I don't know, but I'd appreciate it if he took this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	With an investigation, we need to find out exactly what happened. We know that there is fraud, but the scale and such matters need to be further investigated. Then perhaps there will also be a review of the reasons why this has happened, without any justification. In addition to individual teachers who have crossed the line, is there anything in the culture that might have contributed to it? That can be the case in any organization. However, I would like to keep away from the image of a culture of cover in education and that abuses should not come to light or be covered with a blanket. Let me speak for secondary education; we have just finished an exam period and there are incidents there too, but when I see how secure schools deal with procedures, especially in the interests of their students because they see that they are otherwise dipping their students, then I think we are failing those schools by saying that it would not be all right.
