ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. A good inspection is the final piece of protection for our citizens, but it is also very important for businesses. We need to keep looking at how we can equip the inspection as well as possible so that she can do her job properly in the interests of all of us. We have discussed this in the AA and I am now tabling a few motions on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important to continue to work to reduce the risk of accidents in companies, e.g. companies working with dangerous substances;]] [[Whereas companies are entitled to high-quality inspections, with independent, maximum expertise and as integral a way as possible of looking at business processes;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to further strengthen the integrity of inspections at companies and whether the current inspection system or organisation may need to be adapted for this purpose, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas inspectors have been asked about their experience with the current inspection practice;]] [[Considering that, among other things, this investigation reveals concerns about the continuation of in-service budgets, the possibility of continuing unannounced inspections, the role of the mayor in a calamity and the level of substantive knowledge at the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[noting that the inspectors also propose the establishment of a safety ranking for companies;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a letter addressing the concerns of the inspectors on these issues and to inform the Court before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of important sustainable transitions such as the transition to a circular economy, there are huge opportunities for entrepreneurs, but at the same time there are risks;]] [[Whereas effective risk-driven monitoring of companies requires that inspection services such as the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT) are able to properly analyse the risks and to ensure sound knowledge development;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways to strengthen the analysis capacity of the Inspection Environment and Transport and to include this in the analysis to be received on the tension between budget and tasks at the ILT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-118]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-119]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	The next speaker was Mr Smaling, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I will talk mainly about asbestos. During the debate, my group was satisfied with the programmed approach developed by the Secretary of State, in conjunction with others in the country. The SP Group continues to have concerns, mainly concerning the relief of individuals who themselves have to remove the small roofs and their financing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the removal of asbestos roofs less than 35 m by individuals entails health risks due to lack of expertise;]] [[calls on the government to give explicit attention to the relief of individuals with asbestos roofs of less than 35 m in the national Programmatic Approach to asbestos roofs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	My next motion is about money. Then of course you should always be careful, but I think the motion is formulated so that it can be done. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that replacing asbestos roofs is an excessive financial burden for many owners;]] [[Considering that the subsidy scheme was increased in the interim in 2016 in order to meet demand;]] [[believes that it is necessary to ensure completion by 2024;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the budget of the asbestos restructuring scheme grows with demand so that all applications that meet the criteria can be met;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	One last point. We heard this week that insurance companies are concerned about the many fires at waste treatment and recycling companies. That was not discussed during the general consultation, so the Secretary of State may also respond by letter, but I do find it worrying. Does this kind of fire happen out of proportion to a lot? What are the risks to public health and to uninsurable businesses? Since it is a new question, I would like to leave it to the Secretary of State to assess whether she wishes to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have a question about the second motion, in which it concerns more money and making the budget grow. Does Mr Smaling intend to cover this and, if so, which?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am well aware that you cannot ask for money by means of a motion in mid-season, but last year, fortunately, the Secretary of State was able to implement, in part, a rejected amendment of mine by adding money to the 10 million that stood before it. If you are going to legally anchor that you want to get rid of it by 2024, then of course you also know how much money you will need for that. If you see that this subsidy scheme is quickly overdrawn, even if you increase the budget in the interim, then I think it is legitimate to ask if we can do something with it, without mentioning amounts immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Smaling knows that the budget is limited to 75 million for the whole period. It's going well and a little faster, so we've raised $10 million twice to $15 million. But does Mr Smaling also think that it should be more than the 75 million or does he say that this is the maximum at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	I notice a gap between what is necessary to be ready in 2024 and what we are going to legally anchor, so there must be butter with the fish............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't think the Secretary of State will deny that either. That's my point. You can make a law, but of course there has to be butter with the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. When people hear that there's asbestos on the roof of their apartment, it scares some people. One didn't know, the other took action. And action is also needed, because asbestos is and remains a bad thing. It used to be very useful. It isolates well and has more positive properties. No one wants asbestos in society anymore. We have to get rid of it. Screaming in a panic that we need to get rid of it quickly and at all costs is easier said than done. But that doesn't change the fact that you have to do something. The VVD wants to tackle and clean up asbestos roofs safely at a realistic pace. Asbestos on your roof is dangerous stuff. It can defend by weather influences and then fibers are released. That's harmful to health. Asbestos is not all highly toxic, but if it fights or breaks and you start sawing or drilling in it, you have to watch out. You shouldn't do that. In the presence of asbestos, we must act normally and not react overly, because that is of no use to anyone. Let us use common sense with a realistic approach. As of 2024 there will be a ban on asbestos roofs. By the way, this law still has to go through the Chamber. The restructuring exercise is large and the financial resources are limited. Mr Smaling already referred to it. With that in mind, the VVD wants to send in safe cleaning in an easy and fast way, which is innovative and therefore more affordable. The Secretary of State now has a plan of action. The VVD wants to monitor its progress and my question is: what do we agree on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. I was not at the general consultation, but I also studied the problem of asbestos roofs within my portfolio. I've been to work in Lelystad, where that really happens on a large scale in those cauliflower areas. I am also shocked how much the residents are struggling to solve this problem. We are pleased that the approach proposed by Mr Cegerek has been taken well, but we are really concerned about the people with a small wallet and its consequences for those who do have sufficient resources to be able to participate in a clean-up. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Environmental Management Act lays down a legislation aimed at the complete removal of asbestos roofs in the Netherlands by 2024;]] [[Whereas this requires a substantial investment for owners and residents which is only to a limited extent compensated by a subsidy;]] [[noting that there are neighbourhoods, including in the municipality of Lelystad, where virtually all houses have asbestos-containing roofs and facades and that in such cases renovation can only be dealt with jointly by owners-inhabitants per building block;]] [[noting that, in practice, not all residents are able to obtain the financing necessary for the rehabilitation, which threatens to make joint plans impossible;]] [[invites the Government, with the help of the parties and municipalities involved in the financing, to develop arrangements for owners and residents, taking into account their capacity, and to inform the Court thereof before 1 July 2017, as well as how the arrangements to be developed will be brought to the attention of the target group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	What does Mr De Vries mean by'support'? We're not gonna do income policy with people with asbestos roofs, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	I thought I made that clear. If someone living in a building block where only a solution is possible together with the neighbors cannot get the financing of the renovation of his roof, not only he but also all the other residents suffer from it. It's similar to the foundation repair. With foundation restoration, we encounter the same problem. Minister Blok has managed, among other things, to develop a fund with mortgage providers in order to allow the people who cannot get the funding to participate in a separate way. That is really in the interest of those people who are capital-intensive enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Clear. I understand that you are asking for a collective approach to reduce costs, but not for weird low-income situations, more subsidies and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	I'm also asking the Secretary of State to look at carrying capacity. I am referring above all to such examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. As the Chamber knows, the Department of Infrastructure and the Environment has a very active source policy to reduce asbestos fibres in the outdoors. This has been done before with the use of asbestos in roads, and now we are doing it by accelerating the phasing out of asbestos roofs. We have set up a subsidy scheme for this purpose and developed a programmed approach. We have taken this programmatic approach in consultation with many different parties, including the local authorities. There are several delegates working for us as ambassadors in their regions and in the country, as well as industry organisations, including LTO. We can see, of course, that the problem of these asbestos roofs is by far the greatest, particularly in the agricultural sector. We work with best practices and efficient practices. We are also investigating financing structures. I shall return to that in a moment, in response to the motions. I would like to say here that, of course, parties retain their own responsibility. We see that the subsidy scheme is a great success. In fact, we raised it a bit last year when it was possible to do so financially. At the same time, there is a certain amount of money for this and so I have not, as I say to Mr Smaling, found any more money for that. That's the limit. The total task is incredibly great. It will never be solved with subsidies alone. There is also a responsibility for individuals themselves. We can see that the roofs we are talking about are usually already written off in practice and should therefore be replaced anyway, especially if there is such a dangerous thing in Mr Dijkstra's words. I'm going into the motions now. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling ask me to investigate how the integrity of inspections can be further strengthened and whether the current inspection system needs to be adapted. Recently, Minister Blok has already responded to proposals in this spirit. He has indicated that the government has a key role to play in ensuring safety and that we should work as comprehensively as possible. However, there will be no major national inspection. In fact, we have already completed this discussion with the legislation for the Brzo facilities. It is important that the noses, in accordance with the spirit of the motion, should come in the same direction. That is exactly what we are in favour of. Now to look again at the current inspection system while we have just completed some of the legislation, I do not think it is wise. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Mrs Van Veldhoven has tabled a second motion on item No. 119 in which it asks the government to look at the concerns previously raised by inspectors on various points and to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer. We did indeed send an inquiry into the findings of inspectors before the summer of last year. As Mrs van Veldhoven asks, it seems to me to be a good idea at the same time as the State of Security, which is also coming before the summer. to indicate what we've done. In the meantime, we didn't sit still. Then the Chamber can also get an idea of what has emerged from the comments from the field and how that has been taken up. If I make the motion to part No. I would like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. I think that's fine in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	I see the petitioner nodding. So you can assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	Ms Van Veldhoven asked to identify the analytical capacity of the ILT and to include this in the analysis of the tension between budget and tasks at the ILT. I consider the motion in part No. 120 in support of policy. This is exactly what we need to do. We will have to make choices within the inspection and determine where the focus is. We note that this analytical capacity is very important for risk-driven supervision in particular, where the problems are. Since the motion is policy support, I can accept it if the Chamber has no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'm just going to look at the members, see if there's any objection to taking over. I see no one is objecting to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 121 by Mr Smaling on the relief of private individuals. Mr Albert de Vries has also tabled a motion on this subject. Mr Smaling's motion focuses specifically on those individuals who have asbestos roofs less than 35 m. There is, of course, room for manoeuvre, which we have made explicit in the regulations, in order to be able, for example, to dispose of asbestos. Mr Smaling says that it is a different approach to the larger projects, but that it should be looked at specifically. I consider this motion to support policy. It is very important that we focus communication towards individuals on how to proceed carefully and what is needed. We can support people in that. This is also part of the programme that we are now in favour of, particularly with regard to communication. Here too, if the Chamber has no objection to it, I can accept this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'll take a look at the members. Mrs Van Veldhoven has something to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm very glad the Secretary of State wants to take over the motion. I have another question about scope. It is now explicitly limited to asbestos roofs, but it is also possible that you have a small amount of asbestos in your home. It can also be harmful in a form other than a roof if removed in a careless manner. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say that care is about asbestos less than 35 m2 without having to be in the form of a roof because otherwise this care is not valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	What you're asking me now is difficult. I'm making legislation that's really focused on rooftops. I can't change the definition now, as it were, halfway through the ride. If private individuals have small amounts of asbestos in their homes, it is very important that we communicate very well with them: how do you do that, how can you safely remove asbestos, for example? This motion is about that. However, in the communication we are developing towards private individuals who intend to do something about small amounts of asbestos in their homes, I can say that it is not always about roofs. But I have to be very precise about this: the whole legislation is aimed at rooftops. If we are allowed to make that distinction, it goes well in communication. Then we'll just take the other group along with us, but in the rules it's a bit different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	That's very clear. I see this as a commitment from the Secretary of State to include asbestos, not rooftops, in communications in small quantities among private individuals, in addition to the legislative process on rooftops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	Sure, in other parts of the house, too, because that's what I think you meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	Then it's obvious. I shall look at the Members and see that there is no objection to taking over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 122. The tricky thing is that Mr.Smaling, with his more than usual charm, explains very well that he does not intend to issue an uncovered cheque here, but that it is secretly one. He asked for the budgets to grow with the need to subsidise. As I explained at the beginning of my contribution, the problem is that the costs associated with cleaning up asbestos roofs are far greater than the amount that you could ever organise for subsidies. So if I take the motion to the letter, I can't figure it out. So I must discourage this motion. If there is a transfer and we find opportunities to go further, for example, to people who have applied, we will of course see if we can raise the ceiling of the subsidy scheme for this year. We did that last year, and I do not rule out the possibility of that happening again, should there be room for that. So I'm willing to do that, if I can. However, I cannot accept this motion in this way, because that is just a billion-dollar cheque if you are not careful. The motion seems quite innocent. The gentleman also looks very nicely at it. But there's no way she's innocent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	Who said that again: "You look so sweet"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u29	Yeah, that didn't work out so well. I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u30	The intention of the motion is actually what the Secretary of State says in the last part of her speech. I am concerned that if you notice, in the middle of a year, that the subsidy scheme is being heavily overwritten, you are looking at whether you can increase the amount in the budget for the following year. That's actually what the Secretary of State did last year. The aim is to assess annually whether demand is much higher than what we can offer. If so, should we not make room for this in the budget for the following year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yeah, but I don't need a motion for that. You can also bring up some of the money that is reserved for later, because the demand is there now, and perhaps less later. That can be done, and there are opportunities for that. But I also say that this is something other than what is literally stated in Mr Smaling's motion. I think that this discussion will only take place in the autumn if we also know more about the exact number of applications. Then you have to make such a decision, not now. Moreover, that is really something other than the automatic growth of the money for a subsidy scheme with the applications. After all, there may also be a time when there is simply not enough resources available to meet all these applications for subsidies. Then not everyone gets their share: that's how it always happens and that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Smaling will respond to this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u33	I understand what the Secretary of State says. However, she is going to legally anchor this. On the one hand, this must be ready by 2024, and on the other hand, you can see the amounts involved. With those amounts, we're not gonna make it. Let me compare it with the way in which sometimes money from the future is raked into the present by the Ministry in the Infrastructure Fund or the Delta Fund in order to finance things. There's quite a gap in that. That is why I think this is an 'inviting' motion, which gives asbestos clean-up the importance it deserves. I'm not saying the Secretary of State says she doesn't see the importance of it, but... well, I think she understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u34	I understand what Mr Smaling means. But it is also true that, from the outset, the costs of clean-up have not been borne exclusively by the government. That has never been the case, and we must also be clear about that. In fact, there's an incentive subsidy. However, that is really something other than taking over financial responsibility. We'll see what we can do. How can you actually create constructions that make it as easy as possible? I shall now turn to Mr Albert de Vries' motion for a resolution. We are talking to LTO, for example, about the possibilities that exist to put this in order for farmers. You can also think about combinations with, for example, sustainability of roofs. You can install large-scale solar panels, so you can then make sure that you can also use some of the resources elsewhere to achieve that renovation. I am also prepared to take that point of those individuals mentioned in the motion for a resolution on item No. Mr De Vries (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Vries on his excellent report. How can we make arrangements to make it easier for residents across a block, with some having the means to do it and others getting into trouble a little faster? I want to take a look at all of that. But that is something other than that we take full responsibility for financial matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u35	I note that the motion in part No. 122 is not recommended. I'm gonna take a look at the clock, too. We're already behind and we're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u36	I want the motion in part no. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u37	But Mr De Vries still has a question about that. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u38	I have a comment to make on Mr Smaling's interruption. My proposal states that not only should the subsidy scheme be used, but that other relevant financiers, such as mortgage providers, should also be able to contribute. That's what happened with the foundation repair. So it could be a lever to increase resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u39	Yeah, and that's exactly what it's about. You have to see how all those involved, whether it be the companies or the mortgage providers, but I am also thinking of housing corporations and other parties, can put the responsibility together and then think together about what we can do with the whole arrangement of subsidy schemes that are available from the Empire, for example, for the sustainability of housing. What can we do with the subsidy scheme to remove asbestos roofs? What can we do with smart financing structures, which, as it were, make it easier to solve the problem with each other? That's how I'd like to get to work. That is why I see the motion in part No. 123 in support of policy and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. I had two more questions and I'd be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u40	Very briefly, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr De Vries' motion is actually much better than my motion in part No. 122. I am therefore withdrawing it and I am happy to go along with Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u42	That's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u43	Since the Smaling motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Smaling had another question about the burning of waste in plants and the problems involved every year. The relatively large number of fires in waste processors is indeed an undesirable situation. It is important to note that the responsibility for reducing this type of fire lies with the companies. They can really do much more to professionalise fire prevention. I call it separate storage of materials. But we also need to be active in enforcement, especially when we find that companies themselves are not taking action. To be honest, I think it might be a good idea, before the summer, if we send the State of Security to the Chamber, to see if we can still pay attention to this point, either in the state or in a separate letter. Then, last but not least, Mr Dijkstra. He said that the approach to asbestos roofs should be careful and cost-effective, with the great cooperation of interested parties. How do we proceed in that process? What is the moment when the Chamber hears more? Apart from the legislative process, which has already been reported to the Chamber in the very near future, I propose that I report to the Chamber before the summer on the progress of both the reorganisation and the progress of subsidies and the actions of the programmed approach. So the Chamber gets some sort of progress letter. It can then be discussed in the Chamber. Then we can see where we stand at that moment in the year. If the Chamber thinks that's a good idea, I'd like to send it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u45	Good idea. I think it's very important to keep a finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u46	Agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-4.u47	The votes on this matter will be on Tuesday.
