ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, and the Swedish Ambassador, Mr Holmström. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. On Friday, April 7th, we were shocked again by a terrorist attack. In the centre of Stockholm a truck drove into a group of people. A busy shopping street, but suddenly it became dead quiet. The attack demanded the lives of four people: a Brit, a Belgian and two Sweden, including an 11-year-old girl. We know Sweden as a country with a rich democratic history. A country much like ours: emancipated and solidarity. A country where fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression and free speech are firmly enshrined in the law. It is precisely these values that are ultimately stronger, that always win violence. In Stockholm, people gathered massively to commemorate the victims, to defend the freedoms on which their country was built. It is not the first time this year that we have considered an attack. Hardly two weeks ago, there was the attack in London. On April 3, a bomb exploded on the subway in Saint Petersburg. Fourteen people were killed: innocent people, who were in the wrong place at the wrong time. And the day before yesterday, on April 9th, there was the targeted attack against two churches in Egypt. In addition, 44 people were killed. Different countries, the same violence and the same mourning. And also in Saint Petersburg, in Alexandria and in Tanta life goes on. Shops open, subways run, people run errands. The will to live wins over fear of violence. Terrorism can and will never bring us down. The attacks may frighten us, but they won't bring us to a standstill. We are not restricted in our way of life, of living together. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to express my condolences to the Swedish Parliament. In my mind, we're with them. I hope that Sweden will find the strength to look for what binds them, that they will stick to that rich democratic history of freedom, equality and mutual commitment. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Yesterday, a touching commemoration of last Friday's attack took place in Stockholm. My colleague, Stefan Löfven, spoke words that impressed me. He said, "Our unity will always be stronger than the forces that want to tear us apart. Our social system will never be suppressed. Our democracy will prevail over fundamentalism." To the next of kin in Sweden, Great Britain and Belgium he said: you are not alone. I repeat that today in the direction of the next of kin, but certainly in the direction of all Sweden: you are not alone, the Netherlands is next to you. That is also what I referred to my colleague on Friday. The sirens that sounded in Stockholm, we also heard recently in London, in Saint Petersburg and in Tanta and Alexandria, Egypt. It is the sound of extremism, of brutal violence and of intense grief for innocent victims; for the umpteenth time. I think we're all experiencing the same thing today. Another cowardly attack. Another attack on our way of life. Once again, we feel the need to speak out against terror, for humanity and for democratic values. And we will continue to do so. Our thoughts are with the victims and the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'm suspending the meeting for a few moments so that you can convey your condolences to the ambassador.
