ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	I am releasing the number of interruptions, because it is, of course, quite a sensitive subject. I would like to encourage some self-limitation from time to time. Furthermore, the interruptions go in two instances. Fortunately, the Minister is still present, because that means that I can now be the first to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again talking about a change in the law of integration, a law that is there because we want people to speak the language and get to know the Dutch customs and values. It is a law, in short, to make it possible to live together. Unfortunately, everyone who follows this issue also knows that this issue is constantly being abused for political gain. That's too bad. That is a pity because from the left to the right all parties claim to stand for integration and live together. We know that one of the keys to living together is language and integration education, and it is not appropriate that we politicise these laws and these kinds of issues unnecessarily every time. That's why we're moving groups further apart. My group takes this issue very seriously, even in recent years. Unfortunately, I have to note that we constantly receive complaints from language teachers who ring the bell, because citizens and newcomers, people who have just come to the Netherlands on the run for war or for family reunification, are lost in a forest of rules. We're getting complaints about private desks. We treat integration education as an orphan and therefore not as an education. It has been privatised and, as a result, we see all kinds of private desks shooting out of the ground like mushrooms. These desks lure people with expensive gadgets, while they offer education that we have no control over at all. That's crazy. That's not right! We have all seen how well-known Dutch people make the exam questions for the camera. They also do not always understand what questions serve to get to know Dutch values. Exams of which it is not clear whether they measure what to measure. Exams in which questions are on language levels that do not correspond at all to the level of the student or the student. Citizens who have to apply digitally, yet have no idea what this means, and who are sometimes even illiterate. Citizens who needlessly long and therefore needlessly expensive in the assistance are due to the waiting lists at DUO. My question then is to what extent this minister has really listened to the teachers in recent years. To what extent has this minister really listened to the municipalities and the students in recent years? Who had listened, had taken other actions! Unfortunately, the Minister has stuck to a neoliberal law that allows all sorts of shady agencies to enrich themselves to newcomers, who first have to pay thousands of euros in debt and then get a partial remission if they can find their way. How crazy and how complicated can you make it? Since the amendment of the law in 2013, the number of people taking exams has fallen from 25,000 to 5,000, while we know that hundreds of thousands of people, including Dutch, need good language and integration education. There is a shortage of teachers and there is a deterioration in quality. All this means that we do not have any insight into the quality and what people learn. For a subject that we all say is important, that the key to living together is and with which we can fight segregation, the opposite is done. We made the call in 2013, in 2014, in 2015 and in 2016, year in, year out, but the minister did not give home. Now there is also the Court of Auditors' report which shows that the law does not work in its present form. Unfortunately, these unheard-of results, namely that 33% of the participants succeed within the stated three-year period of integration, are no surprise. The VVD is proud, because it can then point to the newcomers instead of partly applying self-reflection and note that this law may not work very well at all. What solution does the Minister see? The social guidance he proposes with this legislative amendment is good and necessary, but it is already practice. Municipalities and Refugee Work do that. A declaration of participation on penalty of a fine? Does the Minister really think that this will contribute to integration, especially if the basis is not in order and people often don't even know what they are drawing? Municipalities, students and teachers all confirm the importance of language and integration. However, we have seen in recent years that this does not work. Then why is the Minister holding on to it or has he held on to it, because we only have a few months to go until there is a new minister on a right-wing law that puts the political muscle agenda first, not education? I would like today to offer the Minister a number of alternatives in addition to and to change what the Minister himself proposes. The first thing that needs to be done and where many people, at least the parties, organisations and municipalities working on the practice, agree, is that the direction has to go back to the municipalities in order to prevent even more damage. The Education Inspectorate, which has an understanding of education, must monitor integration education. To this end, together with Mr Voortman van GroenLinks and Mr Van Meenen of D66, we have tabled an amendment which regulates monitoring and quality requirements from the education inspection. That's missing right now, which means we don't know anything and burgers sometimes get cheated. I would like to go even further with my party, because I want a public system, but this is a necessary step to at least move forward in the near future and to prevent even fewer students from succeeding. The direction of the municipalities is also needed. They do not now have the means and the information to provide the necessary guidance. Municipalities can then simply buy lessons again and the citizen does not need to go through unnecessary bureaucracy, Dutch bureaucracy. That's two birds with one stone. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Let me say again that we look forward to the review of the law. It is really important that fundamental changes are made and that language and integration education be treated as education again. I come to the participation statement. Of course, you need to talk about important values. Our laws and regulations are based on them. Everyone, every Dutchman and newcomer, has to stick to it. However, I wonder how people should make their own under duress. There's an interesting report on the pilots that took place. They were limited, but interesting. This shows that 17% of the signatories, in the municipalities which took part in the trial, only do so because the municipality had asked them to do so. A majority of participants appeared to understand the substance only limited. Maybe that's not so weird when you're still at the beginning of your integration. New fines are linked to that participation declaration. I do not think it is fair, and it is unfair, to include new penalties and additional requirements in a system that is already out of line with many citizens. For this to happen, it really needs to be improved and that basis has to be put in place. Moreover, integration is already a duty. If you don't meet that, you can already be fined. You can't do that just once, you can do that several times. The point, in my view, is that the Minister does not really deserve enforcement, because he does not know the results. After all, we outsourced that system. Family migrants, who have already taken part in courses abroad in Knowledge of Dutch society, are also asked again to deepen themselves through that participation statement. I don't think this is very trusting. Does this mean, however, that the integration abroad does not work or does not work sufficiently? Dutch people with a partner abroad also have to pay those costs themselves. The status holders group will be reimbursed through the municipality. But we impose fines and penalties in this country when people break laws, don't we? We're not asking for money for education, are we? Certainly we don't do that when people do their best but they just don't have the level to make it. Is the Minister prepared to finance the cost of the declaration for all citizens? I would also like to ask that in the interests of equal treatment. The Statement of Participation gives newcomers extra attention. That's what the pilots are showing. Newcomers therefore feel more welcome and more motivated to start their integration. Of course, that is what the SP supports, and that is what is needed. Living together is done by paying attention to each other and talking to each other. It appears that municipalities apply these mainly in the form of social guidance. But that can only happen if municipalities have that direction and that additional fine is removed. I have also tabled an amendment on this. I'm very curious if the Minister agrees with me. It also appears that these fines and sanctions lead to unnecessary stress on people who want to settle in. A new fine on top of that is therefore totally unnecessary. I'm gonna be on the re-entry period. It is now three years old and remains for three years, also with additional new requirements. As far as I am concerned, additional requirements include additional rights. In order to settle well, to find work and accommodation in a new country, space is also needed. I therefore propose that, under the current circumstances, the period of integration be extended by one year. After all, citizens must also have completed the declaration of participation within one year. In this way, we will not be faced with new and lower success rates. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. As a reminder, I would add that the integration requirements have been constantly increased in recent years, for example by adding the Guidance section to the Dutch labour market. We do not yet know the effects of this either. So you add something new again, without knowing what the previous additional requirements have added. I would like a response to that. Finally, I have one question for the Minister, and that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	Before you proceed, Mr Azmani has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	I note that there is inconsistency in Mrs Karabulut's speech. She says that we have not yet been able to measure the effects of such an additional requirement, for example occupational orientation. But at the same time she says that the whole system is not good and that we have to move towards a completely different system, namely the government. On the one hand, she says we don't know all the effects of this law yet. That position is very plausible, especially when you read the report of the Court of Auditors. But on the other hand, she makes a whole plea in which she says: it's nothing, it's nothing, it's never going to work, and everything has to go back to the government. We have read in the report of the Court of Auditors that the integration examination was passed, but that the citizen then came to the bank with a benefit. Mrs. Karabulut shouldn't want that, should she? Or does she want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr Azmani, I understand that you are excited; you may. But there is no inconsistency. The facts speak for themselves. Only 33% of people succeed. There are all kinds of shitheads on the market. Because we don't manage supervision ourselves, we don't know what people learn. It is irresponsible and unreasonable for the VVD to point unilaterally at the citizen every time. She suggests that people wouldn't want anything at all. It is voting in favour of this and putting new and more stringent requirements on top of it. That doesn't make any sense. That may be politically nice, because with the elections coming up, you may say to Wakker Netherlands again that all citizens do not want to and that therefore even stricter demands need to be made, but that does not do well for living together and that does not improve integration education. I would indeed like a public system. Why should we all invest in education so that people, perhaps friends of the VVD, can earn money from it? We want people to learn the language. I want this audience taken care of. But for now, I propose a number of concrete improvements. You shouldn't ask the unreasonable. If you know that integration education is not working properly and that only 33% succeeds, then you should not impose new sanctions, even if you show some muscle. It doesn't work that way, Mr Azmani. Maybe in the imagery, but not in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	You'll be speaking through the chairman from now on. Mr Azmani may do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mrs Karabulut wants another system debate and a system change. I understand very well that the Socialist Party thinks the government can take care of this. We've had that system in the past. The burglar ended up with a benefit on the couch. It's about self-reliance. If Mrs Karabulut reads the reports thoroughly, she actually knows this, because she reads the reports thoroughly, she also knows that the report of the General Court states that you cannot yet establish a trend on the basis of the current, new integration law. Mrs Karabulut also knows that it is not in the interests of the citizen or the newcomer to have another set of discussions or to make major changes. This has also been advised by the Council of State in the implementation of the 2013 bill we are now discussing. Mrs Karabulut is well aware that a negative incentive for people is the motivation to burgeon. We have a research report on this and we also discussed it during the AO. When people then settle in, they experience a positive incentive during the integration process and they think: gosh, this offers me perspective and future. If you get those facts straight, what Mrs Karabulut is saying here is just bullshit, isn't it? It's at the expense of the burger. It seems very well meant: the government will help you. However, we have seen the consequences in the past. In this country, you have to be self-reliant. We need to teach newcomers as soon as possible to be self-reliant, because that is the only way people can actually participate fully in society. I think that is what Mrs Karabulut wants, just as I want, but sometimes I have my doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	I didn't really hear a question, but let me answer it out of courtesy. It is not our choice to say that language and integration are important and then leave it to the market, with which public money ends up in private pockets. I know this is the VVD line. However, it is not our responsibility and not our policy. Mr Azmani and his VVD have been responsible for combating unemployment for the past four years. It is his responsibility that so many more people with benefits are unemployed at home. That's what the VVD is responsible for. Privatising public money, if things go wrong save the banks and the people can solve it all, that is not society, and that is not how we deal with integration and language. We take it seriously. If I were in charge, I would look very closely at it, in consultation with everyone who knows it. I do not think I have the truth, but I am not proposing a fundamental change at the moment, but improvements. Perhaps it is an idea, Mr Azmani, to take a serious look at it and listen to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	I have one final question for the Minister, which concerns the resources for social support. Are these funds earmarked or can municipalities spend them on other matters as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	I'd still like to make an interruption. Colleague Karabulut began to be hopeful. I understood from her introduction that she said: let us not politicise the issue of integration into society, because that polarizes. I understood from that that she actually says: when it comes to integration, let us put the citizen at the centre and organize what is needed around the citizen. Next, I hear Mr Karabulut say that there is nothing wrong with what this minister is doing or that this minister has done nothing at all. However, the Minister has started with a law that was completely undressed. Additional resources have then been provided for guidance. We're out of waiting lists. A lot of the burglars are just in class. Yes, that is partly private, but most private language providers are doing well. There are bunhas, indeed, but Mrs Karabulut is all in one place. In doing so, she is destroying her introduction. I therefore ask her whether she is going to support this improvement and to support the Minister step by step improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	If Mr Marcouch has listened carefully, and I think he has, then a number of proposals could have been heard. My criticism, indeed, is that the PVV law has been adopted by the Minister and that we have been getting signals for years and are still getting them. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report that it is not working and that it is at the expense of citizens and living together. We don't know if people are learning the language. The number of participants is plummeting. The number of people taking exams is falling. We see bunnies in the market. Then Mr Marcouch should not blame me for having drawn attention to this in recent years, year after year, and for having alternatives. I believe that these alternatives are also included in the PvdA's election programme. Did the minister do things? Yes, of course. He didn't just sit quietly in that chair for four years. It's just a question of whether he did the right thing. In my view, that is not the case. Then I come to the question of whether I can support this law. I do not think it is fair to say, if you know that the quality of integration education is inadequate and if you know that citizens and teachers are doing their best, that we are going to demand even more with even more possibilities for penance in the law. I don't think that's fair. I propose that we improve the base and remove the additional sanctions. Then I'm interested in the Minister's initiatives. However, I am not in favour of municipalities having to solve it without being directed and of imposing further fines, perhaps to please the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	I find this rather difficult to follow. The minister is going to anchor in the law that the citizen is not only standing for it, but that he is also being accompanied. That guidance costs money. I share Mrs Karabulut's view that quality can be improved. That is what the Court of Auditors says in his report, and that is what the Minister says in response to that report. The Court of Auditors does not say that it is all wrong, but that a number of things need to be improved. We agree on that. Does Mrs Karabulut choose to put the citizen at the centre and serve better and to organise the integration, which is already underway? Or does Mrs Karabulut choose a new system change? Then we are all working on something other than trying to integrate these people into society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	The reference to a system change is clearly the coalition's frame to get this law through. I'm gonna say it one more time. Of course I'm putting the burger at the center. We've been doing that for years. However, these citizens say, together with municipalities: give us the direction and provide good lessons. That's all we're gonna do. Mr Marcouch, in view of your comments, I would expect support from the Labour Party. Maybe there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr Marcouch, a brief reaction, because the interruptions take about five minutes each.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	A brief conclusion. Of course, this is important, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	I believe that, but brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	Very briefly. I'm sorry about this. In fact, Mrs Karabulut says that it must be 100% as the SP wants it to be, otherwise it will be 0%. That is not what the citizens and society are waiting for. I therefore call on the Chamber to support this step-by-step approach. That is what this Minister is doing very wisely and wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	I understand that you are defending the Minister, but with that you are also defending new penalties for citizens and continuing the current situation, while we know that education is not in order. This is particularly painful, also in view of the PvdA's election programme. Sorry, I won't help you with that. I have a step-by-step approach, as you call it, and I have proposals. I look forward to your response in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. One step at a time. It seems as if more blockades are being thrown in the way of the newcomer step by step, with the cooperation of the Labour Party. But that's a little out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	You're teasing, so Mr. Marcouch may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	This isn't teasing. Whoever's asking proves it. I am therefore curious about the blockades which Mr Van Meenen sees being created by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Here's another one. There will be a participation statement; that is what we are talking about today. If you don't drop it, you're gonna get a fine. That's a statement you have to make at the beginning of the trajectory. I shall come back to that in detail in my text. That is the seventh step in obtaining Dutch citizenship, which has also become more difficult in recent years. The time after which you can obtain that is increasing. The conditionality of Dutch citizenship is also increasing more and more. There are more and more ideas, even today from the VVD, to bring that conditionality into it. If you take one step wrong, you will lose the Dutchmanship immediately. So, with the cooperation of the Labour Party, we are increasingly going to a country with first- and second-class Dutchmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	I am really curious about D66's contribution, but I note that you are asking something and that you cannot then support it. This statement is about additional resources, extra money, extra position for the municipalities and clarity for the citizen about what he has to meet. In other words, the Civilization Act gets a lot more meat on its bones and you say that's a blockage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	It is incomprehensible that Mr Marcouch can say this with dry eyes. This law is about two things. The extra resources are fine, very good. However, they have nothing to do with the other part of this law, the participation declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	Okay, you're going to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	It will be clear that I will come back to this extensively in the next few minutes. The current integration policy is a source of incomprehension. It leaves newcomers in the lurch, leaving the Netherlands in the lurch, because integration is in all our interests. I have often said here that the newcomer is not served by not being offered language lessons as long as he is in the procedure. Indeed, the widely adopted motion of D66, which regulates language lessons from day one, is still not being implemented. The newcomer is also not served by the fact that, once he has a residence permit, he is forced to apply for benefits because until then he has not been allowed to invest in himself and is therefore not an attractive labour force. The newcomer should not be left to himself, without knowing the language, but should look for a suitable language course in the forest of providers of various languages, make a loan himself on opaque Dutch-language government websites to finance the lessons, until such time as he can hardly or hardly communicate with the teacher of his children, with his neighbors and with institutions and cannot work and participate in society. Nor are the people who see the newcomers coming in with their eyes open to them. Those people are worried about their neighborhood, their jobs and their safety. Whether that is right or wrong, these are people who work hard for their money and who see that the Eritrean neighbor with a benefit is at home all day and does not yet speak a word of Dutch. I get that wringing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	Who has chosen to come to the Netherlands, often even through seven safe countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	Well, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	Then I ask two questions in the second instance. Who does? I already asked that question; I would like an answer to that. I would like to put a third question because I did not receive an answer to the first question, but I need the President's permission to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	If you ask your question quickly now, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	I do not understand the first question: "Who chose this?" I don't know. I don't know all these people. Does Mr. De Graaf want names and addresses? I do not understand Mr De Graaf's intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	There's always a difference between right-wing people and left-wing people. Left-wing people are always working on the intensity of something and right-wing people are always working on reality. We see that collision here. That is why my intention is being asked, while I asked a crystal clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Van Meenen says that all those people who come here have to figure this out themselves on websites and the like, that there is no guidance, that there is not enough money to help them and you name it all. My question is: who has chosen to come to the Netherlands, often via safe countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	People coming from war zones, for example. Well, they didn't even choose that. They've been forced to flee. We are a country where people fleeing war are threatened in their existence and persecuted for who they are, in a neat way. Fortunately, that is still the case; if it is up to Mr De Graaf's party, it may be different. That's what I stand for. I want this to happen in a good way. We are not doing that now, and Mr De Graaf does not want to do that either. He doesn't want people who have every right to stay here to integrate. No, because then there would be a problem solved by the existence of which he practically derives his existence. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	So there is also an HBO for gibberish and Mr Van Meenen graduated there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's really very...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	Do you mind if I give you an answer? Mr Van Meenen asks another question. He makes a lot of assumptions and makes a lot of comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	I'm not asking a question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr De Graaf has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	Right, thank you. Those people have often chosen to come here, through safe countries, whether they have fled or not. In almost all cases there is such uncertainty. It is a small minority who have fled war violence. Those people can be taken care of in the region, of course. But they choose to come to the Netherlands eventually. How confident does Mr Van Meenen have that these people can do something themselves? I find it so hautain and so bathinating of D66: through this input she shows no confidence in people and no confidence in Dutch people. And that while D66 is still the party to the upliftment of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	It's almost impossible to work an answer to this nonsense. Certainly we have faith in people, but then you have to give them a fair chance. We can also teach our children in the Netherlands in Chinese and then watch them struggle through it. Then you'll give them a chance, too. However, it is not just a question of trust. It's also a matter of offering opportunities. It is precisely the situation described by Mr De Graaf, the situation of people travelling through safe countries in his eyes, that calls for European cooperation. But Mr De Graaf does not want to know anything about that: no, we have to do everything for ourselves here and then this problem will really be solved. I'd say dream on, baby.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	Where was I? People who work hard for their money see their Eritrean neighbor, who they still can't speak to. That wrings. That doesn't feel right. Today's integration policy grows, if it doesn't work out, murky newcomers, who are despondent in a benefit, and a society that's fed up with it. I get that. If we carry on like this, we will once again be heading for an aid explosion and an integration disaster. Setting thresholds for newcomers? Yes, we must be very strict when economic refugees hope to enter the Netherlands by throwing away their identity cards through the asylum procedure. That's not what asylum applications are for. However, we must stop setting thresholds in the process of integration. That's counterproductive. So not let the newcomer figure it out all by himself, not let him pay it himself, not leave it to the market. That is why I tabled a motion before Christmas asking for integration and integration to be seen as a joint responsibility, a responsibility of newcomer and society and therefore of the government. This motion was voted down regrettably by, among other things, the Labour Party, of which I did not expect it to be. By voting against it, the motion did not succeed and this reciprocity did not become the starting point of the policy. D66 is therefore disappointed that in the last month that he still has the chance, the Minister intends to promote integration by making people sign a declaration. There are so many improvements to be made to the current Law of Integration. And so many have been proposed by the Chamber, but the Minister has put them aside. So many opportunities, so many practical handles that the citizens who are now on the route could have taken advantage of, but so little initiative. And then this! I will explain, step by step, why D66 is not waiting for such a declaration of participation. Then, of course, I will discuss how to do it according to D66. The Minister proposes to add the participation declaration pathway as a new part of the Integration Act. This process consists of an introduction to the core values of Dutch society and the signing of a participation declaration. That should be completed within a year. What exactly does that statement mean? What exactly does the Minister mean? The law lacks a definition of both the concept of "statement of participation" and the concept of "core value." Could the Minister perhaps explain these concepts orally? What are "core values" anyway? Doesn't people just mean "standards" or: the law, to which we are all bound? Anyone residing on Dutch territory must know and comply with the Dutch law. That is what I and my party attach great importance to. This seems to me to be adequately dealt with in the knowledge section of Dutch Society in the current integration process. If the Minister says that it is too long before the newcomer arrives at this part of the integration, then I fully agree with him. That's exactly why D66 wants newcomers to get language lessons from day one and can start real integration in the azc. Speaking of which, the newcomer in the azc already has access to the so-called pre-integration, which the COA takes care of in the azc's. But the quality of those pre-bourgeois classes sometimes leaves me wanting to know about.I've been told that while there's a lot of money in it. How is the quality of this integration assessed? Isn't it time for a proper screening? Will the Minister inform the Chamber of this matter in the near future? What is the value of signing such a declaration of participation? After my doubts about the definition, I wonder how the Minister estimates the value of the signature of such a piece of paper. The statement has no formal status. In pilots, the significance of the signing was therefore unclear for both the participants and the municipalities. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Minister wants to use two systems of fines: one for not taking the participation declarations and one for not taking the integration exam. The first question is whether this is efficient. But more importantly, what is the value of signing the declaration if there is a fine against it? What do you achieve by signing? And the most important question is: what does the Minister intend to achieve in concrete terms with this statement? What would make the Netherlands better if newcomers signed such a statement? Concepts such as freedom, equality, solidarity and participation are already mentioned in the law. So we all have to stick to that. The Dutch Bar Association calls these concepts so vague that a signature of the declaration does not contribute to integration and participation in society. The Minister thinks it makes sense. Why? Is it not already adequately covered by the Knowledge section of the Dutch Society in the current process of integration, for example in the Political and Constitutional section? Then I have a more practical point. At the moment, only one third of citizens pass the integration examination within the three-year period. How does adding another part to the integration process help? And how does the knowledge transfer to newcomers take place if they do not yet master the Dutch language at the beginning of the journey? Minister Asscher writes that a brochure is available in 12 languages. Does this mean that the introduction to the Dutch core values does not involve more than a review of a brochure? Offering language lessons from the first day the newcomer stays in the Netherlands seems a better solution. There is also an approved D66 proposal to this effect. When will language lessons start? It is a disaster that status holders are lagging behind every day they are here. This brings us to another contradiction in the legislative proposal. On the one hand, the Minister wants to associate newcomers with Dutch standards and core values as soon as possible with this legislative amendment. On the other hand, the government does not start the process of declaring participation before the moment when the citizen has left and is housed in the asylum-seekers' centre. That can take months and sometimes even years. What does the Minister really intend to do with this? Again, why do we not start the integration process in the asylum-seekers' centre? And why not re-direct the municipalities, at least the larger municipalities, which have the scale to cope with this? Municipalities now have no idea of the problems that newcomers encounter in their integration and therefore cannot intervene. There's gotta be another way. That is why I tabled an amendment, together with my colleagues Karabulut and Voortman, which Mrs Karabulut has just explained. The Minister writes that municipalities may "enable local needs" to fill in the introduction to the core values. What does that mean? Can this mean that the content of the introduction will look different in villages in the Biblebelt than in the big cities? That seems very undesirable to my group. But maybe I'm reading it wrong. D66 is strongly in favour of making integration a joint responsibility again; I have already said so. We do not believe that there should be any symbolic explanation from anyone. But if something has to be signed, do it together. Why don't you just get the burglar to sign it? Why not the city, too, as a gesture? This integration is in our common interest. Is the Minister prepared to adapt the law to this? For four years, newcomers have been completely abandoned and have to search their own way for loans and language lessons, through complex, Dutch-language websites. As the market for integration education was released three years ago, the companies for language lessons are shooting off the ground like mushrooms, but the quality of the lessons is at least not visible. Only a third of the newcomers pass his exam. Because of the wrong incentives in the system most citizens choose to take exams at the absolute minimum level: A2 instead of NT2. What does D66 want? D66 wants to focus on results rather than paper tigers. D66 wants training and employment contracts for newcomers. D66 wants newcomers to participate instead of signing a participation declaration. It is precisely this participation that has little impact on the current Law on Integration. In the Netherlands we have a compulsory education because we think it is important to give children opportunities and opportunities for development. We also have them because it is good for social cohesion. That is why we are also putting in place a provision, namely public education, which is accessible and of good quality. Integration is also compulsory in the Netherlands for the same reasons, and rightly so, but strangely enough our integration education is not publicly foreseen. It is private and we leave it to the individual responsibility of the citizen. This has to change. Make integration a public matter again by housing it with mainstream educational institutions or non-profit language agencies. For example, we immediately assure ourselves of professional teachers, qualitatively good inspection of course through the inspection of the Ministry of Education and we press unwanted incentives with which the refugee or... burglar becomes interesting as a earning model, in the head. Next, D66 wants to better map the goals of integration. For example, checking, instruction and starting position can be aligned. The objectives are not only about knowledge and skills, but also about attitudes, attitudes and reflection on and dialogue on citizenship. Work is a possible goal, but other forms of participation must certainly be taken into account in the first instance. Think, for example, of saving yourself independently in daily life or volunteering. In addition to language and knowledge, there should ideally be a complete education package. D66 wants to move towards a system that works with public policies based on scientific research, which differentiates at level. Only in this way can the highly qualified pharmacist from Aleppo, the illiterate from Eritrea and the Iranian housewife each be served to a tailor-made standard. Good education, including language acquisition, is in line with the student's experience. This is a great challenge for adults who already have a lot of experience, standards and values. This world of experience must be the starting point in establishing participatory forms of education. Good methods have already been developed for this. In short, D66 advocates a centrally regulated form of formal adult education with components such as language and communication, digital skills and numeracy, but also a profound orientation on society and on citizenship. This education must be a public provision of a mandatory nature for certain groups and must be controlled by the education inspection. Finally. D66 does not like the declaration of participation; that may be clear. However, this law has a golden edge, namely the recording of social guidance by municipalities in the law. That part would love to keep D66. We have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. For D66, offering opportunities is central. Through good public integration education and an open labour market, we shift attention to what a person can really contribute to society. For example, we jointly take responsibility for the good integration of newcomers. That's in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Van Meenen said in the first half of his speech that reciprocity is of great importance to his group. If you look at both the instrument and the text of the Declaration of Participation, then reciprocity is very much reflected in the fact that there are rights and obligations and freedoms and responsibilities. Surely these are the most important elements of reciprocity that should appeal to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	Sure, but there's nothing new in it. We already know these rights and obligations. New rights and new obligations are not suddenly being introduced; they already exist. No one, including Mr Heerma and I, has ever had to make a statement that he has certain rights and duties. No, we just have it because we have a law in this country. In that sense, it is unnecessary. If there is reciprocity then, the government should also be a signatory party. I have included this in my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr Van Meenen gives two answers which do not answer my questions. If the norm is what Mr Van Meenen and I have had to do, then you would not have to make any rules of integration at all, because we have never had to comply with it. We are therefore asking for something from citizens who have not been asked by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Heerma. That is the principle and not an argument. Mr Van Meenen may say that the government must also sign, but the government is the asking party here. My question concerned reciprocity. A central part of D66's argument is that reciprocity should be relevant, but the nature of the participation declaration is reciprocity, because we are calling for commitment. However, the declaration states that we have rights and obligations in the Netherlands and freedoms and responsibilities. That's the reciprocity D66 is asking for in the end, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's not an explanation, that's a fact. This is communicated to the newcomer and if he does not sign it, he will be fined. When I talk about reciprocity, I talk about the whole process, not just about this declaration, but about the whole process. This reciprocity is lacking at the moment. Under Rutte I, and that has been continued by this minister and this cabinet, everything has been thrown over the fence to the newcomer and he will find out. I say it as loudly as it is: there are groups in this Chamber that have no interest in ensuring that integration succeeds. I would point out that society has a huge interest in achieving integration and integration, but we really must do something about that. We can't spend all the time in the waves of "look how bad it all is." This is happening again in the run-up to this election. No, we can only make that happen if we, as a society, have done everything we can, and we do not. Instead, we're doing something completely different. We make people sign such a crazy statement. Look at that tough guy! Did we throw that in again? What's it gonna solve? I can also ask Mr Heerma that, and I will do so in his contribution. What's this gonna solve? What will be better for us in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Meenen on his speech. It is an exceptionally good story that outlines the foundations for a policy of integration of the future. It's always a question of what to do with each other. There too you must try to stay away from all kinds of sentiments, but such a system must also see that one year there is a bigger increase than the next. You have to be able to respond to that. Does D66 see a limit to this system, that is to say, that with this system about so many people can fully enter the Netherlands and get a place in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think you can say that the policies of recent years have been characterised by ad hoc measures. Although there were all kinds of indications, this cabinet was again surprised by the situation in 2015. Due to all kinds of developments, the inflow is now decreasing again and the facilities are being demolished again. You could argue for a kind of permanent base of shelter and provision in our country, because these kinds of situations can occur in the world. Then the fluctuations can be reduced and captured. Now we have to make every effort every time something happens in the world. I'm not gonna put a number on it, but we can handle something as a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	I certainly do not want to pin Mr Van Meenen on a number, but we can think about bandwidths. If anyone needs to get a place, we know it takes years for that place to get there at all. Such a system could be, for example, that you assume a certain bandwidth. If there is an increase we say "sorry, we can't, because we can't handle it" and if there is a decrease we have a basic capacity where there is some emptiness over a certain period of time. Should we not therefore try to get rid of this huge influx and instead should we not just say: this is what the Netherlands is doing, we are sending it on and when it is more, it is not possible at that moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	No, you can't say that. That also depends on the rest of your policy. In our programme, we call for a lot of social housing, new housing to be built in this country. That also gives air. This does not give any more food to the discontent, which I can sometimes understand, when there is repression or at least priority policy, which is always difficult. So these are resources that can help you avoid these kinds of problems. That is all for the long term, because these homes are not already there tomorrow, but we should start today so that we don't get too guided by these kinds of discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. Dutch society consists of a lot of different people. People with different ideas, different beliefs, different cultures and different backgrounds. Our society is multicultural. In a world with a lot of migration and conflicts, which makes many people in the Netherlands apply for asylum, it is necessary to invest in newcomers, so that people who are going to build a life here can find their way into Dutch society so that they can participate, work and feel at home. This is also important for Dutch society. This process, which we call integration, is indeed important. But how do we ensure that this goes as fast as possible and as well as possible? Unfortunately, last month we had to read that the bar is in bad shape. Less than half of the citizens who started in 2013 passed the exam and only one in three passed within the deadline. Less people learn the Dutch language at a high level. People get too little or too bad lessons. The Minister nuances this, but he also states himself that he is not satisfied. I can only conclude that the new integration policy with market forces in which commercial agencies fight for the benefit of the citizen has brought little good for the citizens or Dutch society. This integration policy places responsibility unilaterally on the citizen. It says: figure it out yourself, you're responsible, and if you can pass the test, yes, we'll know. It is assumed that choosing an integration course has added value in itself, but I do not really see what this adds, because every integration course should simply be good, with enough hours, good quality and proper information about our society, with people learning the language so that they can pass the exams. Why should you have to choose between a good and a bad provider? What we hear is that people don't get enough hours of lessons. The quality is often substandard. After three years, people don't pass the exam. The Minister can hardly send for this. In addition, it's about getting wise in society. Finding a good course at all already requires a lot of help, especially when everything is in Dutch. Then you have three years to master the Dutch language. You will then be tested for your knowledge of Dutch society and the labour market, but that does not seem to work enough. That is why GroenLinks believes that the direction should be directed towards municipalities. Allow municipalities to buy their own integration lessons or make sure that they can only be given by rocks. Then you can influence the content and quality. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Is he prepared to initiate the change towards a more public order and, if not, why not? He says he wants to have an investigation done in early 2018. In December, the Chamber passed a D66 motion calling for a thorough and rapid evaluation. In the general consultation two weeks ago, the Minister promised to return in writing to how he will have the Law on Integration evaluated. Is there anything else he can tell us about this? The Minister has already proposed a number of improvements to speed up the integration of refugees: faster volunteering, starting language lessons in the asylum seekers' centre, starting orientation on the labour market and starting pre-accession as soon as they have a residence permit. These are good measures, and it is good that this is finally happening. The time people are spending in asylum seekers' centres where they cannot do anything, integrate or learn the language is wasted for a very large group of people. In addition, the Minister makes the offer of integration courses more transparent. According to GroenLinks, that's just a Band-Aid on the wound. The offer should not necessarily be more transparent, because it is useless if you can see more trees in the forest. A citizen should simply be helped by the municipality to get a good course, without having to choose on the basis of... Yeah, from what, anyway? There's a huge gap in the accompaniment of burglars. We have set goals for integration, but citizens have to see for themselves how they get there. It is precisely the introduction in the Netherlands that is important, so it will be made clear in your new environment. If you're from Eritrea or Syria, it's not surprising that you don't know exactly what the traffic rules are or how you borrow a book from the library, how you find work or, more difficultly, a suitable integration course. Municipalities now have little influence to help people. That is why it is good that there is money again for social support. For example, municipalities can help to find a school or a job, in short: to find the way. That is why it is right that municipalities should be given the opportunity to educate, inform and guide people. This includes information on how things are going here. We will soon be discussing the need for newcomers to learn what our values are. It seems like the debate today: how do we ensure that newcomers take advantage of our so-called standards and values? In this discussion, it is clear that culture is so easily confused on the one hand and standards and values on the other. Because what are these Dutch values? Pleitvoers often talk about equality between men and women, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom to walk the streets as gays hand in hand. I always hear the same examples. These are the examples that directly result from our Constitution. It is the rules of our Constitution that are called Dutch core values. I can tell you that they are not exclusively Dutch. In fact, I think that these are universal values. GroenLinks naturally embraces those basic values in the Constitution. We also believe that everyone should abide by the law. If you apply for a residence permit here, you commit to that as far as we're concerned. Of course, not everyone from elsewhere knows the core values of equality and freedom. If you grow up in a dictatorship, freedom of speech and freedom of the press are new. When you grow up in a patriarchal system, equality between men and women is not self-evident. That's why it's good to tell newcomers that. That is why it is also good to explain how certain things usually work in Dutch society and in the labour market. However, more and more people are pretending that there are all kinds of unwritten rules in our culture that everyone should abide by. If you don't follow it, you're not a real Dutchman. What exactly is that, Mr. Chairman? Does anyone who lives in the Netherlands have to eat potatoes at six o'clock or is pasta good at eight o'clock? Do you have to call before you visit a friend or can you have friends you just walk in on? Should everyone send a postcard when a child is born or can you also congratulate people in another way, for example via a text message? The nonsensical questions about the integration exam that have been widely shared on social media in recent weeks have already shown: there is not one way of life here. That's a good thing. The freedom to set that up is Dutch. Of course it is useful to know what is used here, but a use is not respected exactly by everyone. That is why it is good to inform people and explain to them at an early stage that men and women are equal, although the cynic will note that in the Netherlands men and women are not always paid equally. Or that the freedom of religion means that you can just wear a headscarf here, just like someone else can wear a yarmulke, although the cynic will notice that the cabinet has just banned the burqa. Whether that discrimination is prohibited, although the cynic will note that there is still a great deal of discrimination on the labour market. Anyway, explaining the core values in our Constitution and pointing the way in the municipality seems very useful to us. We are concerned above all with the very basic concepts which the Minister also mentions: freedom, equality, solidarity and participation. Besides, there's a lot of practical stuff. What can the city help you with? How do you like a school for your kids? How do you move in traffic? This is particularly important because the education of integration does not provide enough for this at the present time. The integration is now only a final test on knowledge of Dutch society that people need after so many years. How they acquire that knowledge, they have to see for themselves whether they learn it from a book or from some desk. So it may be that people have lived here for years without having had a decent introduction to our society. We throw people in the deep end and say, "Let's see it if you can swim." Instead of helping them learn how to swim. We have to welcome people who come here and explain them in a friendly way how things work here. It's things that aren't going to take for granted if you didn't grow up here. That is why I also understand the idea behind the process that has been launched, the so-called participation process. These include information, information brochures on practical matters, short movies, guided tours and information meetings. That's welcome. They are positive ways to introduce people to the society of their future. This is useful, especially since municipalities are given the direction again and the money for social guidance. That's good, and that's necessary. We see in the evaluation that municipalities are positive about this. I do have a question about the temporality. Does the Minister see for himself that the citizen starts simultaneously with the integration process and the participation process? If so, isn't that clumsy? Isn't it an additional reason to give more direction to municipalities and to allow them to take over as a public task? Then both things can be integrated and then it doesn't have to double-up. I come to the signing of the Declaration of Participation, the headpiece that the Minister wants to introduce just before the end of his ministry, because he thinks that the Dutch feel at ease when newcomers have to sign explicitly to join it. But this participation statement doesn't do anything. The pilot shows that municipalities and participants feel that signing has limited or even no added value. Often people don't even understand what they're drawing. Advisory Councils and Refugee Work have also said it does not make much sense. After all, someone who does agree with the values already does, and someone who does not agree with the values is really not going to refuse to sign. More importantly, the fundamental argument is that this declaration explicitly lays the responsibility to participate in the citizen. It's based on suspicion. People who are new here probably don't want to be part of it. They have to show extra that they are participating. It is not a two-sided statement, in which the Dutch government or society in turn indicates that it will accept the newcomer and that he has the same rights as any other Dutchman. It is a unilateral responsibility of the citizen to show that he or she embraces the Dutch core values. Newcomers have to prove that they really want to be part of it. It seems to do nothing but reassure the distrustful citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mrs Voortman has outlined a rather nuanced picture of a number of basic ideas behind the participation process. Although I think the CDA and GroenLinks differ on the importance of these core values, it seems to me that the text of the Declaration of Participation falls more into the category of 'what is enshrined in the Constitution' than in the category 'you have to eat potatoes at six or eight o'clock pasta'. It is largely about rights, about freedoms enshrined in our Constitution. Solidarity and participation, of course, go a little further than just the Constitution. So it's a little more than just that. Mrs Voortman was positive about that in the basics. It also indicates that we cannot expect anyone who comes here, for example from a dictatorship or a patriarchal society, to understand this. Then that is to put forward and to point out those duties and those rights and freedoms, which is really in the text, given her speech, surely not that crazy? Reciprocity is automatically there, because the text expresses both that you are entitled to those freedoms and that you have to fulfil those responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	I may not have expressed myself clearly enough, but I have tried to make a difference between the guidance that is in that trajectory and the part where I have now arrived, the participation statement itself. We like counseling. This is already happening in many municipalities. So you can also doubt whether it really has any added value. That guidance is good and GroenLinks supports it. What matters is that it is thought that such an explanation is still needed. That evokes the feeling that it will be true that people do not want to participate. In other words, the absence of such an explanation would mean that the route itself is not meaningful. We don't think that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	With that, GroenLinks actually says that she doesn't think the route is so crazy but that she doesn't want the declaration to be signed. That's how I understand it. It also cites a number of parties that are critical. I've spoken locally to people involved in the pilot, including a mayor. He said to me: "I think signing that statement is very important because of the responsibility I also have as mayor locally. That is the moment we use to point out to people who enter here that this is not just something. We remind you here of the fundamental rights you have, but also of the duties and responsibilities. Please note: we're going to hold you to that too." That mayor, who has to do with oldcomers, newcomers and large groups of refugees, just said that it has added value. Can Mrs. Voortman see that that side's on it, too? I am not trying to trap Mrs Voortman to force her to support it, but I am trying to make it clear that that side is really on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	I understand that, but I would like to start by wondering why we are not presenting that statement to everyone. If a mayor says he needs that statement, isn't it more logical to make that statement truly two-sided by indicating what the signatory can expect from the government? I'm not tasting that enough in this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Heerma, briefly because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mrs Voortman said that you can claim those freedoms anyway because they are in the Constitution, but those freedoms are certainly included in the Declaration of Participation. It is very much part of the text that this is part of how we dealt with it in the Netherlands. That's what it's there with, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	I am not talking about these freedoms, because we have those freedoms anyway. You can discuss them in the course and you don't need that specific piece of paper for that. When I say it should be more two-sided, I say that I expect it to be: we accept you, you have the same rights as us, and the government also has a responsibility towards you as a newcomer. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the question is why this declaration of participation, if we consider it so important, is not presented to everyone. I also wonder why it is not much clearer that it is two-sided. Mr. Chairman. If newcomers do not sign, they will be fined or even refused the residence permit. It must and will be as this minister has devised it. He is actually even derogatory, because it is assumed that the basic attitude of people is that they do not want to participate. The minister's acting like people don't want to be a part of it. That's not progressive patriotism, that's paternalistic patriotism. It's making people small to make them explain something. It's exactly the wrong symbol, because it's a symbol of distrust. Surely a more positive symbol as a naturalization celebration or a certificate as a reward for participating in the journey would be much more beautiful? GroenLinks does not understand why the Minister and all of us should devote so much time to signing the declaration of participation. That is why I have tabled an amendment to take the signing out of the law and to allow municipalities to start a process of participation, as long as they have little influence on integration. Contaminate this law, in which there is a good point about guiding people, not with a bad symbol like the participation declaration. Let us also ensure that language and integration start from day one, and let us organise more guidance and good information. That is much more valuable and meaningful than forcing a paper to be signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	This is, in essence, a positive contribution from Mr Voortman van GroenLinks. Since 2015, many new Dutch have come and welcomed. We don't have any waiting lists, so generally everyone's on the school couch for burgers. Qualitative can do better. As far as I'm concerned, the public role may increase. Last week I heard your political leader say that the reception of new Dutch people is a matter of organisation, from which I conclude that we can accommodate everyone. There's a line in there? You're talking about the quality of integration and care. Can we take people without limits and at the same time is it a matter of organisation to take everyone in, let everyone in and so on? Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	The question seems to be: can you call a maximum number of people that you would like to receive? I would not call it that, and I would be curious if the Labour Party could.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	No, I'm not talking about numbers. Integration needs to be organized. That requires something from society. Your political leader says we can take anyone, it's just a matter of organisation. There is no limit in that view. I'm not talking about numbers. I ask whether it is indeed just a question of organisation. According to GroenLinks, can we handle everything or are we also at borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	My political leader's ruling was about the way the shelter was organized. It was about the phase in which people were received in sports halls in a very provisional way: a week here, a week there. A few years ago, we closed down asylum seekers' centres. I don't have the literal quote right now, but I think he said the organization was a mess. There's been a lot of hard work to get it started. Thanks to local authorities, this has finally been achieved. But if we had organized that well in advance, the war in Syria had already begun when we closed the azc's here, then it would not have been necessary. Once again, I do not have the quote on hand, but I think my group chairman pointed that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	You are actually saying that there are limits to what we can handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	No, I'm not saying that. I'm saying it's a matter of organizing well. If you see developments and anticipate them well, you can do a lot. That's exactly what this is about. Again, I am very curious to see what the Labour Party means by this. There's a suggestion that there's a limit to what we can do. I am curious to see the maximum number of people that the Labour Party thinks we can accommodate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr Marcouch is on the list of speakers, but I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. Let us not pretend that something very big is going to happen today, because that is not true. We're gonna take a step. The PVV is in favour of not only learning the language, but also the core values of Dutch society. Otherwise, of course, you'll never be able to assimilate. The declaration of participation is a small and, above all, symbolic part of this. It is a kind of declaration of intent that is being made; that is how we see it. Signing does not mean that the citizen has also embraced the Dutch values, let alone innerized them. Of course, that's much later. This statement will certainly not solve the major problems of integration. More robust measures are needed for this, but this cabinet is not prepared to take these measures. Then we're talking about turning off the crane... closing the borders... not allowing people... so that the people who are here now, except those who have come through safe countries, can start their integration. What are the structural costs of this statement? And what are the structural costs of introducing the legislative amendment as a whole? For my group, that is not 100% clear. About major measures that need to be taken in order at least to get the integration back on track, say the following. No one is being evicted at the moment who cannot or does not want to meet the requirements for integration, even though this was so tough in the coalition agreement. It says: "A restrictive and fair immigration policy also involves an active and consistent return policy. Those who are not allowed to stay here must leave or be deported." This quote in the coalition agreement also stopped. Groups are excluded from compulsory integration, for example from Turkey. The borders remain wide open to new influxes of migrants, and the government prefers to promote the Islamisation of Dutch society over assimilation of newcomers. It's gotta be different now. In the first place: borders close. That's what I just said. Close the borders so that we can focus on the integration of those who are already here and who have not come through safe countries. 'Cause the latter need to "get back to normal." The cost of integration, if it is up to the PVV, is borne by the citizen. Strict enforcement of the requirements is important. Those who cannot or do not want to settle in must leave or be deported. That's what needs to be done. The Netherlands must continue to be de-Islamicised to face this great threat to our culture, identity and security. One part of it we've been talking about this morning in the Chamber. I see Mr Öztürk walking to the interrupting microphone. Mind if I keep him waiting a little longer, Mr. Chairman? I'm almost at the end of my speech. My group will vote in favour of adding the declaration of participation to the Integration Act. We have more difficulty with the other part of the proposal. I will have to have some internal discussion on this, but at least we think the participation declaration is important enough to vote in favour of this bill. However, there is still a need for some internal discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr De Graaf of the PVV often talks about assimilation. According to him, newcomers have to assimilate and stuff. Does he also think that Dutch people living abroad, for example in Germany, China or Brazil, should be assimilated in the country where they live? The question is also: what does this assimilation look like? Do people have to blonde, like Geert Wilders, or shave completely bald, like De Graaf? What does the assimilation process look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	At least as Mr Öztürk has tried to do in the Netherlands, it doesn't look like Assimilation. We are talking about integration, and we see the harmful consequences of that. The PvdA has had a lot of trouble, with Mr Öztürk and Mr Kuzu. Let me put it this way: I do not think they are the model of assimilation. Mr Öztürk also made an assumption error. He asks: should Dutch people be assimilated to foreigners? It's like it's a process the government has in its hands. No, you can sign, Mr Öztürk, but listen carefully. Mr Öztürk mentioned "to be assimilated." It's about people assimilating themselves. In fact, Mr Öztürk has probably listened to it well in the past year. I have always set the following example. If a Dutchman, or if I were myself, would go to another country, I would orient myself on the language of that country before departure. In fact, I'd learn that language before I went. I would orientate myself to the labour market, I would orientate myself to schools for my children. And I would fully adapt there, if I could have a chance to participate in that society, contribute and pay taxes there as well. Then I would assimilate myself completely into that society. I think that's perfectly normal, yes. That's ample answer to a small question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	So if Mr. De Graaf moved to Morocco, would he be a Moroccan Count? That's what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	Yeah, except I wouldn't go to Morocco. But I don't think that's a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	That is exactly the problem: how are people supposed to adapt here? We're not sure about that in this country. Actually, we're on the other side of it. We have the Constitution here and we have our laws here. I ask the PVV: if people here comply with all the laws and regulations, what more should they do according to the PVV? That's enough, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	In between, I answered the first part. Of course, I would never go to Morocco. I'd make other choices. For the time being, I still love this beautiful country and the rules and the laws that are there. I'm just not crazy about the laws we're trying to change. Tightening integration and striving for assimilation is one way of doing this. We're not trying to change that for nothing. In fact, I have already given the answer in my answer to Mr Öztürk's first question. What else do people have to do? Mr Öztürk was just trying to make a caricature of it. We saw a lot of that this morning, and we just saw that for a while. But making caricatures out of a bill that is before us does not make any sense, not at all when it comes to serious matters like this one. So I'm gonna leave the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. Become a member of a community, join a community and participate in a community are special moments. It is right that special attention should be paid to this. It happens in student associations at the inauguration of first-year students, which is usually called something else, but forward, and it happens even in monastery orders, in so far as they now receive new members, after going through the novitiate. It also makes sense for society as a whole. From newcomers who want to join the community, we can expect the promise that they will do their part. Since a few years more attention has been paid to the granting of Dutch citizenship, but when it arrives in the Netherlands it all goes a bit bare back then. Newcomers are subject to an examination, but the possibility of declaring their willingness to engage is lacking. The SGP believes that we can expect that statement from everyone, regardless of whether newcomers will become Dutch over time. The SGP welcomes the thrust of this bill. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I would like to zoom in on a few points, first of all on the nature of the declaration of participation. In the documents, the government indicates that repetition is a good teacher. That's right. The knowledge gained by newcomers in the participation declaration process will then be deepened in the preparation for the exam. The SGP has no need to contradict that. But the added value of the participation declaration is that the newcomers are ready to work for the society they want to be part of. We do not have that part in the current system. The SGP therefore finds it strange that the statement of participation, as a final act, is not mentioned in the legislative proposal, let alone that its character is described. Therefore, the SGP does not understand how the government can state in the note following the report that it is legally regulated that the participation declaration process should consist of, on the one hand, an introduction to the core values of Dutch society and, on the other hand, the signing of the participation declaration. That basic double does not necessarily follow from this bill. The proposal only contains the word "participant statement path." In our view, the lack of a basic structure is difficult to reconcile with the regulatory guidelines. It would be a good idea to make a brief and clear definition of what is intended for the future. I would therefore like to hear the view of the Dijkgraaf/Heerma amendment on part No. 8. It closely follows the intention of the government. I am therefore flattering myself with the hope of a positive response from the Minister. The second point I would like to focus on is the clarity of core values. The SGP considers it logical that the declaration of participation should be laid down in a ministerial arrangement. Textual changes to the declaration do not need to lead to a parliamentary procedure immediately. At the same time, it must be clear which core values the participation declaration contains. The SGP does not consider the concepts of "freedom," "equality" and "solidarity" to be so crazy. The Explanatory Memorandum uses the textual alternatives "equivalence" and "connection." The SGP does not want to argue about the precise choice of words, but it wants to know whether the Minister can confirm that additional core values cannot be added to the Statement of Participation. Does the government recognise that a change of law would be necessary if, for example, a political majority believes that a value as "self-fulfillment" should be added? It cannot be the intention that the values that now determine the content of the bill could be changed by ministerial regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr Bishop and I know each other very well, because we have debates on education very often. I know Mr Bishop as someone who, on behalf of the SGP, is constantly working in education debates to expose all kinds of nonsense and put her finger on it. That's why I can't understand his contribution. Mr Bishop must agree with me that it is rather odd that you should have someone declare, under duress, that he is going to contribute, on penalty of a fine. That is bullshit, isn't it, that Mr Bishop would never accept in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	I did ask myself that in the course of the preparation. What kind of function is such a declaration of participation? Is that really how you strain people who really don't want to get out? I'm not sure. I explained it to myself as follows. Actually, you could see this as some sort of preliminary trajectory. You're here and you're weird to us, with all due respect. We receive you and the rights and duties serve you as a newcomer, but we also want to know from you whether you are going to be loyal to our society. It's sort of a preliminary trajectory. Then the whole examination process will follow, and then the deepening process will take place whatever the government is talking about. In that sense, I don't think it's absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	But with all due respect to my dear colleague, we are talking about a statement and it is made at a time when the person who has to make that statement can hardly understand what it is about. Imagine doing that at a fraternity. You make a statement in Chinese and you say: you have to sign it and otherwise you get a fine. Well, we're gonna do that to these newcomers. What's that supposed to mean? Why do we have to, if we have to, at that time? Why do we have to do it at all? I know the SGP as a very constitutional party. Isn't every Dutchman supposed to know the law? There are all these core values, and that is not just a matter of expanding, which is what the SGP is about. Why don't we just stick to that fact? Just tell that newcomer, as you say to everyone: you're just supposed to abide by the law and that's this law. You don't have to sign separately for that. I never had to do that, and neither did you. Why? What will make the Netherlands better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	Then you ask me to look into a glass ball that I don't have at my disposal. So I can't predict that. The difference is that Mr Van Meenen and I were born as a Dutchman. This is about newcomers who aren't Dutch yet and who require you to be aware of what they are about to start by means of such a participation statement. Do you really want to belong to this? When that initial trajectory, that propedeuse, so to speak, is completed, it is confirmed by the statement: I want to start that trajectory. Then the integration course continues. I see the added value in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	I have another question about the declaration of participation. So Mr Bishop says: it seems to me very good for newcomers. But there are also people who have lived in the Netherlands all their lives and yet feel that when it comes to men and women, there is a difference between what men should be allowed to do and what women should be allowed to do. Wouldn't it therefore be much more useful to make such a declaration of participation mandatory for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	Does Mrs Voortman mean: also for born Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yeah, for people who don't think men and women are equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	I don't know if that's the biggest problem. There are some different views about that. It's a well-known fact. Among other things, the SGP also has a clear vision of this, in which equality, respectful handling and acceptance and so on are not at all at stake. But for the sake of several thousands of newcomers to have millions of Dutch people sign a statement on an annual basis, it seems to me a little too much of the good. Moreover, Dutch are born as a Dutchman, while the person whose participation is requested has arrived as a foreigner. You want to give them the chance to burgeon, but then you ask for loyalty to society. I assume that the diversity of interpretation of some rights in that integration course will also be addressed. This is all part of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	That's the trajectory, but I'm talking about the statement. The suggestion is a bit that some of the newcomers will not support this. It may well be that some newcomers are not quite behind this, but a large part of the newcomers are. They will also be presented with that statement. Then why is it wrong to ask people who have lived here for a long time to sign that statement? And why isn't it wrong to ask that of people who come here new?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	Just because they're newcomers. They come weird in this society. It is real to point out to these people: well know what you are getting into. This is our society, here you are a guest, here you can acquire a place and we ask loyalty from you to contribute to that society. I don't think that's so weird. I see that more as a careful start before those people go into that whole trajectory. This can also prevent a disappointment. I will continue my speech. The third point I want to zoom in on is the penalty of refusal. When signing the Declaration of Participation, it is clear that this part of the integration process, the first part, has been completed. That vision shares the SGP. It is understandable that the government does not want to prevent citizens from working with other parts of the exam before they have signed the certificate of participation. We do not disagree on this. The key question for us is why newcomers should be allowed to integrate and receive support even further after refusing to declare their willingness to participate. That is a strange situation as far as we are concerned. Why do we commit to the clear refusal to participate no more serious consequences than a fine? The Dijkgraaf/Heerma amendment in part No. 9 ensures that these new entrants are no longer entitled to a loan. I would like to hear the reaction of the government. My fourth point is enforcement. The General Court has rightly called for attention to be paid to the quality of integration courses and the success rate. We make a suggestion that can improve the chances of success. We look for it mainly in a certain form of, brief, accompaniment. In the current system, DUO awaits the assessment of the results until the three-year integration period has expired. It would be nice if signals were given much earlier if things were to go wrong with the citizens, for example if they are hardly present on the courses. DUO could then issue a warning, possibly in the form of a kind of binding study advice, which could, for example, affect the loan that has been concluded. Language schools are already obliged to provide DUO with information on attendance on request. In this respect, information must then be possible. Would the Minister like to explore this direction of thinking in order to give more form to the monitoring of the process? The SGP considers it important that the sanction of the loss of the residence permit is effectively used if the citizen is culpable for not complying with the obligation. Can the Minister promise to inform the Chamber periodically about this? This concerns numbers and backgrounds. The Government states that it does not consider a separate exemption for signing the Statement of Participation to be necessary. We would like to have a more detailed explanation of that. Why is it assumed that anyone who is unable to pass the integration exam would also not be able to simply express his willingness? As far as we are concerned, the signing of the declaration should really be done by virtually everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	I say to my fellow Members that Mr Öztürk will speak as the last speaker, after Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal before us contains two elements: the addition of the declaration of participation to the integration process and the legal anchoring of the greater role of municipalities in the form of social support for the integration of refugees. As far as my group is concerned, we are basically in favour of both elements of this law. I would, however, like to make the point that, when the Minister first presented the idea of the participation contract, the size and nature of his proposal was greater than what is now in place. This has to do with the disappearance of the term "contract" but above all with the limitation of the group to which this applies. After all, the Minister once intended to apply this also to European migrants and Turkish migrants. My group regrets that this has not become as big as the Minister had announced. It is not the first time that the expectations raised were greater than the final results; that is what we discussed in the budget debate. At the same time, I believe that this legislative proposal is a step in the right direction. My group is therefore pleased that we can discuss this bill at the end of this cabinet period. The Minister explained in the last general consultation why this could not be done earlier, because that would have been even better. We therefore support the introduction of a compulsory declaration of participation as part of the existing integration process, but we still have a number of questions, partly in line with the questions raised by Mr SGP, partly because we have tabled a number of amendments together. The first question, however, concerns the broader basis which the Minister originally intended. Can the Minister explain again by what limitation we cannot ask for the declaration of participation for European or Turkish non-citizen migrants? It's too bad this can't happen. The Minister writes that people are encouraged to participate voluntarily. If Mr Elias is chairman, I may never speak English, but he's not here right now. This is a second best option, a good alternative, but can the Minister explain exactly what is going to be done at local level to encourage non-citizen migrants to participate in the process and also in the declaration? On the incorporation of the declaration of participation into the law, I made an amendment together with Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP. I am very curious about the Minister's response to that amendment, because it anchors the declaration of participation in the law. We don't think that's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	Does the voluntary signing of the declaration by non-citizen migrants concern all migrants, including migrant workers and regardless of background? Or is Mr Heerma only talking about migrants with Turkish backgrounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	It is good that Mrs Karabulut asks this question if I have not been clear. The Minister's original proposal, which, I believe, contained a very large article at the time, contained a participation contract, which would also apply to migrants, including migrant workers, from the EU and to Turkish migrants, who are also not obliged to enter into employment under the association agreement. The Minister indicated that this gave a hook to do something, for example, for Eastern European migrants within Europe and for Turkish migrants, despite the fact that they are not subject to integration. This has been left out of the final proposal, but the note on the report, which Mrs Karabulut, of course, has also read, says that it is being considered at local level how these people can be encouraged to participate voluntarily. I think that's a good idea. It is not just about migrants from Turkey, it is also about migrants within Europe. My question to the Minister was exactly what is happening at local level to encourage this. So if I was unclear on this point, I hope I have corrected it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	So: for all migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	Yes. In addition to the amendment I tabled with Mr Dijkgraaf, I really have to say: the amendment that Mr Dijkgraaf has tabled with me, because the SGP has taken the initiative to do so, I am considering a second amendment, on a point to which I think the SGP Group has just touched. I welcome the text of the participation declaration. I tend to be a little normative now: I might be a little... Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that the balance has been struck in this regard. I was also talking about the issue of the rights and obligations of the Constitution in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Voortman, and also about solidarity and participation. However, I do not think it is settled that this text should be amended by the Chamber. I think that's kind of weird. If we make a legal commitment that this is going to happen, then I also want the Chamber to have a role if in future a new minister or cabinet wants to change that text in such a way that it is no longer in line with what we are discussing here. I am therefore considering an amendment which I have not yet finished in order to ensure that the Chamber is always involved in amending the text. It could theoretically be done by means of a motion, but I think it might be best to do so by means of an amendment. I would ask the Minister to respond to the assumption that it is not settled now. Is that right? And does he agree that it should be arranged? So, in addition to the amendment which regulates that the purpose of the participation declaration is also enshrined in the law, there will be an amendment which regulates that a change of the text must be passed by the Chamber. I have two more questions about the consequences of non-citizenism. The first question concerns a discussion we have been having for a long time, which I also saw in the news this morning: the ultimate sanction for refusing to burgeon must be that you lose your residence status. The Bishop just asked for it on behalf of the SGP. I've felt that way for a while. I have also made a number of statements about it. I would like to hear from the Minister about the state of play. Any progress? With this ultimate sanction, are there already more meters behind the door in the integration process, both in the Netherlands and at European level, to which the Minister referred earlier? I come to my second question on this point. This is partly about sanctions, but it is also about reciprocity. If you refuse to sign the participation statement, if you refuse to participate, can you claim the loan that belongs to the system? You don't want to join the system, but you do claim a loan. I also tabled an amendment on this subject together with the SGP. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr Heerma, like indeed Mr Azmani, has been calling for enforcement in recent years and asking why people are not taking away their right of residence if they fail. But what is Mr Heerma's analysis? Is he suggesting that enforcement is out of order? Or does he have facts on the basis of which he says that citizens are massively evading the duty of integration, at least that some of them do? It's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	Then I am glad that Mrs Karabulut once again gives me the opportunity to explain this further. Indeed, I have repeatedly asked for this. I'm always talking about the in-ultimosanction when people refuse to burgeon. That's not the same thing if you don't get your integration exam in time. That is also a problem which Mrs Karabulut has also mentioned. But my group, too, is of the opinion that if you refuse to enter citizens, then in the end the penalty must be that you can lose your residence permit. This has resulted in a lot of discussion over the past two years, because the VVD previously stated that this was already the case. In the meantime, it has slowly but surely become clear that it is not the case in practice. The VVD now also advocates that this sanction should be in place in the end. This is what we find. That's not the same as saying: everyone throws the hat at it and should lose their residence status if he doesn't make it within the time limit. It is perhaps a harder and firmer demand than the SP Group would like, but I hope I can make it clear in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	It's clear, all right. Can I ask Mr Heerma if he has received any signals that citizens are refusing to burgeon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	I'm going to give two answers to that. The first answer is that I believe that for a working system there should be the in-ultimosanction. That's where it starts. For me, therefore, it is also a matter of principle for the system. My second answer is: yes, those signals are there. They were discussed, for example, in a hearing in the Chamber in which we were present together and which I believe was also organised by Mrs Karabulut. This was about the problem of abandoned women in forced marriages. I think it was an impressive hearing anyway. But there were also attendees who said that there were wedding migrants who were locked up at home, because the partner would rather pay a fine than let his wife settle in. This is an example of signals that we received together in such a hearing that there are problems in the system and with the system even now if there is no in-ultimosanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	That's for sure, but that man is Dutch, so you can't turn him off. And turning off that oppressed woman doesn't seem like a way to solve this either. But Mr Heerma's point is clear to me. I was more concerned that this is often mentioned in one breath with all the problems surrounding integration. This sometimes leads to the suggestion, especially by the VVD, that citizens are massively excluded from the obligation of integration and therefore increasingly stringent requirements are needed. That is not the case, not even according to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	There are a lot of problems with the system. Mrs Karabulut and I have been trying to get the figures up in several AO's over the past few years, because there have been signs that it is not working properly. Several parties, including the SP and the CDA, have, sometimes jointly, made proposals to improve this. For example, the CDA Group has today tabled a motion to enable integration through public service broadcasting. I know that this speech was also made by Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group. So no, it's not just this. We also propose to improve things where things are not going well. I found Mrs Voortman's input, although I disagreed on many points, nuanced about the fact that steps have been taken in recent years. She indicated that it was often too little and too late, but she was chic about the fact that steps have been taken and that steps are also being taken in this law. Social support, the second part of this law, which is aimed precisely at refugees, is also something that my group supports. We have to be honest about the fact that refugees coming in here have a different background than family migrants coming in here. I therefore welcome the fact that this law makes a difference in this respect. However, it remains to be seen that in this system, the ultimate sanction should be the loss of residence status, if you knowingly do not settle in. I have two more questions. One has to do with the system of medical exemptions. Although it's quite tight, you don't just qualify for it and the percentages aren't very high either.I get signals from the practice that groups of citizens with a certain background use that system relatively often. There would also have been deliberate efforts to escape demands. I don't have hard evidence for it, but I get those local signals sometimes. I therefore ask the Minister if he gets those signals. Or is the system of medical exemptions indeed so tight that this is not possible? And if the minister doesn't know, will he find out if it's true that certain groups of citizens are using that medical exemption more often? That's a signal I'd like to have a reaction to. Finally, I have a question that has been asked earlier. What about the policy freedom of municipalities to complete the process prior to signing the participation statement? Can the Minister explain how it is being designed and how it is going to be completed? After all, there is also guidance on the content and design of this social guidance. I would like to explain the freedoms that municipalities have and do not have, because I see both sides of it. I think it's very good that municipalities have freedom of policy. I don't think they should get caught too much. At the same time, I also welcome the fact that there are still rules on content and design. I would like to have a more detailed explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	Now I see Mrs Karabulut again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	I always like to give Mr. Heerma opportunities, and he usually takes them. I have one last question. It is clear to me that he is a warm supporter of the declaration of participation and of social support and that there are advantages to it. I share that to some extent. What, according to the CDA Group, justifies a new, heavier sanctioning regime, while there is already a sanctioning regime with fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	The declaration of participation is partly symbolic. I believe in the power of symbols, but I think it's okay if it's not just non-binding and there's sanctions for avoiding it. I believe that this sanction regime is also there because the declaration of participation is at the front of the integration process. I am also looking at the Minister with half an eye in anticipation of his reply. Any sanctions if you don't finish it in time, they're at the end. I think you'll need a separate system for that in time if you want a sanction. You can say that there should be no sanctions, but I do not think that it is enough not to have anything additional. That is how I interpreted it, but I would like to be corrected by the Minister in the first place if this interpretation is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	There are sanctions, there is an obligation to integrate and the declaration of participation becomes part of the integration process. There is already a fairly severe sanction, apart from practice and enforcement. I am therefore looking for the need to threaten once again with a very angry face with a heavy fine. There's no reason for that at all. With the participation statement you want to invite people to get to know society, to feel at home and to internalize certain values. Pilots show that the experiences of municipalities and students are in that contact and in the pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	Listen, the nice thing is always beautiful. I also pointed out in my interrupting debate with Mrs Voortman that the power of symbols around core values is very important. However, I also believe in the interests of a sanctioning regime. I think these sanctions are important. This applies to integration, where we would like to see the ultimate sanction, but it also applies to the participation declaration, which is at the beginning of the process. In my view, the fine is much lower than the penalty for refusing to burgeon. I do think this has added value. It is about making clear what rights and duties and freedoms and responsibilities are in our society. That's very nice in the text. I like the fact that there are consequences to it. In fact, together with the SGP Group, we believe that the reciprocity of this process should also be tied to the fact that you are not eligible for a loan if you refuse to sign it. We disagree on this, but I do think it is part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	I think you'll continue to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	One more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	Really short, not three minutes, but twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	It must all be proportional, of course. I would just like to ask Mr Heerma to take a serious look at our amendment and think about all the Dutch who bring their partner here in the context of family reunification, do their stinking best and expect something from government reciprocity. They find it very annoying that there is a threat of an even higher fine, while they are doing their stinking best and there is already a sanction and enforcement regime. I would like to give that further consideration to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	I am going to respond briefly to that. I always look seriously at the amendments tabled by the SP. At the same time, the CDA and the SP are really different in this. The system has rights and obligations, freedoms and responsibilities. I think it is right in the context of reciprocity that there should also be consequences if you do not do so. The spokesperson of D66 already talked about a piece of paper, about a paper tiger that is nothing. That would be the other side of the discussion. I believe that these two sides should be reflected in this. Furthermore, I believe that the sanctioning if you withdraw from it is indeed proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr. Chairman. This debate focuses on two issues: the proposal to add the participation statement as a new part to the integration exam, and the legal obligation to provide social support for citizens. In addition, of course, the report of the General Court of Auditors dated a few weeks ago on the evaluation of the existing Law on Integration is also around. This report is and was a blow to the face of anyone who hopes that integration will go well. Since the introduction of the Integration Act in 2013, the number of people who pass the integration exam has fallen dramatically: from over 80% first to only about 39% now. That's a huge drop. The question is why the Minister has not intervened before. Why does he only now come up with adjustments to the proposals that we are discussing today? Does he consider these adjustments sufficient in the light of that report? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In view of the disastrous figures, is it not irresponsible for the Minister to maintain the principle of the citizen's own responsibility in the legislative amendment he proposes? Will this not lead to devastating figures again? I'd like to hear why the Minister has that confidence now. Those who want to build a new life here obviously have their own responsibility to do so. However, it is too naive to think than newcomers who, for example, are not powerful in the Dutch language and who certainly don't know the way to public institutions, will settle it for a while. If you go through that line, is it not irresponsible to continue to rely on the principle of self-responsibility, especially given the great importance and the great social urgency of integration? At the moment, this is one of the biggest social themes in our country. If you see where we have now ended up in the Netherlands with the people who enter our country through labour migration or family reunification or an asylum application, is it not a matter for policy areas to be merged in a subsequent cabinet? Isn't it time for a separate ministry for migration? Now one is running behind the COA, the other is getting settled in there and the municipalities are getting picked again. Then we see again through the forest the trees no longer. Wouldn't it be much wiser to merge these policy areas into another cabinet? How does the Minister view this in the light of his experience? After all, he also has to do with other rulers. Let us be honest, in the end the picture is that reception is rather chaotic and the figures on integration in recent years speak volumes. I'm coming to the participation statement. According to the Minister's previous answers, European legislation on the free movement of persons makes it almost impossible to impose the process of the participation declaration also on EU migrants and, for example, Turkish migrants. Is it not unacceptable, especially in view of the current developments in Turkey and the developments in the Netherlands last summer, to extend this regulation to include, for example, Turkish migrants? The Minister writes that it is not a realistic possibility. In my opinion, politics is still trying to take a next step. Doesn't he see any possibility of realizing that? In this context, we have recently heard the Minister say that he wants to limit labour migration within the European Union. That is very sensible and it is a good proposal. If you are critical of this migration, does this mean that the integration and the pathways that are being set up will also apply to EU migrants such as Romanians and Bulgarians? They were first told that they would hardly come to the Netherlands, but recent figures from the CBS show the opposite. The participation statement focuses on knowledge and awareness of the Dutch core values and participation in society. In what way does the Minister expect active participation in society to be achieved through such a declaration? Can he give examples of this? One of the things that many are talking about with disappointment is that we no longer actively stimulate dual pathways, which means combining integration with work, education or social participation. Shouldn't we go back there? I have just mentioned this in Mr Van Meenen's speech; should we not make much more sure that integration is a public task? Maybe we should take on fewer people, but let us take on them rather than leave them to their fate in vulnerable neighbourhoods. So isn't that what's ahead of us a little too non-committal? Shouldn't we be looking for integration, which the Minister should perhaps address in the light of his political background, where it is simply a public task and we should not leave it to all kinds of offices and municipalities who are all going to work on a declaration of participation? How does the Minister view this? How do we get any uniformity in that? I can imagine that a municipality with one political preference will expect something different than a municipality with another political preference. We already have a party here talking about the Republic of Amsterdam. What does that statement look like compared to the statement in the Barneveld municipality? Can we expect uniformity in this participation statement? I'm rounding up. We in New Roads currently feel that this bill, even if it is well-intentioned, is totally inadequate for the problems we face in terms of migration and integration. In our view, it is much more of a public task. We need to get around people. We can set limits and an exact number will never be mentioned, but for us, we prefer less good than leaving too much to their fate, and that also applies in vulnerable neighbourhoods. That is why we have not yet come to the conclusion that what is now before us is the answer we need to give, especially as we are on the eve of a new cabinet, where, as far as we are concerned, we need a more comprehensive approach, starting with a new Ministry of Migration to deal with these issues at the same time and in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. This is a beautiful day. The Minister is helping our society to improve the Integration Act by extending integration education with the transfer of our values and giving them a place in the law. That is something that we need and we need very much, because many Dutch people are very worried about a threatening loss of identity, of our way of life. Many people are afraid that groups of immigrants will become so dominant that they will lose our freedom, equality and brotherhood. Many Dutch people with a migration background also need guidance. Born and raised in the Netherlands, they wonder when their environment thinks they are sufficiently integrated. When are they sufficiently integrated in the eyes of their fellow Dutch people? The Minister answers that question for clarity with this declaration of participation. It's new. For the first time, citizens now also receive education in our values. So far we have asked the newcomers to do practical things, to learn the language and to learn about society and to find a job. Now we're also going to find the connection in emotional issues. Connection I said, because the strength of our values is that they are universal. We are thinking first of all about freedom, equality and brotherhood. We have indeed done a great deal of work here on freedom, equality and brotherhood, but these values are being pursued all over the world. Unfortunately, they are often violated. That is why people are fleeing to the West, where freedom, equality and solidarity are the guiding principles. Now we have a minister who puts the finger on this. He points the finger at the need for our society to firmly establish our values and provide clarity for our newcomers, embedded in the law that provides newcomers with integration pathways. With the declaration of participation, we make it clear to citizens that we want more than to build a practical relationship of material decent living, working and learning. We want to enter into an emotional relationship. We ask the citizens to develop love for our freedom, equality and brotherhood and to defend them themselves for others, for gays, Jews and Muslims, for women, apostates of faith, and for all those who think otherwise. We ask the citizens to sign for this, right at the beginning of the integration process. This is the guidance for everything that comes after it. I conclude that the Minister is doing three things here that will help us move forward together. Firstly, cultural values. The Minister acknowledges the need for cultural transfer alongside the transfer of practical knowledge. Secondly, the hold. With the signing of the declaration, the Minister provides guidance. Citizens know what participation means. Their environment knows what we ask of the inhabitants of the Netherlands, namely the defence of freedom, equality and brotherhood, also for those who think differently. Thirdly, the position of the municipalities. By including the Statement of Participation in the Act, municipalities can, from their new role, strengthen their integration policies into a form appropriate for specific groups in specific neighbourhoods or municipalities. They get the budget for that too. The declaration of participation has been successful as citizens accept and respect the principle that we give others the freedom that we ourselves get. We need that clarity, newcomers and established Dutch people, in these uncertain times when many fear a progressive extremism and there are problematic behaviors of hopeless illegals. That's the theory. It has been practically tried in 11 municipalities. Can the Minister tell us which pilots have worked best and why? Signing the participation declaration is an important moment with a high memory value. I myself have memories of the signature I put under my letter to Her Majesty. I wrote as a young boy, just turned 18, to the queen to ask her if I could become Dutch. In addition to the process of values, the law regulates something important: the social support of the citizens. This is the second major improvement to be made with this integration law. The municipalities accompany the citizens with double effort. That's what it turns out to be necessary. The extension of the time limit for the diploma alone requires a lot of bureaucratic skills. An extension is often necessary because the address of the school is unknown as long as the citizen waits in the asylum-seekers centre until the municipalities comply with their agreement on accommodation. The new address can be in Staphorst, but also in Spijkenisse. The Minister has managed to resist the temptation to turn the current system upside down. This will enable us to start without delay. With one point: to give solid ground to the value path for citizens in the municipalities. This first phase of integration education should be like a home. Secondly, there must be a double effort in the social support of citizens. Third: please arrange the agreed accommodation in good time, so that waiting citizens no longer get blamed for study delay and are relieved of threatening fines. It is our social mission to ensure clarity and continuity. Where it is clear what we expect from each other, there is harmony and stability. Where there is harmony and stability, people invest there. Whoever brings harmony and stability and trust, like the minister, makes the Netherlands stronger and richer. But those who bring chaos and fear, those who push us against each other, those who want to radicalise us or isolate us, make the Netherlands poor and shabby. We don't want that. I myself look forward to the next improvement in the value-education learning line. I insist that citizens gain compelling experiences from organisations such as the COC, the Anne Frank House or the House of Representatives, which offer eye-openers that all people, however different they may be, share the same values. In this way, we are gradually achieving a living democracy, not with reorganisation, but with blood, sweat and tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	I'm wondering something. Mr Marcouch says that he sees the moment of this declaration of participation as an important moment, but what is it going to do for the citizen and for the government? What is the real result of the forced signing of such a declaration of participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	I really see this compulsion and sanctioning as an extreme, like some kind of stick behind the door. Actually, I don't see anyone saying, "I don't want to settle in." We provide clarity. We offer a process of integration in which not only language and knowledge of society, but also the values that we politicians often talk about. As far as I am concerned, it will mean that people become part of our society much faster and more effectively. I want to use a metaphor. People in their diversity drive at speed on the highway. There are all kinds of rules and there's an entry strip for the newcomers. They must make some extra effort. They have to have a level to be able to insert without accidents. This requires knowledge of expectations etc. Of course, it also requires courtesy from those who are already on that highway. That's what I'm thinking. People need to be as flexible and safe as possible and then able to participate fully in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	I asked a question about the statement and I got an answer about the route. My question was about having to sign the declaration. Mr Marcouch himself is quite right to say that most of the people are simply eager to integrate. So that doesn't require that explanation. What is the real reason for this declaration of participation? Or does Mr Marcouch say with GroenLinks that we can abandon this declaration of participation? I'd say that's the best I could do. I hope that Mr Marcouch will sign my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	No, we shouldn't let that one down. I congratulate the Minister on the fact that, for the first time, we are clarifying the values that we are constantly talking about and which we consider important. Those citizens, these new Dutch people, are entitled to that. They should not read and hear in the vague newspapers about values, values, values without any clarity. With that statement, you'll be clear. It is a service to the new Dutch: this is what we consider important in this society. If you internalize that, it only makes inserting easier and faster. The better people will be involved in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	I would find it very special if someone came to my door and said, "I am here to provide you with a service, and if you do not take it away, you will be fined." That is the service Mr Marcouch is talking about. Anyway, that aside. Mr Marcouch pretends that the declaration of participation at last gives us some thought to the values that we all consider important, the Constitution and all of them. The integration process is aimed at knowledge of Dutch society and one of the main topics is "political and Constitution." That's what this is about. What does this, apart from that statement, all add to the ordinary integration and the integration exam in which you show that you know those values?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	I understand that Mr Van Meenen finds it complicated to make a difference between what standards are and what values are. Of course we have legislation and, of course, it contains our standards. We make these laws here every week. This is another one of those laws, in which we try to establish a standard. By sticking to that standard, you strive for and build on a value. Of course, everyone has to take note of our legislation, but of course there are values below that. That is what we say to these people: that it is so stable and so harmonious and that everyone can be themselves has not only to do with what is in the law but also with what kind of society we are and want to be. And that society is characterized by these values. I think it is good that you say to people in concrete terms: these are those values. At D66 you have to guess. One time it could be this and the other time it could be. The Minister says: we will not let you guess, because we do not have time; you are too important. That's what I mean by "service." That sanction is, of course, intended to show that it is not non-binding. It is not without obligation, not even for Mr Van Meenen and me. It is important that you provide insight into what ultimately holds society together and what you expect from new people. I think it's only fair that you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	I think it's working the other way around. Legislation is ultimately the confirmation of what you have in a country of values. That's what you're gonna lay down in a law. That's how it works and not the other way around. It is not that we say: we have a law here and we derive certain values from it. No, not at all! This is not how legislation works, because it is always lagging behind what that society is. Not for nothing is the Constitution and are those laws... We are now in the Chamber discussing whether or not homosexuality becomes part of Article 1. That is a fundamental discussion, but it follows the debate in society. It is not about: we never talked about homosexuality; you know what: we are in the law and then we see if we can achieve tolerance in the Netherlands. No, it works the other way around! We are already a country that has values. That was also the reason for my question to Mr Marcouch, but I do not want to go into detail about the difference between standards and values. We have an integration process and a part of it is getting acquainted with Dutch society. Politics is included and all these considerations are made in politics. Our values and possibly the collision of values are also included. The Constitution is in that too. What does the participation path add to that? If there are elements that still need to be appointed, shouldn't they just be part of the normal integration process? Why does it have to be separate now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	I think that's what the Minister's doing. He's gonna make it part of the integration law, and we're gonna hear about it later. I think that's the idea. Of course, things like knowledge of Dutch society are included in the integration offer. This adds the foundations to what is offered in it. Mr Van Meenen of D66 says that it should be the result of a broad social debate and a wide-sensed need in society, as with homosexuality. I am really asking myself where Mr Van Meenen has been, because the debate on what our values are and what people have to meet has been going on for about 15 years, at least 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mr. Chairman. Can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	Just a question, not another whole argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	We can have a whole discussion of values here, but we have an integration process. It's in there, and we're gonna finish it with an exam. You're gonna pass that exam or you're not gonna. If you make it, you will also have knowledge of all those values and standards offered in that trajectory. Why can't we do it enough? Why does a separate statement have to be made? That's my question in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	You see it as a statement, but I see it as clarifying the values that we consider important. In regular education, for example, we also have citizenship education. This is about citizenship. What values do we defend for each other? What do we think is important in society together? The Minister gave that clarity in this statement. I see it as a part, not only of integration, but also of citizenship: that I defend your freedom as you defend mine, even though we are different in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	Mr Marcouch presented the declaration of participation as a service towards citizens. It's a service, it's a reciprocal thing. That's true, too, if you see the results of the pilots. Municipalities say: we find this very useful, because we get in touch, because we know who lives in our municipality; we have doubts as to whether this actually contributes to integration. The internalisation of values cannot be measured at all, the Minister himself, fortunately, writes. If this is indeed a service and becomes part of the integration process, which should lead to people finally getting their exams, why do you threaten at the outset with an even higher fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	I don't see that as a threat. If you consider integration important, if you as a society consider it important to internalize and embrace those values, then it should not be voluntary. Once again, in many agreements, we have a sanction behind the door, but you pretend it is a condition for integration. Because of this sanction, people know that this is not without obligation, but very serious. You just asked the colleague of the CDA whether that sanction is necessary for integration or not. I don't know anyone who doesn't want to settle in. In the end, it's about giving citizens clarity, explaining why we think these values are important and making them sign such an explanation. It does not need to be sanctioned at all. On the contrary, we want people to participate as quickly as possible, and that is what the refugees generally want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mr Marcouch can take it very lightly, but there is already a system of sanctions for integration. He's gonna double-sanction, which is a double suspicion. He knows that as well as I do. If he had the choice, would he choose that double penalty? Or is he going to maintain and stick to the existing system of sanctions? Mr Marcouch himself says that he has no example of people avoiding or avoiding it. Does he consider a double penalty necessary for citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u127	I'm from the politics of trust and connection. Mr Karabulut is constantly talking about a sanction. It's just part of the law. It is not a non-binding appointment; integration is not without obligation. The effort to acquire those values is not without obligation either. We'll take care of that in this law. I think it is essential that this law finally regulates what values we think are important and that we clarify to those new Dutch people. They have a right to that. That's why I see that as a way of embracing, encircling, instead of letting people just swim in the vague. People hear politicians, other administrators every time, or others in society say: they must embrace our values! Yeah, what are those values? What this Minister is doing is to clarify that. He's offering that, too. That's what we sign up for, and then everybody gets to work. That's what we want. Mrs. Karabulut pretends we're out to punish people. That's suspicion and mistrust. The commitment is to integrate people and make them part of society. That's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u128	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u129	I would like to conclude on this point by saying that the longer Mr Marcouch speaks, the more unbelievable he becomes. If the system were to rely on trust, you wouldn't do this with a rattling system, where language lessons aren't even in order. Mr Marcouch is indeed one of those politicians who talks about values and impose an additional fine, while people do not even understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u130	That was not a question, but Mr Marcouch may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u131	I was a local administrator in the previous period, when there was another system. I've also seen how the quality was below the mark, I've also seen how long people had to be on a waiting list, when they really wanted to settle in. So that old system wasn't easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u132	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u133	I would like to ask Mr Karabulut what I have already asked for in connection with the interruption. I think it is important that we make sure that integration and integration education get better here every day. That's the focus. With Mrs Karabulut, for example, I would like public schools to be given more role in the future. But now all these people are getting settled, there are no waiting lists and the quality is generally good. Yeah, there's bunnies, we can do better. But we're not gonna put all these people on hold right now and then turn everything upside down and make a new system. Then in a few years' time we will be back with people who have been waiting here for years and have not been able to settle in, because Mrs Karabulut wanted a system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u134	That is exactly what my second question to Mr Marcouch was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u135	Now, just keep it short. Ask a question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u136	I'll be brief. I'm tired of talking about integration, too. I share Mr Marcouch's view that we must act quickly. That is why the SP has prepared a practical amendment with GroenLinks and D66. We are not asking for a whole system change in that. But we propose whatever municipalities, the VNG and Mr Marcouch's own alderman here in The Hague are advocating. They ask: give us the direction. They ask: give us the direction and make sure that the people who offer language lessons, including the private providers, are just properly monitored. I believe that this can certainly count on the support of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u137	That's exactly what this law regulates. I therefore hope that if Mr Karabulut really thinks that the municipalities should be directed, she will support this bill and vote in favour of it. Then that's what we're gonna do. I would therefore ask my colleague from the SP to vote in favour of this amendment in particular, because then we will settle it and then there will be money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u138	This bill is not going to settle that. The said parties will take care of it, in an amendment. My question to Mr Marcouch was: does he support that amendment? The answer of the Labour Party is apparently no at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u139	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u140	No, it's not okay yet, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause this isn't right. This bill is the result of a long collaboration with municipalities and of an agreement with municipalities. It is, of course, also being implemented by additional means. The Minister now arranges that citizens can be sure that there are sufficient resources to accompany them in that integration. That is what is regulated in this legislative amendment, even after the elections. And that's important to those burgers. This amendment then regulates that people are also accompanied and that municipalities are given a greater role in determining how people integrate into our society and integrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u141	I don't want to take anything away from what is regulated in this legislative amendment, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u142	Then vote in favour of it, I ask my colleague from the SP. That's when we do good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u143	If Mr Marcouch is going to tell his own truth here, of course we are not getting anywhere. Then we can stop this debate. I recognise that this legislative amendment regulates social guidance and formalises what municipalities are already doing. However, Mr Marcouch must have the honesty to admit that this is not the direction of the municipalities. They need that direction in order to actually offer those broad integration pathways. That is what our amendment does regulate, together with supervision by the education inspector. In view of the programme and the wishes of Mr Marcouch over the past period, I would have expected support. There is no such support. I'm sorry to hear that. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u144	I conclude that Mr D66 and Mr Karabulut want a completely different system. We are not in favour of that at the moment. What we are in favour of is that people should be well supervised, which is regulated by this law, and that municipalities should be given an active role. So I would say to Mr Karabulut: if you do not get it 100% as you want, then let us not go towards zero results, because that is what you are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, our country has experienced a large influx of asylum seekers. Last year there was a peak, of which we all saw the consequences for our society. In a distant past, many of these people came to our country to live in freedom, something they lacked in their country of origin. They found a place in our country where they had the freedom to choose their own faith or not to believe. In recent decades, people have also come to our country for other reasons: for war in their country of origin or for economic reasons. These people don't all automatically embrace the values our country stands for. That puts these values and our free society under pressure. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of this recently. The VVD therefore does not find it strange that people wonder whether this Netherlands, with all its achievements and freedoms, for which generations have fought, is also preserved for future generations. We are also concerned about whether the Netherlands risks losing its identity by receiving large groups of migrants with different cultural standards and values. I cannot say it often enough: integration of large groups of newcomers with a different cultural pattern of standards and values is difficult, if not impossible, because they often do not integrate, which means that society is mostly segregating. Clearly, the way in which integration policies have been designed over the past few decades has not worked. This was mainly due to the theory that integration had to come from two sides, that the newcomer had to be left in its value and that the host society had to be prepared to move and adapt. That is, in short, the way in which a left-wing part of this Chamber is being heard by a number of parties who are saying again today that we should be dealing with newcomers. But that policy has proven to have failed. As far as the VVD is concerned, it certainly shouldn't be like that anymore. This does not mean that we are calling for a division in society, which other parties in this Chamber sometimes stand for, which wants to enhance our sense of belonging in society. I don't think so. This political opportunism only damages the strength and stability of our society. And no one is waiting for a cramped, scared and hostile society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u146	Mrs. Karabulut, you want to interrupt again. From now on, everyone will have a maximum of two interruptions. Really, this is way too far. You will now have the interruption, but we will now limit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u147	Okay. Did I hear Mr Azmani correctly? Did he say that the left-wing parties are responsible for the failed integration policy? That cannot be true, because it is the VVD, which has been responsible for integration policy for the longest time in all these years. I am pleased that Mr Azmani acknowledges that it has failed, but I would also like to hear his responsibility back instead of playing the ball on the left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u148	Then Mrs Karabulut did not hear me correctly. It is a part of the left-wing parties who say again today that it has to come from two sides and that as a host society you should also be prepared to take steps back and turn your achievements in favour of newcomers. That's what the VVD is resisting. That is the dream of the multicultural society that everyone is keen on. We need to pierce that balloon, and I think we did the same thing to each other. This does not ultimately lead to the successful integration of newcomers, which we all benefit from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u149	Sure. This policy involved: integrating with the preservation of their own identity; letting people live apart from each other and letting them create their own pillar. I'm glad the VVD got off that. But the VVD recognizes, recognizes and still supports individual freedom within the framework of the law, based on the universal value of human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u150	Sure, of course. Liberals are promoting the freedom of the individual. You must be able to be free, as long as you do not enter into the freedom of another; absolutely. But it's mostly about the honest story. The preservation of one's own culture and identity does not work. The story that our receiving Dutch society would be willing to take a step back, I do not think. Nor would I expect this society to take a step backwards from newcomers. It is up to the newcomers to adapt to our society and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u151	I do not think anyone here has argued that society should take a step back. In fact, I believe that a number of groups, including my group, have just said that society should take a step forward. We should just state: this is what we all stand for and this is what you can expect from the government. At least that has been indicated by my group. If Mr Azmani says that, according to some groups, society must take a step backwards, I would like to hear from him which group has said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u152	If you no longer want to talk about integration but about mutual acceptance and when you no longer talk about integration policy but about acceptance policy, you focus on preserving a part of your own cultural identity in this society. You may be free in your private environment, but that will not work in the public domain. It will only slow down and promote segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u153	I'm hearing another fact that doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u154	Well, it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u155	What group has said that there should be an acceptance policy? I have not heard any of the groups who have spoken so far say that. The VVD here suggests untruths and then reacts to them. It would be very nice if the VVD could debate on the basis of facts. The VVD and GroenLinks think very differently about a number of things, but let's stick to the facts. Then we can have an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u156	I would like to point out to Mrs Voortman that she should listen to her colleagues better. It is not for nothing that Mr Öztürk is now standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u157	My first question to Mr Azmani is: why do you still need to integrate? You are a son of a Moroccan father and a Dutch mother. Why do you need to integrate? Why does someone from this room still have to integrate? We say integration is for newcomers. Those born and raised here want to be accepted. You also want to be accepted, with your Moroccan father and Dutch mother. You want to be accepted. We say mutual acceptance. We must accept each other within our Constitution. That's what we say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u158	I hear very well "mutual acceptance" again. Mutual acceptance of what? Of course, the freedom of the individual must be mutually accepted; we do not differ. You do not want to discuss the word 'integration policy' anymore. Of course, other cultures must be accepted. That's okay. But it works like this in Dutch society and so you should also address yourself to newcomers that you need to acquire the leading cultural capital in the Netherlands as soon as possible if you want to be able to successfully participate in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u159	We also want people in the Netherlands to accept the Limburg culture, don't we? We also want people to accept that there is carnival in Limburg and that you are doing something else in Friesland? That's what we want, isn't it? Everyone wants to be accepted. The most important thing is that we can live together within our laws and regulations, and that is where all these people live together. But you are trying to create second-class citizens by working with the PVV. You give the impression that a group of people does not want to adapt to Dutch standards and values. No! People want to be accepted within the laws and regulations they have. You also want to be accepted as you are. Let's go for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u160	I think I wanted to be honest here with the newcomer and what society expects of this newcomer. In the beginning, therefore, you make it very clear what the norms and values are, what the freedoms are, that one has to learn the language quickly and that one has to participate in this society through work, work. That must be very clear and clear. Within the integration policy, you know two currents. One movement says very clearly and normatively what you need to measure in order to actually participate in society. The other movement says it has to come from two sides: the receiving society should accept other cultures. But I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr Azmani and the VVD would like newcomers to learn about our rule of law and our rights, as we have translated them into laws. But how does Mr Azmani react to yesterday's research report by the Dutch Bar Association, which states that the programme of the VVD is directly contrary to the rule of law and also to certain human rights in a number of respects? In fact, the VVD wants, for example, that human rights in international conventions no longer have an automatic effect in the Netherlands. How's that newcomer supposed to take that? Is that the new standard with which he has to declare his agreement? How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u162	We can have a very different debate on a kind of "campaign advice" from the Dutch Lawyers' Order and on what direction she herself gives it. I also see reports that whoever drafted that opinion has political lines with people who have actually been here in the Chamber. I am therefore not surprised that she places a number of parties in a particular place. I'm a lawyer myself, but law isn't black or white. Straight is a grey area that you can shape. I see that in this opinion of the Dutch Order of Lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u163	Just for clarity and then on that one point, namely the international conventions and the rights that result from them for people. Does the VVD say in its programme that they should not automatically enter into force in the Netherlands? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u164	When it comes to international treaties and when you talk sec about migration... What I'm linking to that when it comes to successful integration policy... is that you also have to take a step in your immigration policy. Within the treaties as they are now, you can already offer solutions to this. But I also point out that, if you look at the future, treaties on that point should be adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr Azmani continues? No, apparently it's Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u166	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I should have been a little faster. We have recently made interesting comparisons between integration and assimilation during the general consultation on integration. Mr Öztürk mentioned that integrating "sugar that dissolves in tea" would be, but perhaps that would be more assimilating. Mr De Graaf spoke about inserting cars on the highway. He called it assimilation, which is perhaps more integrated. He was right to add that this only concerns the zipper. Mr Azmani just outlined that there are two views on integration. One is that responsibility lies primarily with the people themselves. In the other would be reciprocity; something the VVD would not be of. But I'm a little surprised. That reciprocity is there anyway, isn't it? After all, there is a system of integration. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to have an integration system at all. If you're talking about zippers on the highway, the primary responsibility lies with the one who inserts, but the highway must also give the space to insert. Surely, even in the vision of the VVD, reciprocity is needed in an integration and integration system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u167	Yes, but if Mr Heerma wants to use that symbolism, it is not that the cars that were already driving there should change colour. It has not so much to do with the integration process as we know it now. I'm talking about scientific visions on integration. There are two currents in it: a more left-wing movement, I notice that some parties do not want to be told, but I do sometimes hear it in the speeches of people who say: welcome newcomers, but as a host society you must also be prepared to take steps back, to make concessions, to achieve maximum society. On the one hand. On the other hand, there is a movement that says: we have a number of norms and values with each other and you have to make them your own if you want to participate fully in this society, so accept them. So you have two currents in that whole integration policy. I taste that in the past we have also had a little bit of that thought is that as a receiving society you must be prepared to make concessions. Then I say: as a VVD we are not prepared to make those concessions. It is not the case that the host society should adapt to newcomers. That is what Mr Heerma should think. Newcomers must adapt to the receiving society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u168	That last one's all nice. Mr Azmani sketches two streams, while there are more. Old-VVD'er and former Minister Verdonk is critical of the system as it currently exists, while it does not automatically fall into the category of leftist movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u169	But that's on integration...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u170	Well, there are many different visions possible. It is important that, as far as I am concerned, it is not a question of throwing away our values and values or our values and traditions. That's not true. At the same time, there is a responsibility for society to give space. This is also included in the social support in the legislative proposal before us. I suppose the VVD supports that part of the bill, too. That was not clear from the words Mr Azmani just chose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u171	I'm not ready for my input, Mr. Chairman. You will understand that because of the many interruptions that are taking place. It's two separate things. It's an academic discussion: how do you deal with newcomers and how does your integration policy work? There's a lot written about that. In the past we have once invited people in the Chamber to discuss this. How do you deal with an integration exam for a sec? Is there a role for the government? How big is that part? How great is the responsibility of the individual? With the existing integration law we say: self-responsibility is primary; self-reliance. Of course, as a government you facilitate and inform what you expect from people. I think that's how the law is implemented. That also means drawing conclusions when people do not want to burgeon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u172	Mr Öztürk, that will be the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr President, this is only my second interruption. I assume that the number of interruptions by others does not affect my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u174	You are present now, and the Chamber appreciates that, but this will be your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u175	I will correct Mr Heerma's contribution. He said salt in the tea. In general, I put sugar in the tea. When you put sugar in the tea, there is no assimilation, but the tea gets better. Tea with sugar gets better. I ask Mr Azmani: why such a crampedness? Maintaining certain cultures and traditions, while almost everything in society automatically changes. I'll see you at the member's restaurant for delicious Moroccan tajine food. We often have activities here where I see you going with the changing society, but when I see you here, in front of the camera, you're cramped about culture and traditions. Society's already changed. Accept that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u176	Eating habits don't seem like an argument for telling me how you deal with newcomers. I think we might be pursuing the same goal, but we think differently about the way we do. You want the newcomers you allow in the Netherlands to participate successfully in society. It takes much more than is initially thought. Actually, that's my own experience. The preservation of one's own culture can be fine, but in the public domain it does work that way that you have the social codes of a society. How do you deal with each other? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That means you can take steps in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u177	What does the VVD think, what does Mr Azmani think about the fact that research shows that 40% of Turkish and Moroccan Dutch people no longer feel at home? That has been the policy of Rutte and Asscher in recent years. This kind of language and the PVV chasing a bit to bring in seats means that millions of people in the Netherlands no longer feel at home. This behavior is purely to get seats, to stand out a little bit and to show out "Look how we can bully migrants, people with a migrant's arrival." Don't you wear by doing this kind of language that millions of people no longer feel at home in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u178	No, absolutely not. As a liberal, I am in favour of maximum self-development and upliftment of people. That's why I'm so in it the way I am. I'm not for soft healers, because soft healers make stinky wounds. So you better be clear to newcomers about how society works here and what you expect from them. Then there is the 40%. This has everything to do with a failing integration policy from the past. We have already talked about this with the preservation of one's own culture and identity and the consequences that this sometimes has for people from second and third generations. They can't come in this country. You'd like to keep them in that cocoon of their own cultural identity. As a result, they always run into the fact that they do not have a maximum chance in society. I'm trying to make sure these people can take those steps. Sometimes you might have to run a little faster, but that helps more than go crying in a corner somewhere and feel discriminated against. Discrimination's got to be tough on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u179	You want them all to be submissive! You want submissive people in society!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u180	No, absolutely not. I want people in this country to be able to make the most of themselves. I want people to feel like a full-fledged citizen in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr Azmani continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u182	As is well known, the VVD's commitment to asylum is twofold. We want to accommodate as many people as possible in our own region, so that the group that comes here is small and manageable. If you have no control over the number of people you allow and who you allow into your territory, then you can integrate what you want and organize your policy as you wish, but then one does not integrate, but segregates. It'll just get harder. We think it's perfectly normal that you do your best to participate when you settle in another country. The receiving society will help you with that, too. This new integration system entered into force in 2013. In April of this year, the first results of the enlisters under this new system became visible. It appeared that half of the part cohort from 2013, as it is called in jargon, was established in October 2016. We already knew that, because the Minister has already informed us. The report of the Court of Auditors did not bring much news on this point either. Of course, the figures are disappointing, but the report itself states that you cannot talk about a trend, because it is only the first half of 2013, which could only be measured and assessed in 2016. With regard to these disappointing figures, the Minister also has a responsibility. As I indicated in the general discussion earlier, the Minister on the front has not sufficiently maintained the new system, including the three-year period. To all the parties who are calling for us to return to the old law, that is what we have heard in the last few hours during interruptions, and that we must put the responsibility for integration back with the municipalities, who are then jumping again to take on this task for an extra bag of taxpayers' money, I say, please look back. It's not that long ago. Mr Marcouch has already mentioned it in his other role as director. Do you remember that picture of those empty classes? Citizens just didn't show up because they weren't motivated. It didn't have any consequences either. It wasn't their money either. Remember? Most of those who had been dealt with and succeeded with great difficulty by municipal officials also ended up returning home with a payment on the bank. So the language level went down again and no one came through. See also the report of the General Court. The most important and alarming observation in this report is that most of the legislation of 2007, the old law that so many people crave, does not participate successfully in the form of paid employment or training. My question is then: is that really where the system you want to go back to? At least the VVD doesn't want that. The integration exam is not an end in itself but an instrument to promote active participation in our society. The VVD wants a system that revolves around participation. This is clearly not a system in which the government is primarily responsible and the final goal is to pass the integration exam. It is not normal for taxpayers, the hard-working Dutchman, to bear the costs of the integration of newcomers. It is normal that we teach newcomers to become self-reliant in this country. 'Cause that's the Netherlands. Of course, as has already been said, we will help them with the necessary information in advance, but newcomers will eventually have to do it themselves. If they do not, then we must not shy away from turning our backs on them, because those who do not want to settle in turn turn their backs on our society. I'm here to talk about the change of law. The VVD endorses the objective of the participation declaration, namely that newcomers show their commitment to Dutch society and declare their willingness to actively contribute to it. That's also a noble ambition, but signing a piece of paper doesn't make you part of our society. That's what you become by learning the language, by knowing our habits, by getting to work by working or volunteering for my part. In short, you become part of society by actually participating, by participating in our society. You do this not by standing with one leg in your country of origin, but by wanting to become a full Dutchman. You do that by striving to quickly build your own life and not be dependent on social services. When he took office in 2012, the Statement of Participation was a concrete plan on the integration agenda presented by the Minister. The VVD has been critical at that time for a reason and has already indicated that it cannot stay here. We must also draw conclusions from the failure to comply with the declaration of participation. I am pleased that the Minister has met us on this issue in the form of an administrative fine. But what about enforcement in the general sense of the Integration Act? I know that the Minister has issued a series of fines, but is it not also true that if people are actually reluctant to settle in, but you cannot have any legal consequences, for example in the case of refugees, there should be a reduction in the amount of assistance? I wonder what the situation is. I agree with Mr Heerma on this point. The VVD has argued in favour of a participation or participation. a work module as a final part of the integration examination. The Minister finally filled it out as a vocational orientation module. The VVD would like to see a genuinely active contribution to society through paid work or voluntary work, which can benefit our society, before passing the integration exam. Only if you actively contribute to society can you talk about successful integration. Taking an integration exam is not an end in itself, but an instrument to actively contribute and become part of our society. I would like a response from the Minister. I'm rounding up. It is not wrong in itself to remind newcomers at an early stage of the integration process of our core values and to allow them to endorse them. In terms of effectiveness, I continue to question major issues, especially if the signing of the declaration was seen as an end in itself. As has already been said, signing such a declaration does not say anything about the real intention of the newcomer. We measure them in compliance with the declaration and in making a real contribution to our society. Not words, but deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u183	I've got three members on the Interrupt Microphone. That will be their last, in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u184	Then Mr Öztürk will have to do without interruptions from GroenLinks, President. Mr Azmani has serious doubts about the effectiveness of the declaration of participation. That is exactly the point that GroenLinks makes. The explanation is not effective because you cannot see a signature or anyone actually wants to participate. Then why does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u185	I shall leave it to the debate as well. I can tell by the interruptions. As some parties place more interruptions, I am further strengthened by the participation declaration. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is dus maar net hoe het debat wordt gevoerd.]] I am curious to see how firmly the Minister defends this declaration of participation and I am also curious to hear his answers to the questions raised. In my contribution, I indicated that it is not wrong to point out once again what values the Netherlands stands for in terms of freedom, equality and solidarity, what is being put into practice and what is expected of a newcomer. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister says that consequences are linked to the failure to sign a declaration of participation. Otherwise it would indeed be an empty thing, but I await the Minister's reply. I can imagine that this particular point is part of an evaluation of this law, should this bill be adopted and implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u186	That is a very long answer which shows once again that Mr Azmani has doubts about its effectiveness. In a clause, he says that he imposes a fine for not signing the participation declaration. I'm fine with that, but you can get that fine even if you don't cooperate with people. It's already been recorded. What is the added value of signing this declaration of participation? That's just double-up, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u187	No. In my view, it is the intention of this minister that the municipalities should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves how they point this out to people once again. Sometimes it's not even "again." Some people, for example, are still in an early stage of the integration process or have not taken an integration exam abroad but have been admitted here as asylum seekers. They've had a bit of pre-integration. If such a person is in a certain municipality, that municipality can establish a route. That could be a course or a meeting with others. It's up to the city to fill that out. That's what the Minister wants. Someone can then document in a statement that he is willing to accept the values and actively contribute to society. That's how I understand the Minister's bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u188	Should we not simply create a completely different system? We let people wander around in this country for three years; they can do what they want and sometimes they get nine hours of language lessons. After those three years, it is a bit wasted that they should sign something for which they are likely to have fled. They were threatened; there was war or violence. They come here and experience the opposite for perhaps three years. Wouldn't it be much better for people who want to come here, for example through a UNHCR camp or through an agreement at European level, to sign such a declaration first? Someone who does not sign this statement may be on the run from something, but is also willing to make life impossible for others. They will then be strictly interviewed and tested. Should we not tell people that they do not belong in the Netherlands at all if they are not prepared to sign this declaration? Wouldn't that be a much better system? There are a lot of refugees in the world. That's tragic enough. Unfortunately, we cannot accept everyone, but let us ensure that the people we receive say in advance that they respect our standards and values. Now the horse gets tense behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u189	Mr Monasch probably knows the discussion that took place in the Labour Party when he was still in that group. In 2015, I made a proposal that the Labour Party Group considered totally unacceptable in the first instance. Because European policy has become, you can already see the turn of events: people can no longer automatically apply for asylum and stay here after illegal entry. They will then be returned, in this case to Turkey. So you get much more out of a model in which people are invited, where you have control over the numbers and who you allow. Indeed, I think this is an important anchor for successful integration. After all, immigration and integration cannot be seen separately from each other. If you don't have a good immigration policy, you can integrate what you want, but it won't work. So you have to implement a controlled immigration policy with a selection of integration opportunities in order to allow people to successfully integrate into society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u190	The first part of Mr Azmani's answer, I think, was a bit of a distraction from the question. I'll make it a little more concrete. A motion from me and Mr Van Vliet will be put to the vote next Tuesday. It proposes not to allow anyone who is not willing to subscribe to Article 1 and other articles of our Constitution into the asylum procedure. Is Mr Azmani, in the light of what he has just said, prepared to support this motion this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr Monasch knows this very well. He has tabled this motion before, namely to the Social Affairs and Employment budget. The Minister replied to him at the time. It is very clear how the Chamber gave its opinion on this motion at the time. This motion is legally untenable. So this isn't even possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u192	Mr Azmani referred in his term to the time when the Minister presented his integration agenda, as well as this plan; at least, the original participation contract. During the debate on this, so when discussing this proposal, a number of parties were very critical of this obligation. That's what they are again. At the time, Mr Azmani, together with the CDA, was critical because I was also critical of the CDA, because: seeing is infidelity; this must be really enforceable, it must contain rights and obligations. I think those were Mr Azmani's literal words. So it didn't just have to be symbolic. At the time, therefore, the VVD had that criticism and scepticism about this proposal. Fortunately, Mr Azmani indicated in his term that there should be consequences, so it should not be completely empty. That is a more positive attitude than some of the statements he made outside this house. But there are also a number of amendments. The SGP and CDA groups have made various proposals to amend this law, to anchor the participation declaration in the law and to increase the consequences of non-cooperation. How does the VVD Group view these amendments, from the point of view it has had from the outset, so that it should not be voluntary and really what should be proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u193	I do not know what specific amendments this is about. Perhaps you could explain that. It was quite an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u194	There are three amendments. There's two already and the third one's coming. They all have the aim of really anchoring that participation declaration in the law, or of increasing the sanctions or the consequences of refusing to participate in it. That is the second amendment: you cannot participate in the loan system if you refuse to sign. This is in line with the approach chosen by the VVD from the beginning, so that this should not be non-binding and that there should be consequences. How does the VVD view these amendments from that angle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u195	I will assess those amendments on their merits, but I will have to read them first and see how they have been designed. I am not indifferent to this in itself, but I have to judge them all first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u196	Mr. Chairman. This is the debate on the Declaration of Participation, the Declaration of Participation. Welcome to the Netherlands!'. People must state that they want to go for freedoms, equality, solidarity and participation. I think a lot of people are behind this. But the key question is, and it has already been raised here today, whether all the parties here recognise and support the foundations of our Constitution and the rule of law. The Dutch Bar Association has reviewed the electoral programmes of all political parties. What did she see? That the right-wing parties, the VVD, the CDA, the PVV, the SGP and VNL in particular have proposals that undermine our Constitution. It is precisely these parties who are trying to undermine the foundation of society. And then they say to a newcomer: welcome to the Netherlands, but you have to meet it. I think you can call this statement different, too. The right-wing parties are working on a declaration of submissiveness, something along the lines of: you come to the Netherlands, we have an order here, we decide what happens here; and if you want to participate, you have to be a little submissive, you have to participate as we demand from you. Fortunately, we have a rule of law. In a rule of law, the law, that is, the Constitution and the agreements we make here, which someone has to comply with. And not the right-wing parties who come up with that kind of disgusting statements. But this minister is not disgusting with such a statement. This morning we talked about the Black Piet Act of the PVV. He wants to capture the color of Piet. This is how we make a mockery of ourselves every day in this Parliament, Mr President. This minister wants people to record this in a statement. When Mr Kuzu and I joined the PvdA, we also had to sign a statement. The Minister had published research results of Motivaction: 87% of Turkish Dutch would be IS supporters and 82% of Moroccan Dutch would be IS supporters. And we had to sign a declaration at the PvdA that we fully supported the Minister's approach. That's suspicious, isn't it? You get your own MPs to sign a statement, and if they don't, they have to leave the group. This minister is a minister of mistrust. Chosen parliamentarians must sign a declaration to swear a little loyalty to the minister. The rest did it; Kuzu and Öztürk didn't. DENK believes that Minister Asscher's integration policy is based far too much on mistrust. We have sometimes referred to him as Minister of Distrust and Monitoring of Minorities. DENK has a fundamentally different social image. DENK sees diversity as a force. Diversity enriches our society and gives colour to our society. Diversity is a power and a wealth. From that vision, you must approach minorities and newcomers with confidence. Invest not in distrust, but in confidence. Stop bullying and symbolism. Choose mutual acceptance instead of one-sided integration. Invest with newcomers especially in the fast learning of the Dutch language. Language is the passport for access to society. Invest in acceptance, so that people can use this passport to develop. Tonight we are talking about the Integration Act, but we could also call it the integration fiasco. Newcomers have to pay and arrange for their own integration and that costs them more than €5,000. However, they pass their exams much less than before. Minister Asscher's policy is counterproductive. Groups are just getting further away from each other. Mistrust doesn't seem to work. What does Secretary Asscher do? He continues his failing integration policy. Now he wants newcomers to sign a participation certificate, subject to a fine of €340 in the event of refusal. At the PvdA you had to leave the group if you didn't sign. You must pay €340 for the participation declaration if you do not sign it. Moreover, you will not be able to obtain a permanent residence permit and perhaps in the future you will not be able to obtain a permanent residence permit. It is as Prime Minister Rutte said in Buitenhof the other day: Asscher is loyal to our policy. In this case, therefore, that is the VVD policy. My fundamental question is why the Minister really wants this. Why does he want to give these people a hard time? Why does he lend himself to this right-wing policy? I also have a number of specific questions for the Minister on the declaration of participation. I'd like to get an answer to all these questions. Question 1. Doesn't the participation statement work stigmatizingly? Because you have people sign a fine, you pretend that a large part of the newcomers do not want to subscribe to our values. Does the Minister have any reason to believe this? Has the Minister investigated this objectively? If not, then his policy is stigmatizing and then the Minister of Integration even strengthens his own prejudices. That would be staggering, wouldn't it? Question 2. RefugeeWork The Netherlands proposes that not only the newcomers, but all the Dutch should sign the declaration. What does the Minister think of this idea? When it comes to the shared core values of this country, is it not logical that everyone should sign for them, for example when issuing a new passport at the town hall? DENK is curious how many of the 17 million Dutch people sign the core values and how many of them do not and opt for a fine of €340. RefugeeWork states that the core values of the participation declaration are by no means endorsed or respected by all Dutch. Isn't Refugee Work just right about that? What do you mean freedom of religion, if 44% of the Dutch think that Islam and the western way of life are incompatible? What do you mean equivalence, when 35% of all Dutch people have difficulty with homosexuality in public? What do you mean, equality, when women still get lower salaries for the same job than men? What's the Minister gonna do about it? How is he going to ensure that these Dutch comply with our Dutch core values? Question 3. What does the Minister think of the strong criticism of the Dutch Order of Lawyers? In fact, it says that the participation declaration is contrary to itself. The participation declaration is contrary to the core values of the Netherlands. Freedom of expression may be at stake. Freedom of thought, conscience and religion may be at stake. DENK would like a response from the Minister to all the points of criticism from the letter of the Dutch Order of Lawyers of 15 November 2016. These criticisms are also about vagueness, contradiction, the role of the municipality and the shifting boundaries of values and standards. Question 4. This question is about language. Isn't it strange to sign a participation statement if you barely speak the language? Do people even know what they're drawing? Isn't it actually a violation of the law? Do people get to see the participation statement in their own language? Or is there only the Dutch version? Otherwise, the Minister is a kind of shady insurance salesman who makes people sign for incomprehensible usury policies on the cross. It is wider than only Dutch. Isn't the language of the participation statement too abstract? Isn't it far too much an explanation for policy types rather than for ordinary men and women? The pilot evaluation says literally: for many refugees and family migrants, discussions about fundamental values are often difficult to understand. There is the danger of arbitrariness. What are the core values of the Netherlands? Who decides what the core values are? Minister Asscher and his officials, the cabinet? Isn't it a little scary that the current power formulates the core values? Isn't there selective shopping here in the Constitution? We see this selective shopping at the VVD indeed happen. The VVD does not consider solidarity to be a core value of the Netherlands. The VVD therefore prefers to take this solidarity out of the participation declaration. This not only indicates how egocentric the VVD is, this especially indicates how arbitrary the formulation of core values is. I am not even talking about the municipalities that play an important role in the declaration of participation. They will be able to put their own accents on newcomers in their information. In addition to the arbitrariness of the declaration of participation, you will then get the arbitrariness of the explanation of this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u197	I'm just gonna take a look at the selective shopping, at the core values. I was wondering if the DENK party might do the same. I ask Mr Öztürk whether it is true that the number 2 on his list was spoken on 4 February at a meeting of Islamic institutions in the Rhine-Gouwe region. Of course there is nothing wrong with that, but that meeting was only open to men. That is quite clear in the invitation. I've got it right here. Isn't that a little selective shopping too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u198	I thought the spokesman for the D66 Group would come up with something big! That meeting was organised by an external organisation. He has also indicated that things have to be different. Our candidate has contacted the ladies who would have liked to be there. That contact has already taken place. DENK stands for a society in which everyone has a place: women, men, anyone. No problem at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u199	Well, let's assume that's what we're gonna do. I am also curious to see how it has been established which women would have liked to be there. This is a matter of concern to me. I would like to tell Mr Öztürk that he should not shop selectively himself. And if he does, don't blame anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u200	If this is all D66 has been able to find on the Internet about us, then I think we really show that we do not shop selectively in this society. We really show that we stand up for everyone in this society, whether it be a man or a woman. I have just said that the pay gap between men and women in the Netherlands is too great, that we are fighting against it. Mr Van Meenen is trying to get us into a certain angle. Trust me, that's not gonna work out for him and his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u201	I'm not trying to do that either. The movement itself will do that. They don't need me for that. Of course there is much more to be found on the Internet, but we can then have a separate debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u202	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u203	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u204	Mr Öztürk, I do not understand why you are so harshly responding to Mr Van Meenen's question. You are right to raise the issue of equal treatment on a day-by-day basis. You are right to point out the importance of equal rights, but that also means accepting equal rights for all. This would include the fact that the refusal of women and the organisation of separate meetings for men, in which women are not allowed to be present, are indeed at odds with the promotion of equal rights and equality? Perhaps Mr Azarkan has done the same, but you have to go towards your supporters, because you also come in many rooms and in many mosque...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u205	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u206	You should also point out to your constituents what those equal rights are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u207	We are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u208	These include equal rights of labour and equal rights of men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u209	Mrs Karabulut also speaks in rooms where there are only women. I can show you the photos of that. Mrs Karabulut speaks in halls where there are terrorist groups. She is trying to be very democratic about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u210	Mr President, I would like to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u211	I'm not done, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut, you know Mr Azarkan very well. You know exactly how he works. You also know very well how he feels about the emancipation of women and men, but here you are trying to put DENK in a certain light. You and your colleagues will not be able to do that; understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u212	I'm asking a perfectly normal question here. Then you accuse me of doing so more often; I am getting tired of speaking in halls of terrorist organisations. If that's the case, why would I stand here? If you have proof, you'll have to file a report. If you continue to fakely accuse me, I'll make it work. We are not sitting here in the Turkish Parliament, where people can be rude and accused. We are talking about equal rights here. I support DENK in her fight for equal treatment, but that equal treatment and equal rights also mean that you respect the freedom of expression of another person. That also means that you're promoting freedom of speech everywhere. I repeat my question to you: have Mr Azarkan and you, on other occasions, expressed what equal rights are? We all know what is going on, for example when it comes to the rights of Ihbtis. There are communities where their rights are not respected. Does that contradict you? Are you saying that Ibtis also have equal rights, just as you rightly defend the rights of minorities? Those are normal questions, aren't they? Then you are not going to accuse a fellow MEP of anything and anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u213	Mrs Karabulut, you know Mr Azarkan very well and you know his motives, but you still try to join the rest. I blame you for that. You need to stop doing that. If there was another point, I could have given you a little bit of a point. You have worked with Mr Azarkan for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u214	I have a point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u215	I think it is wonderful that Mrs Karabulut says she supports DENK in the fight. Keep doing that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u216	Mr Öztürk, pay attention to your remarks about colleagues. Can I just say that? I see that many colleagues are responding to this. Watch it a little bit. Mrs Karabulut may say a few words. I think she has some thoughts on this, too. Be careful what you say, because you are talking about a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u217	I've said enough about it. Some people think they can follow the same practices here as in some dictatorial regimes. I'm not afraid of that. I have not yet received a clear answer from Mr Öztürk to my question. Does DENK also stand for the rights of the Ihbti community and for the equal rights of women and all other groups? Does Mr Öztürk dare to carry that out and does he dare to say that DENK is carrying that towards her supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u218	Mr President, may I make a point of order before we get an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u219	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u220	I think you are being too lenient, Mr President, when you say: pay attention to your words. I thought that just when Mr Azmani was talking about his eating habits, too. It is a custom of Mr Öztürk to make it very personal here, to engage in the attack on a person and not to speak through the President either. I would ask you to intervene much more strictly, Mr President, and, if necessary, to take Mr Öztürk away as the ultimate consequence. This is just not normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u221	I have just made a comment on this. Where necessary, I will do that again. On this point Mr Heerma and then Mr Öztürk will finish his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u222	I do not have a point of order, because in this debate I do not think it is up to the President to respond, but to the people who are taking part in the debate. During the last general discussion on integration, Mr Öztürk made personal statements, then towards Mr Marcouch, about motives that would play a part. Mrs Karabulut has also been mentioned several times, which I believe she has just been quite right to be angry about. Those innuendos lead to someone playing away in Parliament for suggestions that questions should not be answered anymore. Mr Marcouch would only say things because otherwise he would not be well on the list. Mrs Karabulut is being told about terrorist organisations she would be involved in. Mr Öztürk, it does not fit in with the debate and it does not suit you, so I would ask you, Mr Öztürk, not to do so. It is not good for the debate, it is not good for the picture of politics and it is not necessary for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u223	All right, I propose, also in line with what I said myself, that we do not make comments about colleagues here as we did just now about Mrs Karabulut. I suggest that Mr Öztürk respond briefly and then finish his speech in a business manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u224	Yes, and I also suggest that colleagues stop talking about other parliaments in another continent. We are here in the Dutch Parliament and if colleagues want to ask questions, they ask me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u225	I suggest you just finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u226	I hear Mrs Karabulut shouting from the benches that I did not answer her question, but I always answer that, Mrs Karabulut, you know that from me. Well, I'm going to question six to the minister. Isn't it very tricky and dubious...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u227	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have still not had an answer to my substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u228	All right, then there will be an answer to that question and then Mr Öztürk will finish his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u229	Mr President, our answer is in our election programme. 72 pages full. We stand for every community. We stand for all communities. You're gonna keep reading that, aren't you? I'm gonna get on with my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u230	To clarify for those who cannot read the 72 pages: DENK and Mr Öztürk are also committed to the rights of the Ihbti community and to equal rights for women?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u231	Even for your rights, Mrs. Karabulut. I'm going on. Question 6. Isn't it very tricky and dubious to have people sign these statements? Don't you sign when you're running from bombs and civil war anyway? Don't the mandatory character and the fine of €340 turn against you? Is the statement not losing its value and authenticity because of these circumstances? Isn't everyone just going to sign, even if one doesn't agree with the explanation or one just doesn't understand the explanation? Isn't this what you're creating some kind of phony reality? In the pilot there were 1,500 newcomers who signed. Only 8 didn't sign. Finally, what happens to the signed declarations? Where are they kept? At the Ministry? At the county? Are they gonna be locked away, or are they gonna be pulled out later? Can the Minister guarantee that the signed statement will never be used against anyone in any way? Minister Asscher likes to race. Minister Asscher likes to use the metaphor of the highway in the declaration of participation. A little VVD-like, of course, but okay. Minister Asscher says: on the highway every 100 meters is emphasized how fast you can drive. That is why, according to the Minister, we should stress our core values again and again. But that's what he's doing selectively. People who just have their driving licences must keep to the maximum speed, but people who have been driving for a long time are free to rip as hard as they want. These are not all good citizens who have internalised the rules, Minister. There's some traffic hoods in there, too. So it's gonna be chaos on the highway. This is injustice in honking policy, again the double measure. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the integration policy in general. This week's report by the General Court of Auditors was devastating. The broadcast of Arjen Lubach last Sunday was comical but even more devastating. The questions of the integration course are sometimes incomprehensible and completely absurd. You can't charge people for that. You can't let people who barely have money pay more than $5,000 for that. That's neoliberal takeout policy. That's market forces by a PvdA minister. Even Rita Verdonk wants to reverse that market operation. Iron Rita thinks Asscher's policy is too harsh. How right have you actually become for the past four years, Minister? Can you actually go out on the street as a list leader with a left-wing story, or will the people in the country no longer find you credible? In any case, we at DENK blame you for your right-wing course. All these bullying measures, such as symbolic politics, all this distrust, all this double measure, you are failing millions of people in the country, creating first-class citizens and second-class citizens. That's exactly what DENK is fighting. At DENK, everyone's first-class citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u232	I see Mr Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u233	About the inconsistency of the story of colleague Öztürk of DENK; or it must be that the troll spoke in him for a moment. He was talking about "that's a lie," of course, "that the Labour Party would have forced him to sign something." Let me give Mr Öztürk a chance to save his credibility. Can he explain how DENK, and Mr Öztürk, as chairman of that party, is targeting people like Mrs Sylvana Simons with procedures and fines, because they would have signed a declaration that they do not comply with? Can Mr Öztürk reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u234	This has nothing to do with a statement, it has to do with a contract of employment. If you leave an employer without respecting the notice period and a number of other things for which you have signed, you must send a letter from the lawyer. That's the story. In addition, you say that I am giving Mr Öztürk the room to save his credibility. Who are you to say that? Who are you to tell me to save my credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u235	I really suggest, Mr Öztürk, that you choose your words a little more slowly. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to take further measures. Good. Mr. Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u236	Mr Öztürk himself referred to it as "that was very personal" that the Minister, Louis Asscher, as Mr Öztürk said, would have forced him to sign something. This is about measuring with two sizes. You measure with two sizes and you are inconsistent in what you say. You're feeding suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u237	Good. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u238	My question is how can you explain that you, Mrs Simons, are also a politician, an aspiring member of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u239	What does that have to do with the participation statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u240	You intimidate her with fines and lawyers. I'm asking you what that's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u241	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u242	You take someone else's measure, but you do it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u243	Mr Marcouch is talking about intimidation. You must imagine, Mr President, what we are discussing in this Chamber in the declaration of participation! You'll allow that, too. The only thing I can tell you, Mr Marcouch, is that we are going into elections and people's credibility...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u244	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u245	In the elections, voters will determine people's credibility. You've been playing Asscher's troll for the past four years, and the voter will decide if you're the real troll or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u246	Good. I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u247	Mr President, of course we are talking about values, and I conclude that Mr Öztürk is far from those values. Inconsequential, unbelievable, and he measures by a double measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u248	That'll be the voter...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u249	And sometimes he does that with trolls.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u250	That will be judged by the electorate on 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u251	Good. Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u252	The minister's gonna answer. I have a request for colleagues. There are clearly a number of themes that the debate focuses on when I listen to it. Whenever you interrupt, please be sharp and concise. Then there can also be a concise answer. The points of dispute, the points of discussion, are clear. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u253	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to have this debate after it left the agenda earlier. I think it is very important, so I am grateful to the Chamber for that. The importance of a good integration system is enormous. We all agree on that in this Chamber. We agree that newcomers should make a good start in the Netherlands as soon as possible, so that they can participate and so that they are self-reliant. There's always two sides to integration. In contrast to the opportunities offered for self-development, development and self-determination, the effort called for to become powerful in the Dutch language, to deepen our values and to respect and promote them. The system as we know it reflects that starting point. It is primarily the responsibility of citizens to shape their own integration process. This is without prejudice to the need for the system to be accessible, clear and to ensure that its quality is in order. Last year was an important moment of measurement after the introduction of the Civilisation Act in 2013. We spoke very often, last week in a general discussion, on all the percentages and points where improvements are possible. The report of the General Court leads to a new debate on various elements of the system: market operation, supervision, the role of the municipality and the provision of information. A discussion like that is fine. Wherever we can do better, we should do better. The importance of this is particularly important because in 2015 a very large group of people were included in our country who will have to settle in. So we have a mutual interest in the best possible system. Having a fundamental discussion, I think it is something for a formation. However, I am not going to wait for that. That is why I have already announced changes in a letter. Part of it can now ratify the Chamber in this law. Integration is too important to be confined to system discussions. We have to do what can be done better now. In my letter of October, I indicated what the line of improvements is, and I am continuing to do so. In February, I went into that. I am talking about better information from DUO to citizens, making information available to municipalities so that they have a better picture of the progress of citizens, tailor-made work for groups lagging behind in success rates and better regulation of the monitoring of language providers. The decision-making process on who will do so will be completed in the near future. I know it has the warm interest of the Chamber. I would also like to encourage the group that can do this to opt for the state exam. In addition, training is now a basis for extension of the term. For me, the Court of Auditors' conclusions are important. I explained this in my response to the report. I note that this is largely in line with the changes I have made. I'm always open to more adjustments, but we can't settle this whole discussion right now. So I'm not in favour of changing the whole system right now, but I'm always ready to talk about improvement. However, I am opposed to making a caricature of the current system, as D66 in particular does and did. We must be careful when comparing one situation with another. This afternoon it was mentioned again as an example that 30% of the people succeeded, but that is not true. On 1 January 2017, 60% of the cohort 2013 fulfilled the obligation and of the remaining 40% is at least one third not yet at the end of the term, mostly due to literacy. In my letter of January, I explained that there are some comments to be made on a seamless comparison of figures from 2007 and 2015. There are several reasons for this about apples and pears. The nature and size of the target groups have changed. Some of them were oldcomers, who had lived in the Netherlands for years. You really can't compare them to the group that came here new in 2013. The content of the exams has changed. The demands have become heavier. That is right, because you want to increase people's chances in this country. The Court's report also uses measurement times other than those I have shared with the Chamber. Don't get me wrong: I don't want to trivialize the problems. That is why I wrote in October what I want to do to improve it, but I do not want to pretend that the system is now as gloomy as it is outlined by Van Meenen. I, too, have memories of the old system, which I was allowed to work with as an alderman. That wasn't ideal either. So let us make sure that we make the improvements we want to make within the system that exists. That is what proposals are for now. I come, of course, to the declaration of participation, but I have noted that the role of social guidance and the budgets associated with it is actually supported by Chambers-wide support. So there is now a real opportunity to make an improvement, apart from all political discussions. Then do it. Many questions have been asked about the provision of information. Almost everything is available in several languages. The people we're talking about here are here for at least a few months when they start getting settled. Besides, people can still ask for help if they don't get out. Of course, we must always look at whether the requested self-reliance has not gone too far, but I also do not want to assume an image of helplessness, as if people suddenly show up here without having any idea and then in a rigid panic in our unfriendly... No, it is not. People have often had a very dangerous journey, have passed a procedure, have been here for a number of months, have often done the pre-accession process and then start the integration process. They then come into contact with the information in various languages. They can ask all kinds of people for help about the integration. I don't think you're helping people by pretending they don't have any energy or initiative. Apart from exceptions, I also understand that: vulnerable people, people with a medical situation that keeps them from doing it themselves. But it is in no one's interest to deny that it is often about very powerful people, who have done a lot and endured a lot to get here. They're on the run from horrible situations in the country of origin. They are able, and they want, to take on their integration and integration here. The previous cabinet has chosen to market integration. By the way, language lessons are also given on rocks in the context of integration. At that point, too, it is not as black and white as it sometimes seems. People can choose to follow it there. In the VAO we had before, I indicated that, at the request of Mr Van Meenen, I will quickly proceed with the evaluation so that, if it were to be discussed in the formation, there would still be choices to be made. I will see if I can deliver it in good time so that consideration can be made there. But of course I am not going to wait for that; hence my letter from October. I'll be on my way to the municipalities. Part of the direction now lies with the municipalities because we have given them information, a task and a budget. If you want to go much further, it is indeed about a system change. I think that's a discussion for the formation table. The proposal of the SP actually requires a second legislative amendment on the tasks of the education inspection. I am now looking at a practical solution - that decision will quickly fall - involving, for example, the education inspection without the need to change the law separately. I think that is where I agree with Mrs Karabulut O'Donnell that speed is needed, including in the improvement of supervision. D66 asked: why don't you start in the asylum seekers' centres? In the azc, asylum beneficiaries can start pre-integration. The route is free and consists of an average of 121 hours. It's quite a substantial course. In addition, it has now been made possible for promising asylum seekers to start that course even before they get a permit. Moreover, asylum-seekers in the azc can also start integration. There's nothing stopping them from doing that. They can take out all the loans and get their diploma appreciated. What about the evaluation? We've talked about that before. The legislative review is under way. The results can be expected in 2018. In parallel, there is a pre-evaluation based on all existing studies and also on this afternoon's motion. Even if that motion is not adopted, I would like to do so. How is the quality of pre-integration evaluated? I think it is important to evaluate that quality and I want to include it in the evaluation of the Integration Act. How do we look at the success rates? Of course, I would have liked to have seen 100% of the people who started in 2013 pass the exam. That's not true. 70% of the families have made it and half of the refugees have made it. This shows that a lot of people know how to find their way, but also that they can and should do better. I have concerns about a particular group: people who are low or not educated at all, illiterate, with a cultural background far removed from the Dutch. In my letter of October and January, I indicated that I would like to focus specifically on those groups. I want to support them and encourage them to become citizens successfully. I also want people who do not take action to be actively approached in order to find out what is going on. For this, a pilot starts from DUO. The CDA asked if there are any signs that certain groups are using the medical exemption more often. 2% of the cohort 2013 has a medical exemption. There are no signs that this is being abused. Special doctors, trained by Argonaut, do the medical exam. The burger has to pay for that himself. I don't have the impression that there's something going on that might indicate excessive use. It is, of course, true that in a part of that group I think that 2% is not that crazy indeed there are medical conditions that make you say: you cannot now require that person to do so. I do not think that this is a discussion here either: if this is the case and the doctor states that this exemption is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u254	I know the absolute figures are nuanced. I tried to take that in my first term, too. At the same time, from local practice, I sometimes get signals that there are comparatively many exemptions among certain groups. The minister says he doesn't have those signals. Well, that's what I'm assuming. But I'm gonna check on the signals I got, see if it's any more substantial. Maybe I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u255	Sure do, because if there are signals, we have to look at them. If there is fraud, we must tackle it. All I can say is that those signals are not known to me. But if those signals are there, call them in, 'cause we're gonna take a look at them. I think it is in the interests of Dutch society that we forget that too, when you heard the debate in the first term, and certainly in the interests of the citizen, that we are seriously dealing with the obligation to burgeon in this. This means that, of course, you will have to take medical barriers into account, but also that you will have to focus on committing fraud. So if that's the case, call it in! I have already said something about the comparison of systems. On the basis of the figures as they have developed, I have opted for a number of concrete and practical improvements. I have the impression that they also have the support of the Chamber. Mr Heerma's motion on the withdrawal of the right of residence is being considered by the Ministry of V and J. I mentioned in my letter last year which groups of international laws and regulations prevent loss of the right of residence. Asielmigranates are excluded from the measure of withdrawal on the basis of the ECHR. The November letter indicated that a forthcoming meeting of the European Integration Network would raise the issue, partly because an initiative to amend, for example, a directive would lie with the European Commission. The European Integration Network will be used to examine with European partners how this issue is addressed in other EU countries and what lessons can be learned from it at European level. That meeting will take place this autumn. That's the most appropriate time to set this up. Of course, the informal talks also talk about the importance of integration and the importance of having consequences if people do not want to do so. Then I come to the question of the SGP whether I am prepared to inform the Chamber periodically about sanctions for culpable non-citizens. Of course. The year 2016 was the first year in which the current system could be used to impose fines. In the letters of October and June, I informed the Chamber about the number of fines. I will continue to provide this periodic information so that the Chamber is aware of how this is developing. There were a number of questions that could be summarized as "what do I need it for?" To put it domestically, a society must be able to function on the basis of shared core values. Those core values were created and fought. They are solidified in the Constitution and they are the inspiration and basis of all the other laws and rules we make here, of how the judge applies them and how freedom can be guaranteed in society. Those core values should be clear to newcomers. This is because it is a ticket for participation in society and it is also necessary to make it clear to the host society that you want to be part of that host society. It is precisely when large groups of people come here with much less experience of the freedoms and the fundamental values that are here that it is especially important not only to welcome people, but also to tell them what those values are, to introduce them to them, to have them sign for them and to invite them to do so. Values remain alive if the members of society keep the values alive and go for it. I never understood that we had arranged all kinds of things in our system that often dealt with the most important values in an implicit way. What makes it beautiful to live in the Netherlands? Those are the values of freedom, equality, solidarity and brotherhood, aren't they? These are the reasons why this is such a fantastic country, why we are doing so well economically, why it is free here, why the freedom of the press is at an unprecedented level here, why the freedom of faith here is greater than in any country from which refugees come? That's the most important thing we have here. It's not self-evident and it's, by definition, fragile. Just when people come here because they're on the run from restricting freedoms, isn't it crazy to be shy about it and say "you have to do it yourself; you're supposed to know the law"? You're supposed to know the law. What's that? I get comments that there should be information in more than twelve languages at DUO and at the same time it is said 'you are supposed to know the law'. So you expect someone to read it on laws.nl or laws.now. No, let us once and for all make clear to people who come here what is most important in this country. That's not teasing, that's the best welcome you can give people. That is treating people like adults: you become part of a society that is rich thanks to those values. Those values have nothing to do with eating habits, with Brussels sprouts. I think that's all lame clichés. All Members of Parliament have been able to read the statement, even Mr Van Meenen has been able to read it in the meantime. So it doesn't have to say anymore: what are these values? That's right there. Those are values that appeal to you and me. There's nothing weird about that. In fact, a lot of countries around us are doing it. It's not that crazy, it's not surprising, because a lot of Dutch people are worried about that. This concern is legitimate and is not based on distrust of the refugee, but on the awareness that people come from a country with a completely different tradition. It's great that they come to live here, but then you have to be clear about what those values are and what you expect from people at that point. And yes, I'll admit it immediately: drawing on a piece of paper doesn't mean that you've completely interiorized the values. I will also admit immediately that this has not solved the integration problems and that it is a contribution to something that is more difficult and lengthy and on which we must be realistic. Of course, I never said it was a magic potion or a magic potion, but I do think it is essential that we do not continue to be shy, continue to do implicitly about the values we share here. I think it's essential that we put that first. That's why it's at the beginning of the trajectory. That is why there is a separate system of fines. Otherwise you will only find out after three years "hey, this participation process has not been completed; the municipality did not do it or the citizen did not do it." This is important, because it is a precondition for our society to continue to shape on the basis of these values and freedoms. Let's keep out of all the Brussels sprouts clichés, all the blandness, please. We're talking about the substance of the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u256	I don't think I mentioned Brussels sprouts; I don't know who did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u257	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u258	Mrs. Voortman. Okay. We share those values. That's fine. That's all very well. Of course it is important that this newcomer realizes that very well, but we have an integration process. I pointed out during an interruption: the "Police and Constitution" section is part of that integration process. And indeed, it is exactly as the Minister says: all these developments in our country have been consolidated in the Constitution. My question to the Minister is: what does this add? We've got an integration path. We have an exam. That is what people do, and so they are familiar with these basic values. What does a statement enforced by a fine add to that? Nothing in what the Minister says convinces me that there is added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u259	That makes it very attractive to answer: you want to know what the added value is and you say nothing convinces you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u260	Not so far. That is why I am asking this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u261	So there is still something left of the reasonableness that D66 used to characterize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u262	Let's go that way again! Just answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u263	I was just getting started on that, I'm sure. Of course knowledge of Dutch society is also in the process of integration. How does politics work? How does the rule of law work? How does the Constitution work? That's all in there, but this is something else. It says: "The Netherlands is a democracy and a rule of law. This means that everyone has the same rights and that everyone has to abide by the same rules. In the Netherlands, values of freedom, equality and solidarity play a central role. With these values there are rights to which you can rely. These values can only be maintained if everyone actively contributes to society. Participation is very important in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, everyone can think, do and say what they want. This means that: to express their own opinions; everyone may have their own faith and be free to believe; any person may be eligible for his or her own sexual orientation; Everyone is entitled to their own choices and independence (self-decision law). There are also limits to this. What someone does or says must never be against the law. For example, you should not discriminate, incite hatred or call for hostility." This is just the beginning. We ask people at the beginning of their integration process to take note of this, because we think this is the most important thing, and to sign for it and to help promote it. Then people are enriched with all kinds of knowledge of Dutch society. There will also be uses that you may also relativize. The test is always evaluated. We ask this because this is the most important thing, because it's the ticket, the beginning. Those values and values, these fundamental values, must be clear to everyone from the beginning. Why do we ask people to sign for that? Not because it's in your head when you sign, but because in our society it generally has meaning when you sign something. That does something to you. It asks you to be aware of something. It is the end of a process in which people first explained what that is. Municipalities have relatively much freedom in that. I can give you wonderful examples of this. There is a video, which I highly recommend, in which hardly any language is used and in which these values of the Netherlands are perfectly demonstrated. That is the added value: the most important thing we have here, make it clear to people who are new to our society, so that they can help to convey those values.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u264	I'd like to ask you brief questions and brief answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u265	I think my questions are a lot more concise than the answers. Anyway, that's up to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u266	This time it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u267	Of course, it's very important that people are aware of those values. My only question is, why do we have a statement stating a fine? What's the value of that? In fact, it is pointless for me to ask that question, because I am about to get that whole answer from the Minister and I am being accused of being unreasonable, contrary to the well-known reasonableness that D66 used to stand for. I really don't understand. We have an integration process in which these values are all contained or in which these values should be stopped if they weren't already in it. Take a test on that. Then it's a fair run. Now it's just a forced explanation, a valueless explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u268	Because it's important to people. You take a course, you get lessons, you get instruction in your new country about those values and then you sign for them. You make a solemn promise with that, too. That has a value; you can also see that in the evaluation. There was a very curious way of looking at that evaluation, but what do you see? Newcomers feel more welcome as a result of this participation statement. You can see that this is particularly important as an introduction to a new country and values that may differ from the values in the country where they came from. You can see that this is particularly appealing to the refugees and that it appreciates the activities of the pilot. That's not crazy, since they're probably on the run from lack of freedom. Rights and obligations are an important element. It is not just about the rights that are given, but also about the duty to defend those rights for others. I will give some examples of the experiment in Spijkenisse, where the refugees in particular were very enthusiastic. Informing about fundamental values is part of the objective. This has proved to be a valuable tool, say performers, project leaders and participants. A majority states that participants are now better informed of the fundamental values. Someone who participated in the trial says: "Everyone in the Netherlands is equal, so I too must treat everyone equally. I learned that during the group discussion." "This information helps me to understand the Netherlands better." "I participate in this meeting because I would like to get to know the country in which I live. I want to know Dutch customs and traditions and know everything about the rights and duties."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u269	I am sorry that the Minister is so upset, including in the direction of GroenLinks. In my speech, I made a clear distinction between one part of the pilot and the other part. The quotes given by the Minister are about the participation process. GroenLinks also finds this valuable. You may wonder if municipalities would not do so without having to lay it down in the law, but such a journey is valuable. GroenLinks is precisely about the declaration of participation, which has to be made in advance. There's something suspicious about that. What does it say if someone doesn't sign?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u270	You're going to a new country. These are the rules of the game. That's what you sign for. Why is that mistrust? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u271	We already have a trajectory. In that respect, the Minister and I are not so far apart. I think the trajectory has added value. The municipalities agree, but they doubt whether the statement has any added value. If the minister is questioned about this, he'll bring up the route. The explanation suggests that people wouldn't want to participate. There's something of distrust in it that's thought that people wouldn't want to integrate if we don't have an explanation. Suppose we cancel the statement, but let the law go as it is, then we have a fine law, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u272	No, we don't. The municipalities weren't gonna do this by themselves, because they're gonna do it now. The fact that there is an obligation to integrate is important. That's what matters. I find it so difficult for GroenLinks to say that it is a good law and that people want to know the values themselves and want to take a course. It's important that it's not noncommittal. They are the most fundamental values. The part of the explanation states: "I have taken note of the values and rules of Dutch society, that I respect them and that I want to actively contribute to Dutch society. I'm counting on my fellow citizens to give me space for that." That is an essential element, unless you say that the whole obligation in our integration system is based on mistrust. But no, it's based on realism. If a lot of people come to this country, we all have an interest in the fact that integration and integration are not non-binding, but mandatory. You can ask. On the other hand, you offer people the space and give them a full chance. I think that obligation makes perfect sense. When you include people in society, you don't say: it's just if you happen to feel like it. No, these are the rules that everyone abides by.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u273	That obligation already applies under the Integration Act. This declaration, on penalty of a fine if it is not signed, adds nothing to that. We already have that obligation. It's already got sanctions on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u274	I do not think we will find each other on this point. I think it is precisely because we did not pay attention to the fundamental values, citizens and ourselves at the beginning of the integration process. I place it in the system of integration law, where obligations are quite normal, as part of integration. I do that because it wasn't enough. That was also acknowledged, as you can see in those evaluations. It wasn't already done, but we need to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u275	Of course, I also read the evaluation of the pilots. It is above all a good tool to make important values discussable, especially in the contact between citizens and municipalities and the guidance around them. I'm sure the Minister read that too. The VNG is now saying that this change of law is not a sufficient solution for this social support, because that is what lives, but that more direction is needed in order to achieve successful integration. It is not about signing a paper, as the Minister says, but it is about much more. That is why I am surprised at the Minister's reaction to our amendment on the role of the municipalities in directing the process for all citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u276	I have taken note of that view of the VNG. At the same time, I have made agreements with the municipalities based on this law. This includes resources and tasks for the municipalities. The municipalities indicated that they can do well with this. The municipalities or the VNG are then free to say that they want a further change. When we made those agreements, in 2015, the municipalities said that they could do the participation process and the social guidance. The municipalities were very pleased with the additional information and the formally established role they now have. But of course, the thinking doesn't stand still. I assume that the other side will also keep to the agreements they themselves have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u277	I'm sure you will. It is true that something is being formalized that is already practiced. That is good, but it is not enough, if the Minister agrees with me that we should not make the statement much bigger than it is, while the rest of the integration process is at least as important. Municipalities say very clearly that they have too little control over the situation, and too little information, to ensure that a good result is achieved. We do not want a whole system change. I have read the election programme of the Labour Party, on which the Minister is campaigning. He also wants to go to a more public system, so do I. Can we be the first step, to tackle problems directly, that directional role does indeed attach to the municipalities, so that they can get a grip on the whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u278	I think it is good to say that this social guidance, which we give the municipalities the legal role, is wider than just the participation declaration. This one sees just at a start with the integration. This also gives municipalities the opportunity to guide residents to the right route. It didn't work out in the past. They'll get that space now. I understand very well that Mrs Karabulut says from her political point of view that she wants to go one step further. I do not rule out that in a month's time we will be in a situation where the negotiations will result, but I note that this is an improvement in the direction advocated by the municipalities. For a further change you will really need the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u279	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u280	That is a political choice which the Minister then makes. Unfortunately, he has failed to make that choice for the past three years. I understand that, with a party like the VVD, who prides himself on its own responsibility, but it is a political choice. The Minister should not pretend that it would be impossible to take that step at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u281	I didn't say that either, but choices should be based on majorities and agreements you make with other parties. There are no parties in the Dutch Parliament with more than 75 seats, so anyone who wants to run should take into account that he also has to make agreements. Within these agreements, I am very excited about the changes to the law that I am now putting forward here. I wonder if these will be supported by the SP, which also recognises that they are improvements. Mr. Chairman. I'm not in favour of extending the deadline. I also think that this is not necessary, especially because of the participation process. I do think it contributes to integration, as I have just said. How does this knowledge transfer take place? In many ways: with cinematic images, a course, in different languages, by organising a dialogue on this subject. I myself have been able to see that they are very successful in this. I have a few examples of municipalities where people are really excited about what this results in. I am thinking of Leiden, Enschede and Amsterdam: three municipalities in which D66 participates. On the contrary, they are very positive about this element and, in my opinion, they are also doing so in an admirable way. Mr Heerma asked why this was not possible for EU migrants and migrants from Turkey. I have tried; it was indeed my objective. We turned all the legal sides upside down, but it didn't work. I think I wrote about that once. On the basis of the Association Decision and the EU Treaty, you cannot impose this obligation. I'm sorry about that. I would, however, like to give municipalities the opportunity to make people aware of this on a voluntary basis. Some municipalities do, too. In Limburg, where there are many migrant workers, people are very positive about this. The materials they have developed are available free of charge. However, you cannot force this, even though I would have liked to have seen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u282	I think it is very good that this option has been chosen. Unfortunately, it was not possible to realize what was originally planned. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of its progress? For example, what are the results and do many people voluntarily participate? Can the Minister also indicate which factors, according to the municipalities, are important to motivate people to participate? Perhaps the experiences of one municipality can be used by the other, so that more people there too voluntarily participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u283	Yes. Honesty requires me to say that municipalities have to do so on their own initiative and with their own resources. In the scarcity that exists, I have chosen to use the resources in such a way that municipalities can carry out the social support of citizens. There is also the money for such a journey. Nevertheless, I see that some municipalities are enthusiastic, but that is the merit of those municipalities. So I don't have a monitor. I think it is a good idea, when we are one step further, to look at the quality of how many municipalities continue to do so. Perhaps in the future you will want to make funds available for that purpose, because we have a great interest in ensuring that migrant workers and Turkish migrants know and endorse the declaration of participation and the fundamental values.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u284	I have a study in front of me which shows that only 1% of citizens say they do not want to learn the language. The others have not done a course because they are stressed, for financial reasons or otherwise. 99% have no problem with it at all. What is the justification for this Minister to step up the demands that the deadline should not be extended and that the correct quality of education should not be provided, but that an additional fine should be imposed on the existing sanction regime? Does the Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u285	I find the reasoning very strange, as if the justification of the obligation depends on the answer to the question of whether more or less than 99% intends to comply with that obligation. If 99% doesn't intend to kill other people, we won't get murder out of criminal law. That's a curious kind of reasoning, isn't it? Yeah, we all have an interest in getting settled. Yes, I have just stated in detail that the fundamental values are important in this respect. We want it at the beginning of the trajectory. So you're gonna have to sanction this, too. I completely assume that these values apply here. That's one of the best reasons to live in this country. I really don't understand. I think it's just a support that it's not such a hindrance. Of course, people want to live up to that. Then it is not so bad that it is mandatory and that you impose a sanction on the small group that may not want it? That is precisely what is happening in order to protect the host society and the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u286	Then the Minister really loses me completely, because I think this is super unfair. If the Minister believes that the declaration of participation should be at the service of integration, if you are going to demand even more of people, knowing that the quality of education is inadequate, knowing that the government does not assume its own responsibility for making integration possible, knowing that the current demands are already very tough and knowing that there is already a strict sanction regime, then I think that is unfair. If the minister doesn't understand that, we're gonna lose each other for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u287	That is regrettable, especially since I have just read half of what we are asking of people. That is not so much or complicated, but it is fundamental. Of course we're asking people to do this. You can also ask people this because it is something to celebrate. Mrs Karabulut pretends to be asking something bizarre, but these are the same fundamental values that Mr Van Meenen said we should read in the Constitution. We ask people to take notice of them and to help them carry them out. That's not weird. And, of course, that's mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u288	The Minister shouldn't turn around. We've lost each other. I did not say at all that the Minister asked for something bizarre with a declaration of participation. I have just said that the rights and obligations are not in balance. When you ask for something extra from people, it's okay to put rights against them. I find this to be a huge distrust, and wrong. That image is constantly being created by the VVD. With this fine of €340, a small step is added, and family migrants, thus the partners of the Dutch from abroad, also have to finance them themselves. You're not gonna punish kids who just started preschool, are you? They give you stickers when they do things right and don't give you stickers when they don't do things right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u289	Yeah, now we've lost each other. The SP has now replaced the integration policy for large groups of people in our country with stickers for kindergarten children. I heard that just happened, it was just said; I didn't make that up, did I? I think this is a fundamental matter. It's festive. It's a good thing this is serious. You're asking people to do this. The evaluation shows that refugees are grateful for this, that they are enthusiastic, that this makes them feel more welcome and more at home. But Mrs. Karabulut says they're kindergarten kids, give them a sticker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u290	I get this. The Minister is now doing the same thing as Mr Marcouch did: concealing that this is just a crazy right-wing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u291	No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u292	He didn't change it. He's coming up now with a change, extra strict, to show muscle to burgers. That's too bad. Such a system of fines is also done with the students. It's super neoliberal. I wish the Minister every success. I just expected him to be a little bit more honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u293	Your point is clear now. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u294	You can accuse Mr Azmani or the VVD of anything, but I don't think they came up with this. I think it's no secret that I think it's very important that we celebrate those values, that we let people know about them and that they make our society beautiful. You can say it's unjust, but I think it's a question of justice, both towards newcomers and oldcomers, that we put those values first. They make our country a fantastic country. I'd like to keep it that way. But you shouldn't want to be naive about that. I find that the SP is. Where did those pilots work best? The municipalities were free to design the route. The interpretation thus also differed in intensity and design. The evaluation shows that what was enthusiastically put into practice was all the more appreciated. I think that is a good example of this. Sometimes this is combined with starting volunteering. Sometimes newcomers have joined associations as part of the participation declaration process. Employment has started in a variety of ways. All this seems to me to be a nice added value of the fact that the municipalities have started working on this. This month, we shared a factsheet with a series of practical examples with municipalities, inspiring how they could do it, based on the experiences of different municipalities. A hand-out has also been published which can be used by municipalities. I think it is right for our decentralised establishment that municipalities can make their own choices in this and that this leads to exciting results. As regards the definition of these core values and the text, I will deal with them in a moment when the amendments are being discussed, as a number of proposals have been made for them. Now the cost. As I have just said, I think it is a good thing that citizens have their own responsibility for this. For asylum migrants, the cost of the route is covered by the contribution received by municipalities. This contribution was increased from €1,000 to €2,370 per resident citizen in the 2015 administrative agreement. I have just spoken to Mrs Karabulut about the fines. Mr Bishop asked about starting with other parts. Why hasn't that been made conditional on each other? I think it is right that, precisely in order to speed up and meet the deadline, people should be able to start with other parts if the previous part has not yet been completed; you have a year to do so. I wouldn't want to make it conditional, because that gives rise to bureaucracy. Moreover, it can deter the benevolent citizen from moving forward with integration. This is what we want: the sooner one starts, with as many parts as possible, the more successful one integrates into Dutch society and can contribute to it. That's why there's no click system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u295	That's what I've done in my contribution. However, it was linked to the fact that for those who do not wish to sign the declaration, there are still possibilities to conclude the loan and that kind of thing. On that point, I would like a further reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u296	It is not considered proportionate, given what you can and cannot ask for legally, to extend the consequences beyond that fine. The fine that one finds too high is, according to the other, too low.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the explanation for this. So it's considered disproportionate to say: if you don't, you can't join the rest. You have to pass the integration exam as a whole, but for this part the lawyers say that you cannot impose a heavier penalty than this fine. You can't put all kinds of other inferences into it either. I fully agree with Mr Bishop that this also brings with it a certain displeasure, but this is why we have dimensioned it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u297	I understand that, but I wonder what ultimately is the ultimate meaning of the participation statement if there is an opportunity, an opening, a mouse hole for all I care, that you, even if you don't sign, can still go on, so to speak. What does that statement mean in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u298	In the current system, only in a limited number of cases can the residence permit be affected by failure to comply with the obligation of integration. We've talked about that before. That's what the motion, Heerma, is for. I think that there is every right and reason to say that Europe would have an interest in having an ultimate opportunity. We are indeed talking about a very small group of people to whom this will apply. In my view, this is part of this. The way it is now, you're gonna have to do it with fines. Fines are indeed effective. That is what we see when we impose these sanctions. However, there is no further sanction than the imposition of fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u299	I understand the legal explanation on the part of the case, but we are talking about sanctions. However, you can also look at it from reciprocity; that word has often been used in this debate. Not wanting to participate also means that you cannot claim the benefits, such as getting a loan. Doesn't this have anything to do with reciprocity anymore? Wanting to join us means participating, too. So what we are proposing is not a sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u300	I will deal with this in the second place. Even if it is not intended as a sanction, it can be seen as a sanction by those concerned. Sometimes, therefore, in a legal sense, you have to consider it as such. There is therefore a requirement of proportionality. I'll check it out just in case. I'll come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u301	Yeah, I was gonna ask you if you could do that in second term. I understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u302	Whether it is perceived as a sanction is not relevant to proportionality, but I await the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u303	In the second period, therefore, this point will come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u304	Have the means been earmarked? The contribution shall be paid after the entry into force of this law from the decentralisation allowance in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. It is paid annually afterwards. The SP spokesperson asked for this. It is true, however, that the notification states that the means are intended for social support. Moreover, it follows from the amended Law on Integration that municipalities have an obligation to provide that guidance. In other words, they do not have the choice to say that they do not. Until the entry into force of the law, the contribution will be paid through the COA. I have already talked about the separate basis and the municipal direction. Mr Azmani asks me to return to the 2007 situation. The answer to that is "no." I believe that we have the task of further improving it now from the point of view of existing ones. The integration exam is not an end in itself, but an instrument to contribute to and become part of society. Sure, I agree. It is an important instrument, but it is ultimately an instrument. That's what design is for. That whole law is an instrument to ensure that newcomers in our society find their way, contribute and feel welcome. The Language Requirement Act has been in force since July 2016. Municipalities may approach welfare recipients and, if necessary, offer a language course. That law allows people to be cut short if they are not powerful in the language, unless they are willing to learn the language. The obligation of integration is not included as a condition in that law. Municipalities can therefore not impose a measure if the integration examination has not been passed, but if people blamefully do not cooperate and, for example, refuse to learn the language. The preliminary picture is that most people do participate in that. I don't have any signals yet that municipalities have stumbled upon unwillingness. The exercise of the language requirement is monitored and also evaluated in accordance with agreement with the Chamber. Then you can say something about numbers and final numbers. Mr Öztürk asked whether the participation declaration was available in other languages. Yeah, it's available in 12 languages. The brochure with core values and the other foreign language material is also available free of charge to municipalities and has been translated into the languages of the largest groups of new arrivals subject to integration. I also see that Mr Öztürk is no longer here on this important subject. At least his question has been answered. He also asked what I think of the reaction of the Dutch Order of Lawyers. I believe that our society can only function if everyone who wants to settle here participates and knows and respects the core values of the Netherlands. By signing it, citizens will show that commitment and their willingness to actively contribute to it. The value of the participation declaration process lies in the awareness process of the rules and values of Dutch society. Everyone at all times retains the right to be of a certain opinion. In fact, that's one of those values you're signing up for, including the freedom of faith and the freedom not to believe. In the explanatory memorandum, I have substantiated that the proposed amendment does comply with national and international law in force. I am ready for the amendments. I shall start with a combination of the amendments to item No. 8 and Item No. 16. I understand the intention of the proposers. They say: if that is so important, there must also be a legal basis for it. The Court should be involved in amending the text. I understand that, also in the light of the discussion we have had here. I don't want anyone suddenly saying, "Today, we're doing totally different values." After all, this has not been chosen for nothing. I would like to give the proposers the following consideration. It is proposed by the proposers to add: "The participation declaration process is concluded with the declaration by the citizen that he is willing to make an active contribution to Dutch society." I refer to the explanatory part of the participation declaration. This is also more in line with what is included in the law about the naturalisation ceremony. If that were possible, I would like to combine the amendments to item No. 8 and Item No. 16 to the Court's judgment, because I see that it strengthens the guarantee of this instrument in the law. I should like to leave the opinion on these amendments to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u305	I think we can still have further contact outside this sitting on the precise impact. I understand the intent. Our intention is also positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u306	The amendment in part No. 9 to the discussion we have just had. I therefore advise against this for legal reasons, but I also advise against it for the practical reasons I have already mentioned: that if there is no involuntaryness, you want to enable people to do these paths side by side. I am afraid the amendment could make this difficult. Above that is the legal argument which I shall be addressing again in the second term, challenged by Mr Heerma. In the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Voortman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the After the debate we have had, it is no surprise that I disagree. I think I may have answered Mr Monasch's question too implicitly. I agree with him that this obligation should also apply to EU migrants and Turkish migrants, but I have just indicated, in response to Mr Heerma's legal question, that I do not currently have the opportunity to impose that obligation on them. I looked for it for about a year after publishing the Agenda for Integration. The Karabulut amendment c.s. in piece No. 11 is about the direction. I have indicated that some of the direction is taken by municipalities through the law, and that for the rest I believe that it is a more fundamental change, which should be discussed at the formation table. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The Karabulut amendment to item No. 12 is about extending the deadline. I don't think it's necessary to extend the deadline. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The Karabulut amendment to item No. 13 concerns the expiry of the fine. We have just had a debate on this. It will be no surprise that I am deceiving this amendment. The Van Meenen amendment to item No. 14 is about deleting the entire route. I'd advise against a fortiori. I hope I have convinced Mr Van Meenen with my plea. The Pieter Heerma/Bisschop amendment to item No. 16 I had already combined with the Dijkgraaf/Pieter Heerma amendment in part No. 8 pre-advised. I shall leave the opinion to the Chamber if and to the extent that the amendment to which Mr Bishop declared his willingness is implemented. That's more legally elegant. The point is that the explanatory part is incorporated into the law instead of one part of it, because the latter would suggest an imbalance that the proposers do not want. Both the involvement of the Chamber in changing the text in the future and the inclusion of the explanatory part fits perfectly with the purpose of the government in this law. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u307	Then it is time for the second term. The speakers are entitled to one third of the original speaking time, but the key issues discussed are clear to me as a simple President. Perhaps a few minutes will suffice for all of you. Of course, you have the right to make motions. You may also waive your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u308	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the Minister has ignored all our comments and proposals. A very important element of language and integration education is that people actually learn the language. Market forces and the current system have made this impossible in recent years. In any case, the result is extremely bad. Instead of working on that base, the Minister introduces a statement of participation. In addition, he further raises the additional requirements and the debt system. In my view, the Minister has unfortunately expressed too much solidarity with the market forces and the VVD policy. I will therefore give my group a negative opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u309	Mr. Chairman. I'm a very reasonable man and I'm on a very reasonable side. That is why I hate unreasonable proposals. This proposal is not reasonable. Something's being asked that's unnecessary. It can also be part of the normal integration process. However, the statement is enforced by a fine. You're invited to a party, but you can't say no to speak in the Minister's words. He says it's a party. It is indeed a feast in Leiden, but I wonder if it will still be a feast when this law enters into force. Then there is a shadow over the party because of that fine and a mandatory statement. The Minister should perhaps ask himself which parties in this Chamber are opposed to this. They're parties that he should normally see as his allies. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Aan die zijde van de Kamer is het alleen de Partij van de Arbeid die meebeweegt.]] Furthermore, that is the right-hand part of the Chamber. Maybe that's what the Minister thinks after all. I'd like to make two more motions. Although the Minister has already said something about it, I would like to bring it to the attention of the House. The first motion concerns the quality of pre-accession. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the pre-integration offered by the COA involves a great deal of money, but there is no monitoring of the quality of the supply;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the quality of the pre-accession offer and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u310	The second motion concerns integration into the asylum-seekers' centre. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that asylum seekers are becoming more disadvantaged every day that they are here and cannot start their integration and that their chances of rapid participation in the labour market and in society as a whole are reduced;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how asylum seekers can start the integration process in the asylum-seekers' centre,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u311	Mr. Chairman. The pilot project of the participation declaration process underlying this legislative proposal is nuanced. On one part, participants and municipalities are positive. Not about the other part. I based my contribution on that. I note that the Minister has only heard this to a very limited extent. In my contribution, I made the distinction between the trajectory and the explanation. GroenLinks attaches great importance to the support of citizens. That is why we are critical of the way in which integration is now taking place. We would like more guidance and we think it is a good idea if municipalities are given more direction. A declaration of integration can help with this. But I still don't get the need to sign that statement. It's a one-sided explanation. It contains values and standards, but it does not contain what is then expected of the government and what the government has to offer. The explanation seems to assume that people would not want to participate, but that is not the case at all. A large part of people want nothing more than to participate in society. A large part of the political groups say this and I think I have heard the Minister say it. That makes this statement a wrong symbol. Symbols may be good, but in this case it seems to be a symbol in the vein of: perhaps you do not want to participate at all and therefore we force you to sign this statement, because then we record it well. The Minister states that it must be clear what the Dutch values are, but the question is whether you are doing so by signing a statement or not doing so much better by focusing on the guidance. This statement seems to have become more of a prestige element in the legislative proposal. The statement also pollutes the bill. I'm very sorry about that. I indicated in my first term that it is actually an example of paternalistic patriotism and not progressive patriotism. I repeat that here; I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u312	I indicated in my first term that I thought Mrs Voortman's speech was nuanced, although we differed. It also endorses the value of the route. I hope she understands that the suggestion that it would be purely prestige for my party is a little less good. We support this in substance. In this way, we say that adding that statement and signing it has value. It also has effect in practice. I mentioned a mayor in the first term who uses it for that. Does GroenLinks recognise that it is more than just a minister's prestige project? That suggestion was a bit in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u313	I am specifically concerned with the explanation and not with the route, I say to make that distinction. I have not heard any arguments which convince me that this statement is an indispensable part of the total. I didn't hear that clearly. Mr Heerma and I are indeed debating this in a nuanced manner, but the Minister's attitude is such that people who dare to ask a critical question about the declaration of participation are only blamed by this minister. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u314	It became clear to me both in the first term and in the second period that GroenLinks makes a very clear distinction and therefore does not reject the whole process, which others in this Chamber might do more. I appreciate that from GroenLinks, because that trajectory has value. But in my opinion, the signs of that statement and the fact that it is not without obligation also have value. I tried to underline that in an interruption in the first term with the mayor I spoke to and who said to me: we also use that to mark at that moment that this means something; read it correctly, read it in your own language, understand what it says and know what that means, because we are going to hold you to that too. That moment has value, that adds something. It's more than just a prestige moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u315	I think you could very well reflect that by the first conversation you have with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u316	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Bishop, but he doesn't. I call Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u317	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his first-term reply and for his goodwill to look at the improvement proposals put forward by the SGP and the CDA. It is clear that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. I believe that both elements of the legislative proposal are improvements in the area of integration. As a result of the first-term answer, I still have a question. In the context of reciprocity, should not the refusal to participate in the participation declaration also be a reason not to be able to claim that loan? In my view, this is more than just a sanction involving proportionality. When the Minister responded to the amendments, he combined the amendment in part No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to item No. 8 with the amendment to He suggested a text change for the amendment to item No. 8, to which Mr Bishop has just given a favourable response as the first petitioner. For the sake of completeness: the assessment of the amendment to item No. I don't think 16 has anything to do with that. The Minister combined the two net, but also the amendment in part No. I would like to make a few comments on this point. 16 Judgment Room. Would the Minister confirm that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u318	I don't see Mr Monasch anymore. Oh, yeah, there he is again. He'll have the floor now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u319	Mr. Chairman. It was striking that the VVD, in response to a motion that will be voted on next week, said that it would not be legally possible, while there is all legal criticism of VVD proposals from the Dutch Bar Association. Criticism of which the VVD says at that time: we put it aside. That does not seem to me to be entirely consistent, so we are waiting for the vote with interest. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court of Auditors' recently published integration rates are disastrous;]] [[noting that we are facing a sharp increase in asylum entry;]] [[noting that good integration is crucial to the acceptance of asylum policy in society;]] [[noting that the legislative amendment proposed does not remove the weaknesses of the Integration Act sufficiently for proper integration;]] [[Calls on the Government to maintain this amendment of law and to present, after the March 2017 elections, a comprehensive and final plan for integration and participation, which, after selective admission, considers the integration through, inter alia, education, participation and work as a public task,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u320	I would ask that this motion be put to the vote before the vote on the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u321	That will be noted by the Registrar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u322	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are facing a sharp increase in asylum inflow between 2015 and 2016;]] [[having noted that by the end of 2015, there were more than 850,000 migrants in the Netherlands from other European Member States;]] [[noting that the management of the integration of asylum seekers and immigration of migrant workers in the Netherlands is currently too fragmented and in both the market and public hands;]] [[noting the need to review the role and action of the COA;]] [[noting that the figures in the Court's report give little reason to hope for successful integration;]] [[noting that migration is one of the most important issues and challenges of our time;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a dossier for the upcoming formation for a separate Ministry of Migration to be responsible for the entire process of both asylum and labour migration as well as integration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u323	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for his reactions. This is an important step for citizens but also for integration. This is now happening for the first time, after years of debate and discussion about what are the values that people should embrace, both people who live here and people who come new to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, stable and harmonious. This is because we have a high priority for freedom, because we respect the other and because we accept the other, even if he is different and even if he has a different view. This is an important achievement of our society. That is what we must defend and promote. We must also be clear about this when people arrive new to the Netherlands. Because anyone who brings chaos or fear or wants to rush us against each other, who wants to radicalize us or isolate us, does not make the Netherlands strong but poor. Mr President, I will, as you will not be surprised, advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u324	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. Thank you also for his strong plea towards left-wing parties in the Chamber who see it only as an obstacle and as a perception. That was the debate; now they have to make their own assessment of how they advise their group. I think it's important to mention a few more things. The process of integration is, I have heard the Minister well, not an end in itself but an instrument to actively contribute to society. I'm glad the Minister shares that with me. I am pleased that he sees the participation declaration and the legislative proposal he has put forward not as an end in itself, but as an instrument in which he himself states that this participation declaration is not a magic tool for successful integration. In doing so, he raises the expectations of this bill. I think that's just realistic and good. I am particularly concerned with the following: I think the Minister knows very well what I am talking about. If you look at the studies I mentioned earlier, you will see that people in the current integration system have a negative motivator to actually take the step to burgeon. Only during the integration process one experiences a positive motivator. That positive motivator is that you ultimately have better future prospects in this country. But if there are no negative consequences, you also don't have the motivator to successfully burgeon. The Minister also knows very well that, at the moment when there can be no residence consequences, you go one step lower in your rights. The right of residence is a high right, a great right, and this includes, for example, social security rights. We are now working on the GEAS package, the Common European Asylum System. Regulations are being made, particularly in this area. There you see concepts and designs that say that if one is reluctant to integrate, that must have consequences for social security. I did not ask the Minister for nothing whether he was prepared to reduce social security, in this case in particular assistance. I heard the answer. I do not think we are getting anywhere in this debate, I say to be realistic. That is perhaps also the difference between a minister who is also the leader of the Labour Party and me as spokesman for the VVD Group. How you ultimately turn it around, this system only works when it actually has consequences. I would like to hear another reaction to that in the second term. Is the Minister really not prepared to inform local authorities that if we do not make these efforts, we will also have an obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u325	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u326	Mr. Chairman. Justice, equality and a double-size approach will ensure that a lot of people quickly integrate into this beautiful country. If you treat everyone equally and give space, and if you point out to everyone his responsibilities, the newcomer will see and embrace it, and then he will participate. If you think you should do it with compulsion and if you think you should treat newcomers differently than the people here, you won't get there. In the first period, I made it clear how we feel that newcomers should be integrated. We also see what people who have been living here for years indicate in research: 40% of the Turkish and Moroccan Dutch do not feel happy here and do not feel at home here. Let us do something about it. Let us initiate mutual acceptance. Let us work together to ensure that we do not regard each other as enemies, but as fellow citizens, as friends, as colleagues. Let us show that we in the Netherlands have a place in the world where anyone can be who he wants to be. I have three motions to try to amend the law on the declaration of participation somewhat. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that core values apply to all;]] [[invites the Government, if the Statement of Participation is introduced, to make a proposal to have the Declaration of Participation signed by everyone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Statement of Participation is selective in relation to core values and is discriminatory in its application to new entrants only;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the declaration of participation from the present legislative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the key values of the Declaration of Participation are far from common in our society, among other things the persistent problem of discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government, if the Statement of Participation is introduced, to make a proposal to have the Declaration of Participation also signed by people convicted of discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34584-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u327	Mr. Chairman. I understand that you have to go through that there will be another debate after this, so I'll get started. Thank you for the second-term responses. I shall confine myself to a single question and the motions. Meanwhile, I get the remaining motions. That's great. That's really fast. In the motion in part No. 17 asks Van Meenen to examine the quality of the pre-accession offer. If I may interpret this as taking part in the announced evaluation, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment and then I understand the question very well. In the motion in part No. 18 is asked to examine how asylum seekers can start integration in the asylum-seekers' centre. I thought I had indicated in the first term that status holders would not stand in the way of starting with that. They got their status. I have also said that promising asylum seekers can start already. If it sees an extension to all asylum seekers, then I am against the motion and I advise against it, otherwise it is already practice. I am afraid that I will be deceiving the motion, because I do not see what is intended otherwise. There was another first-term question about the loan. As said: from a legal point of view, there are reasonable doubts about the proportionality of stopping the right to a loan. So that is indeed an objection. In addition, a higher threshold for integration is created by the difficulty of taking courses. That's undesirable, because it can slow down integration. That is the other argument I have just mentioned towards Mr Bishop. I do not know whether my argument that it is a sanction is decisive, but it is not considered proportionate to hang the loan on it. That is why I am arguing against it. What is the situation with regard to language lessons for promising asylum seekers? A limited number of groups are seen as promising. At the moment, the COA is completing its work so that, from spring onwards, it is possible for promising asylum seekers to actually receive NT2 lessons. It is expected to start in mid-March 2017. In the motion in part No. 19 asks Monasch to keep the change. I think all of these are improvements that do not stand in the way of then completely overturning them. They're improvements, though. You have to bear in mind that you have lost a great deal of time before a new cabinet has passed any new laws. I did note from Monasch's speech that he has a positive assessment of both the declaration of participation and the task for the municipality in this legislative proposal. I therefore hope that, despite my negative opinion on his motion, he will still support the law. In the motion in part No. 20 is requested for a Ministry of Migration. Everyone is prepared that things will be cut and glued again. I indicated to Mr Öztürk in the first term that I would regret myself if the nomads of integration were to be cut off from Social Affairs again. They have just landed there and their added value can be seen, for example in the area of youth unemployment. Should it be necessary, there is no need to prepare so much. You can cut and paste wallet parts again. In my view, therefore, I cannot recommend this motion, with Mr Monasch's reassurance that at least the problem is not with the club currently sitting at SZW as a new cabinet would decide to create such a ministry. I come to Öztürk's motions. I understand very well the idea of the motion in part number. 21 to say: you must also have the values endorsed by people who already live in the Netherlands. The Van Dam motion is also important for this. As a result, a pilot is being done to see what you could do. Maybe that will eventually lead to such a proposal. My advice is therefore to hold the motion until the time when we are discussing the drafting of the Van Dam motion. Otherwise, I would advise against the motion, because you cannot impose an obligation on non-citizens through the Integration Act. I think Mr Öztürk will agree with me. I'm not in favour of deleting the participation statement. I've just argued that in detail. The motion in part No. Twenty-two, I'm guessing. In the motion in part No. 23 is asked to have the participation declaration signed by people convicted of discrimination. For this purpose, the reasoning which I have just given at the motion in part No. Twenty-one. I get the idea. I would also like to agree that it is important that everyone knows, supports and promotes the core values. Education has an important role to play in this. For first time voters, that's the time to point out to them how great that is. I also think that educators have a role to play in this. So perhaps it is best to hold the motion and take it back when we look at the Van Dam motion. Otherwise, I'd have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u328	Thank you for the Minister's understanding of that. But with people who deliberately discriminate, we have to do something. At the very least, the Minister can come to the Chamber with a proposal to begin with those who are violating our core conditions. I understand that it may be too early for others now, but we have to start somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u329	I myself think that discrimination makes a lot of difference in society. I have seen a lot of this in recent years, such as discrimination in the labour market and discrimination through social media. It makes dreams of the future turn into frustrations, and sometimes it destroys those dreams. So I am strongly opposed to that. However, I believe that criminal law is a much more appropriate response than signing the declaration. I can imagine that it could play a role in that, but I think it should be used in criminal law. To declare, prosecute, catch perpetrators and punish them where possible seems to me to be an appropriate response in breach of these fundamental values of our rule of law. Otherwise, I'm referring to what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u330	Briefly, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u331	Quite right. You could say that after that punishment, when that person returns to society, he's some kind of newcomer to our society. He's been punished and he's coming back. You can compare that to a newcomer. You could say to a newcomer: if you want to play a role in our society, you have to sign this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u332	You cannot impose obligations on others through the Law of Integration. That's what you do in criminal law and in the sanctions that come with criminal law or criminal procedure. If that's what you want, you have to make a proposal. Signing the declaration should not be seen as a sanction, but as a right, a joy, a symbolic moment. It also starts with "welcome." It is also experienced by the people who have signed this declaration. I've been there myself; it's a moving moment. I don't even know if I would grant it to the people who have been convicted of discrimination. But that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u333	Okay, the minister's moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u334	The VVD identifies a political problem surrounding the functioning of the Participation Act. In my view, I have replied quite objectively that this law is only recently in force and that you can see in the evaluation whether, and to what extent, municipalities have made use of assistance opportunities to do things in this area as well. Municipalities do not need to be reminded of this. They are very aware of the possibilities they have with this legislation. I understand that this is a late explanation of the suggestion made in a daily newspaper that this minister was standing in the way of all kinds of wonderful proposals on integration. I do not think this is the case in practice. I am therefore pleased that I can reassure Mr Azmani on that point. The Labour Party indicates that it fits in with a positive, but at the same time clear integration policy that we are improving the law in this way. That appeals to me. I admit that there is more doubt about the statement in the evaluation, but it is not true that all of this is negative. That is too gloomy; they are less enthusiastic about it than about the route, but they are not all negative about it. You can't read that from that evaluation. I hope, therefore, that Mrs Voortman will not see any reason to give negative advice to her group. I would welcome it if the outcome of the debate is that it will advise its group to support the amendment of the law, because the wider it is adopted, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u335	This brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-10.u336	I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister. This is a sensitive subject, as we have all been able to see. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
