ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u1	The only speaker is Mrs Gesthuizen on behalf of the SP. This is her last appearance in this Chamber, so I am delighted to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u2	But the experience learns: you can never know it in this coven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u3	And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u4	That's right. Mr. Chairman. I did not do this debate myself. My colleague Michiel van Nispen, also spokesperson for Security and Justice, did so. I have tabled the motions because they are both particularly concerned with legal aid for foreigners, and I have always been particularly concerned about matters relating to foreigners, particularly immigrants and asylum seekers. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft decision reduces the number of points for legal aid for asylum seekers from safe countries from 12 to 4;]] [[whereas many groups are excluded from the safe country concept, as this country cannot be considered safe for them and the lawyer must have sufficient time to prove that an individual belongs to the excluded group;]] [[Whereas asylum seekers from safe countries who do not belong to an excluded group may also be entitled to asylum if they have individual grounds for doing so and this may cost the lawyer more than an asylum seeker from a country that has not been designated as safe;]] [[calls on the Government not to reduce the points for legal aid for asylum seekers from safe countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u5	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in early September 2016 the Van der Meer Committee was set up to evaluate the award of points of subsidised legal aid;]] [[noting that the current draft decision already makes changes to the allocation of points to foreign nationals while the committee has not yet completed its work;]] [[Considers that it is strange to set up a committee and then not to wait for its opinion and there is no reason to act with haste here;]] [[invites the Government to take the draft decision on legal aid to foreign nationals only after the Van der Meer Committee has delivered its opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u7	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen tabled two motions in response to a request for an amendment to the legal aid allowance in asylum procedures. This is the result of the amendment to the Foreign Affairs Decision introduced last year. In this sense, it is a purely technical measure which has no separate purpose. It would not be logical to leave the legal aid fee unchanged where the procedure itself has been changed and simplified. This would mean that we are actually going to pay too much for a simplified procedure. Against this background, I will give an opinion to the two motions. The motion in part No. 135, by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Swinkels, calls on the government not to reduce the points for legal aid for asylum seekers from safe countries. One of the key simplifications is that, in the vast majority of cases, asylum seekers from a safe country can be dealt with more quickly, which will result in rejection. The number of points now available is based on the average time spent on these simple procedures. The vast majority of these cases require little work. The four points we wish to make to these cases are sufficient for a case in accelerated procedure. In addition, the possibility remains to refer to a regular procedure if a case is complicated and cannot be dealt with more quickly. A wider legal aid fee is available for this purpose. We are talking about 12 points. I do not think this motion is appropriate, because it is simple procedures and at the same time the possibility remains open to move, if it is really necessary, to a heavier procedure. I advise against this motion. In the second motion by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Swinkels, they ask the government to take the draft decision on legal aid to foreign nationals only after the Van der Meer Committee has delivered its opinion. In the introduction I indicated that the present decision follows logically from an adaptation of the foreign decision. It's really a technical adjustment. The Van der Meer Committee has been asked to look at the compensation for legal aid and the points system used for that purpose. I am genuinely curious about the opinions of the Van der Meer Committee. The fact that a technical adjustment is now being made as a result of the amendment of the foreign decision is no reason for me to postpone this technical adjustment now. After all, it would mean paying too much for simple procedures. I must also discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u8	I'm just gonna make it a point of principle. I get a lot of requests from individual asylum seekers who ask me to look at their case again. In many of these cases, something went wrong, because a lawyer was initially insufficiently secure and did not spend enough time on the case. I am also receiving very good asylum lawyers at this time, and I know them in many cases, because I have been a spokesperson in this area for seven years now, to hear that it is no longer possible. How can the Minister say in this situation that he can do even less? That's just not what I want! Don't strangers also have the right to good legal aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u9	Strangers are entitled to good legal aid. However, it is quite logical that we should distinguish between foreigners whose chances of success, on the basis of track policy, are large and small. We also expressly leave open the possibility, where appropriate, of following a more intensive procedure. However, it is important that we assess in advance how likely the procedure is. Therefore, if the procedure is not viable, it will not be an extensive procedure. We will adapt the fee system accordingly. I can imagine that the lawyers are sad about that, but in the context of a sensible balance between, on the one hand, Mrs Gesthuizen is right in saying that she has a careful asylum procedure and legal aid and, on the other hand, the importance of not making costs that are not strictly necessary in the context of careful consideration, the track policy, and hence the adjustment of the compensation system, is a logical choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u10	In the interests of the people who need legal aid, I do not want to detract from the integrity of the lawyers who represent them. The Minister's qualification that the lawyers are saddened by that makes you think that they would only become sad because they are affected by it in their own pockets. I predict, and I shall conclude with this, that this will cause more problems within the right of asylum than we already see. This means that in the end the Secretary of State's office will be littered with requests from all sides of society to look at this matter again, because the law has not been applied there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u11	Does this lead you to any other advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u12	No. I also disagree with the statement that if you make a well-founded distinction between easy-to-assess cases and complex cases to be assessed, then the position of asylum seekers or the care of the procedure would suddenly be at stake. I don't share that analysis. It makes perfect sense to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u13	I have a question about the second motion. The thrust of this motion is: why does the Minister not wait for the Van der Meer Committee? Surely the Minister agrees with me that we are talking about average rates? I've just heard him use that term myself. It is an average rate where heavy and light goods are on average. Then you end up at an average rate. The Van der Meer Committee is also going to advise on whether you should separate that rate by rewarding the relatively lighter cases less. That is why I ask again why the Van der Meer committee should not wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u14	I've been talking about an average price within a track. Within the same track, that trail of simple procedures, one case can be looked at more intensively than the other. Even so, for the average of these points, this total is appropriate. Once again, the amendment that is now before us follows logically from last year's decision on track policy. We would really be failing reality by pretending that that decision has not been made and has no consequences. That decision has been made, and it has consequences. Then I do not think it can be defended to continue to pay more in structural terms than is necessary for proper legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u15	Finally, Mrs Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u16	That is precisely what is still under discussion, and the Van der Meer Committee is going to give its opinion on this matter, on whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u17	This is not a question of the consequences of last year's change, because there are consequences. In addition, the Van der Meer Committee has every freedom to come up with an opinion. It is not that we have a reason to continue to pay as if these simplifications have not taken place where we already have a clear picture of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-49.u18	I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I propose that we vote on the motions tabled tonight. I also propose that we proceed immediately to the next item on the agenda. I see that the players are already present.
