ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van Laar. He is supported in section K in the defence of the bill by Ms Punte, policy officer of the PvdA Group, and Ms Lin, intern of the PvdA Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this legislative initiative. The first term of office took place on 14 December. Today we are discussing the first-term response from the initiator and the Minister. Then we will continue with the second term. I am now the first to give the floor to Mr Van Laar for his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for their input in the first term and for the kind words that have been said about making such an initiative proposal, which is indeed a great deal of work. I would also like to thank the spokesmen for the good questions they have asked. I'm gonna try to answer them all after a general introduction. I am convinced that I am going to see the end of child labour in the world. The day all the kids go to school is getting closer. 2025 will probably not be, even if we have set it as a goal, but I will continue to fight with everything I have in my mind for it to happen as soon as possible. In any case, I have been assuming for a long time that every child is one. Every child saved from a factory has a chance of a new future. Any child released from a mine can begin his recovery. Every child who spares the misery of exploitation keeps an eye on the realization of his dreams. I have mainly spoken through my previous work to many children who have been exploited. When you talk to them, it's always the same thing. Their eyes are dull. The sparkle that characterizes a child's eye is gone. Their suffering has exhausted them and destroyed them. Yet there is also good news. Because that sparkle almost always comes back. Sometimes after weeks, sometimes after months and sometimes after years. But children are extremely resilient and they often adapt very quickly. They learn to play, dance and sing again. They're going back to school and they're gonna dream again. I am grateful to all the spokesmen for their input in the first term and note that we agree on the misery caused by child labour. The aim of the legislative proposal is to ensure that consumers can assume that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies that, within their ability, make efforts to prevent goods and services from being produced using child labour. I will begin with the statements of three parties, D66, the SGP and the PVV, which sum up very well the strength of this bill. In the first term, Mrs Van Veldhoven summed up the input of herself and other spokesmen and said: it is important to us, but what are we going to do about it? That is exactly the question I asked myself once I became a Member of Parliament: how do I find a legal way to get child labour out of our products and services? The result is this simple legislative proposal, which does not require companies to do more than they are already supposed to do, in order to prevent child labour from being used for their products or services. They must investigate the risks of child labour by consulting well-known sources. If there are risks, they need to make and implement a plan of action to ensure that child labour does not end up in their products or services. As Loesje says, it seems simple and it is. This bill creates a more level playing field, especially for small entrepreneurs. They no longer need to shoot in the foot to do something against child labour. Any supplier who wants his products to be sold in the Netherlands after 2020, if this law is introduced, will ensure that he fulfils his duty of care to prevent child labour. There will be demand for child labour-free cotton and so it will be delivered. Foreign companies will want to show that their products and services are child labour-free, because they want to deliver their products to Ndederland consumers. Moreover, companies that already do something against child labour no longer need to compete with companies that refuse to take a step against child labour. Tony's Chocolonely and Nestlé, for example, asked for attention. They have ambitious plans to combat child labour, but they compete with companies that do not. That is precisely what gives us a level playing field. Mr Dijkgraaf rightly pointed that out. The most beautiful support of this law came from the PVV. Mr De Roon is not here right now. It may not have happened to everyone, but Mr De Roon said that products will become more expensive because "there will be no more child labour, but more expensive adult labour." It's always nice when your biggest opponent acknowledges that your proposal will have exactly the effect you want. I would like to thank Mr De Roon very much for this, even though he is not here today. I agree with him that this law will eliminate child labour from our products. By the way, I do not share the view that these products will then be much more expensive. Labour costs in an average product are less than 1% of the final price. Making a T-shirt now only costs 18 cents. With a little child labour you can make 14 cents of that but certainly not much less. What will make production more expensive is that we know that adult wages will increase if they no longer have to compete with children. Even then, however, it is only a few cents per product and not percentage points. So I dare say that this law is not really going to hit the Dutch consumer in the wallet. I shall now turn to the questions. I shall begin with some general questions and the questions about the relationship between this law and the covenants. I shall then look in turn at the OECD directives, the investigation and the plan of action, the scope of the law, supervision and prosecution, accompanying policy, finance and some other questions. Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 has asked who is or is not covered by this law. On the recommendation of the Council of State, a broad definition of entities covered by this law has been chosen. A foreign company can also be fined and if that fine is not paid, that company cannot, as far as I am concerned, be in a production chain. The company will no longer be able to deliver to the Netherlands. With the publication of the register in which it is kept, as D66 and the Christian Union would like, it will be obvious to everyone that such a company or sub-contractor has a fine open. Mr Voordewind asked why I did not opt for a restriction to sectors of risk and countries of risk. In a way, I did. I ask the company to investigate the risks of child labour in their product. This is done on the basis of known sources. If raw materials and products are not taken from countries at risk and sectors at risk, then we will soon be ready. However, the law leaves it up to each company to determine whether or not it is covered by that law and whether or not it should make a plan of action. For example, there is a lot of textiles in products that do not fall within the textile sector. Products of child labour also come from countries that are not countries at risk. Think of leather from Italy. A company can see for itself whether there are risks of child labour in its products and services. If this is not the case, the company will not be taxed, other than that it will be asked to issue a statement of at least one sentence. It can simply be said that one is acting in accordance with the OECD directives on child labour and then one is ready. That's all this law requires. The SGP, D66 and the CDA asked questions about how this law relates to the improv agreements, the agreements on international corporate social responsibility. They are currently being closed down in different sectors. Covenant parties must comply with the international guidelines for corporate responsibility. There is still no certainty as to the degree of bindingness and effectiveness. For example, the signatories are not obliged to immediately implement the OECD directives on child labour. By agreement, it will be explained whether, and at what time, companies will have to comply with their child labour care obligations. For example, no deadlines have been included in the textile agreement and child labour is expected to be dealt with only in a few areas. The Chamber has adopted a motion that states that this should be final by 2020, but it is only a question of whether the companies will take it out of their own hands. Moreover, these agreements do not apply to all sectors or even to all sectors at risk. In these sectors, too, not all companies will participate in these agreements. And we want that level playing field. Companies that do not sign a covenant are in no way accountable to or bound by compliance with those OECD directives, even if they are asked to comply with them. Consumers can therefore not yet assume, on the basis of a single import agreement, that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies that make efforts within their ability to prevent their goods and services from being produced using child labour. Colleague Servaes described it in first term in cycling terms: this law is the broom truck, all the way at the back of the field. With this law we raise the ground to make the playing field more level and we do so for every company, big or small, covenant partner or not. This law is expressly not a substitute for the covenants, because the covenants deal with many more imvo-risks and contain very different agreements. I also hope that there will be agreements with far more ambitious agreements than this law requires of companies. The law wants to be supportive and stimulating to the covenant process. Because all companies have to work with their chain responsibility, we expect the desire to participate in the covenants to increase. Within the covenants, a lot of useful knowledge is exchanged about the investigation of production chains. In addition, the law provides that a joint approach plan may be approved by the Minister. A covenant that is firmly committed to child labour is perfect for this. This gives companies certainty and ensures that companies are not taxed extra by this law if they comply with the covenants and good agreements on child labour in the covenant. A joint plan of action can also be drawn up independently of a covenant. The CDA asked what else might be in covenants which would help to combat child labour. There are many things that companies can do, that are not in the covenants and that do not require this law from them either. For example, giving every worker a living wage would help a lot, because then his or her children would no longer have to work. And indirect child labour, as we recently read in a report on the Bangladesh clothing industry, is then prevented. Being completely transparent about your chain and open to third-party controls is not what this law requires and is not what is agreed in the covenants, but it would help enormously. And also contributing to system solutions against child labour, so looking further than your own chain is long and wide, would help enormously. But none of that is in this law. For investments in system solutions, we have established the Child Labour Fighting Fund, which, thanks to the motion of the Labour Party, D66 and the Christian Union, will have a structural budget of EUR 10 million from next year. I expect companies, together with organisations, to make use of this fund and to invest more in effective solutions to the problem of child labour. We want to help companies that are part of the solution to play that role. Only with companies can we stop child labour. Companies such as Tony's Chocolonely and Nestlé, who publicly support this law, stress that they need a more level playing field, the playing field that this law creates. We want to continue to support these types of companies. I'm moving on to the OECD guidelines block. The VVD stated that industry should already comply with OECD standards. That's right. The VVD also stated that compliance with these OECD standards is therefore common practice. Those are the words Mr. Bishop used... no, Mr. Clustering in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u3	That's someone else!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yes, there was confusion about Mr Bishop this afternoon, even though he did not take part in the debate at all. Mr. Chairman. I am very curious about the support of the VVD of the thesis that this is indeed common practice. The best translation I could find for "common practice" is that it would be an "everyday practice," the normal way of doing things. Unfortunately, I do not think that is the case, but look at the cautious steps that companies are taking towards or in those agreements. There is still a great deal of unfamiliarity with the OECD guidelines. This was recently confirmed by a study by the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development, the VBDO, which showed that only one third of 60 listed companies investigated actually comply with OECD guidelines. In addition, reports on child labour in chains appear on the assembly line, not only far hidden but also in the first link for delivery to the Netherlands. I therefore believe that it is far from everyday that the OECD directives are being complied with. I am therefore very curious about the second term of the VVD of this thesis. The Christian Union asked about the three principles of the OECD directives: protection, recovery and redress. We agree with Mr Voordewind that they are inextricably linked. Mr Voordewind further stated that this law does not give child labourers better access to justice or compensation. I believe that this law will take care of that. After all, companies must draw up a plan of action in accordance with the OECD guidelines, including the three principles. Victims can use this law to report to a company and demand a solution that complies with the company's plan of action, which in turn complies with the OECD guidelines. If the company fails to do so, the law offers further possibilities. One can go to the supervisor or even go to the judge. In the explanatory memorandum, I described what the accompanying policy should look like, both from companies and from the government. Those three principles are also enshrined in this report. The Christian Union also asked whether we could not define the due diligence in a broad way. Can't we look at all the possible imvo risks? I have deliberately chosen to focus this initiative law on child labour. What is child labour is laid down in internationally binding ILO conventions; the ILO is the International Labour Organisation. There is a clear objective in the world's goals to eradicate child labour by 2025. It is also clear in the Chamber that the hatred of child labour is widely felt. This discussion has been going on for more than 20 years. It started with the knotting of carpets for IKEA in India. As we know, IKEA has now become a precursor in the fight against child labour. Other companies have not yet been followed to the same extent. We now know that child labour is also one of the most important barriers to development. Child labour is linked with so much misery and injustice that, as far as I am concerned, it is now time to make those who encourage child labour legally responsible for this. Moreover, there is a more important three-year work in this law. We have worked out very precisely how it can be designed so that it fits within those international conventions, directives, trade agreements and other relevant laws and regulations. I therefore urge you not to add new issues to this law now. I come to a series of questions from Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP about the research and the plan of action. The minimum requirements for this research are set out in the ILO/IOE Child Labour Guidance Tool for Business. They're actually only explained in five pages. The entire Guidance is 68 pages long, but the relevant piece is 5 pages. Well, that's easy to handle. The risks must therefore be identified. This is done by the company on the basis of known sources and with consultation of stakeholders. The company then prioritises the risks it is going to combat. The company must be able to account for this prioritization. The size of the company, the countries in which it operates, the structure of the company, the nature of the sector or sectors in which it operates and the complexity of the chain determine the possibilities that a company has and should exploit. It is not enough to ask your supplier if there is no child labour in products, even if he signs a contract for that. A company must ensure that the care exercised by a supplier complies with the OECD Guidelines. If that is not the case, the company itself must look deeper into the chain. The capacity, size and so on of the undertaking concerned shall also be taken into account. The directives take this into account, and the regulator will also have to do so. Many companies will not be able to look much further on their own than one link or a few links in their chain, but if they organise themselves they can, for example. On a case-by-case basis, there will have to be attention to what is reasonable. It is sufficient to look at your supplier only if the supplier has issued a statement to the supervisor himself, because the supplier is then accountable on the basis of this law. I expect suppliers who want to sell their products or services in the Netherlands to take care of this, precisely in order to spare the sellers. Legal certainty is also enshrined in this law that the regulator first gives a binding indication, i.e. a warning with a direction of resolution. For example, a company always knows what the supervisor expects in concrete terms. Only if the undertaking fails to comply with the designation can a fine be imposed. I do not therefore expect many fines to be imposed on the basis of this law. That's not the point either. The aim is for companies to conduct research and a sound plan of action. Personally, I hope it will never be necessary to pass such a fine. This will not happen if companies make reasonable efforts to prevent child labour in their products and services. Mr Dijkgraaf also asked about the plan of action. Companies dealing with child labour risks must make an effort. They need to identify what the company can do to prevent or solve child labour and where they need others, such as governments or organisations. They also need to make an analysis of their leverage. Where do they influence, where do they have the ability to enforce that change? Of course, cooperation can help. For example, the textile industry said that one cannot buy child labour-free cotton on the free cotton market because the origin of cotton is often not traceable. The cotton is sometimes in storage for months and then no one knows where it comes from. When I then asked whether child labour-free cotton would be on the market if there was demand, the answer was immediately yes, because there is also, for example, a market for organic cotton. Where that comes from, people know exactly. If companies selling products in the Netherlands are all asking for child labour-free raw materials, there will also be an offer. That's how our global economy works, thank God. Businesses can therefore also develop a joint approach that can be approved. This, too, gives companies certainty. For both the research and the approach plan, the government still needs to come up with an overall measure of governance to further elaborate and specify this, of course in accordance with the OECD guidelines. In the letter of amendment, I thoroughly revised Article 4 in order to respond to the comments made by Mr Dijkgraaf and others. This letter of amendment significantly promotes the legal certainty of companies compared to the previous version, as I am assured, and provides sufficient legal certainty. The plan of action also applies, of course, to the principle that the supervisor should first give a binding indication if that is not in order. D66 asked whether it is possible to include in the General Measure on the plan of approach how companies can deal with ongoing contracts that cannot be changed before 2020. As far as I'm concerned, that's a reasonable request. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. In any case, I have opted for a broad period of application in order to avoid this kind of problem as much as possible. Should these occur, it is appropriate to clarify this in the General Measure of Governance, so that companies know how to do and how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u5	I would like to give Mr Van Laar his sip of water and a short rest period, but that is not why I am standing here. Mr Van Laar has said a few times that there will be an AMvB with a rather important interpretation. This will be discussed, at least if the AMvB comes along. In my view, this is not covered by the initiative proposal. How does Mr Van Laar feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u6	The initiative proposal provides for the AMvB to be introduced. As far as I am concerned, the Chamber is asking for it to go through the Chamber by means of a heavy procedure. I think this is more up to the Chamber than to the petitioner, because I do not think it can be incorporated into the law itself, although perhaps it can. The General Measure of Governance is so relevant that the Chamber should certainly look into it. You can draw the parallel to the treaty for people with disabilities. It is also agreed to work out certain things in an AMvB. That AMvB also went through the Chamber at that time, and that was a substantive discussion. That seems very relevant to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u7	That's good. As far as I know, it's not necessarily necessary to include this in the law. I think a commitment from the one who deals with the law is enough. I am looking at the Minister in particular. I would like to hear from her later on whether she intends to do so if the law is passed. Then I do not think we need to lay it down in the law, because then we can always come back to the promise that there will be a heavy veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u8	I support Mr Dijkgraaf. D66 and the SGP asked questions about the scope of the proposal. On the recommendation of the Council of State, a broad definition of the entities covered by this law has been chosen. If this proves necessary in practice, this can be done in the AMvB which is incorporated into the law. Foreign companies that want to supply products to the Netherlands already have to deal with all kinds of provisions on permitted products, quantities and so on. If a company is unable to understand relevant provisions in all countries where it sells products, it should not deliver to the countries. Last but not least, companies know that they are subject to the law by writing to the regulator. I assume that multinationals such as Amazon, which was mentioned as an example, really have their international due diligence in place. Otherwise it is high time, because this company has 250,000 employees. You may expect it to put some energy into this. The chance of getting caught, about which the SGP spoke, is small if you look at the number of fines and convictions to be expected. However, I think that the chances of companies making efforts to combat child labour in their production chains are very high. This also teaches the example of the anti-bribery law in the United Kingdom. Companies had their policies in order in no time, because it moved from what I always call the charity department to the risk management department. That is where risks are dealt with in a slightly different way. Moreover, a company that does not comply with a binding designation of the supervisor knows that it will be fined on the basis of this law. That's not a good commercial. I do not think that a company likes to be convicted because it has not made sufficient efforts to prevent child labour. I therefore expect companies to follow these indications in 99% or 100% of the cases. That is exactly what I wanted with this proposal: as many companies as possible that have their approach to child labour in order, not as many companies as possible that are fined. The VVD, D66, the CDA, the SGP and the Christian Union have asked questions about the choice of the supervisor. I have a preference for a new independent impo-supervisor, because this is a new branch of sport, it's pioneers. However, in the proposal, I initially chose the Authority for Consumer and Market, because I did not want to burden the discussion on this law with the discussion on a new supervisor. The vast majority of my advisers also point to the Authority for Consumer and Market as the most appropriate of the existing supervisors. However, I have included in the letter of amendment that the supervisor will be included in such an AMvB. This will allow a subsequent cabinet to consider the necessary legal powers, the place and organisation of the supervisor. The ACM, the Labour Inspectorate, the NVWA and the new supervisor are possible options. There's plenty of reason to look into this carefully. However, the design of the law is such that an existing supervisor with only a Dutch mandate can supervise the law. That's how the law was designed. The supervisor shall assess whether the investigation has been carried out, whether a plan of approach has been drawn up if necessary and whether that plan of approach has been put into practice. That is without the authority to investigate abroad. Then I'm gonna get to the criminal charges. D66's questions about the driver and his liability have led to the amendment of this proposal. The letter of amendment states that it must be the second time that the same offence has been committed by the undertaking, either on commission or under the actual direction of the same director. Hopefully I have met the concerns of D66. The SGP asked whether it would simply increase the budget for the D.A.'s office would not be a solution. I do not think that all companies in the Netherlands will act with due care if every year a few companies have to justify themselves to the courts. In the proposal, we are making this due diligence mandatory in itself. We ask companies to declare that they apply this care. The strength of the law is that we do it through administrative law and that a supervisor can also supervise it through the Dutch powers. For example, we expect that this will have more effect than simply condemning some companies that are acting terribly badly. The CDA asked if this law actually solves the problem. The purpose of this bill is to enable consumers to assume that the goods and services they buy on the Dutch market are sold by companies that make efforts within their ability to prevent the creation of goods and services using child labour. That's not the case at the moment. In any case, the law will make a decisive contribution to resolving that problem. The CDA would also like to know how many children will be helped by this law. If the VVD is right and the OECD standards are already common practice are none, because then nothing will change. But if I and the many reports are right, many companies need to step up. Since they don't know how many children they are talking about, I can't make an estimate of that either. The responsibility of companies to provide the children concerned with an appropriate solution stems from the ILO Conventions and the OECD Guidelines, which have also been agreed by industry representatives. Companies that want to implement system solutions against child labour and therefore want to help even more children can, of course, call on the Children's Labour Fund. The CDA asked about the control of child labour-free companies. These are not, in principle, faced with the law if they are truly child labour-free. Only a concrete report of child labour that is not handled properly by a company can it be dealt with by this law. So a company that claims to be child labour-free and actually is, will never be dealt with by this law and will not be charged any further. D66 asked about the costs of supervision and the budget of EUR 1 million. What's that based on? I have actually based this on the most similar organisation we know in the Netherlands, the National Contact Point OECD guidelines (NCP). It is now housed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has an annual budget of €450,000. A register is attached to this law. That register will also have to be kept and filled in. I expect that will entail additional costs. And I therefore expect that these costs will not exceed EUR 1 million in total, more than twice the budget of the NCS. The budget will have to be found in the 2019 budget. We don't know them at the moment. There's an assignment for the next cabinet. As far as I am concerned, coverage is found within the non-legally compulsory non-ODA expenditure within the HGIS note. The CDA asked what could be done at European level to bring companies into child labour-free products and services. As far as I am concerned, there will be European legislation that requires maximum effort to prevent child labour, as I described earlier. Unfortunately, there is no basis for regulation that requires even the minimum of what I write in this law. I hope, however, that once the law has been passed, it will soon be followed up in other European countries and perhaps even at European level. This has been done before, for example with the Dutch legislation on seal fur. First there was a European objection. Then we looked at that law and it turned out to be so reasonable that it became a European directive. Mr Voordewind asked whether the law could also enter into force earlier. I think this law is gonna have an impact once it's passed. Companies must implement the duty of care to prevent child labour. Other parties have indicated that this can be revised as contracts. Those are indeed good times. This law gives companies a clear deadline: by 2020 it must be completely in order. But the register that Mr Voordewind is asking for, also publicly, can of course start earlier. In any case, that would be my suggestion, so that companies can see as early as possible which companies have already made a statement. Then they can also choose a supplier that fits this law. As far as I'm concerned, it would be great if in three years' time we could get things in order. The government can also opt to have the law come into force later, if necessary. So there is also this option, if it is not possible to work out everything properly by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u9	I will consult with Mrs Van Veldhoven on the opening of the register in 2018. Maybe I'll come up with a motion on that. However, I did touch on the last sentence. Mr Van Laar says that the government can still choose to postpone it. Why does the initiator leave that option open in the law? Why would he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u10	I don't think you can put a hard date for entry into force into a law. Such a date ultimately always depends on publication in the Official Journal et cetera. In any case, I said that the law should not enter into force until 1 January 2020. I do not think it would be reasonable for this to happen, because companies would have to move too quickly. Should it really be necessary, it may enter into force later. It is, of course, not the intention of the author that it should be later. But let me just say: if the need is for the man, then the government can decide in due course to wait a little longer. I can't imagine there's any reason to let it go later, but there are parties that are worried about that. If there are those reasons, the government can decide to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u11	The interpretation of the author is also decisive for the content of the law. I hear him now saying that at least as far as he is concerned, the law should enter into force by 2020. That's comforting. We are therefore still trying to open the register on a voluntary basis as early as 2018 by means of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u12	Certainly, I agree with both points. Perhaps the opening of that register could also simply be dealt with by a commitment from the Minister. We'll see how that goes. I think I have answered all the questions raised in the first period. After three years of working on this law, I owe many thanks. To thank them, I would like to use one more word of speaking time. I would like to thank the trainees and the staff who have made this initiative proposal possible. I call Anjel Punte and Olivia Lin. They're behind me in "K." But I should also mention Jorien de Jong, Monique Christiaanse, Tessel van Westen, Hannah Toben, Mijke Elbers and Jasper van Teeffelen. I would also like to express special thanks for various organisations and companies. I refer in particular to Tony's Chocolonely, UNICEF, Nestlé, Stop Child Labour, Save the Children and Terre des Hommes. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Chamber and their colleagues for their constructive thinking and for the time they have spent in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u13	When is the response to the amendments? Does Mr Van Laar intend to give it in second term? Maybe it'll be useful for our second term if we've had that reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u14	I intended to do so in the second term, because I assume that parties will also want to explain them in the debate. 'Cause if I don't, I'm gonna have to explain them. Furthermore, someone who listens to the debate does not know what has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u15	Then let's just do it in second term. Then, of course, I will give you an opportunity to respond, if you wish. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the members of your Chamber for the contribution in the first term. That's how I usually start, but now it's very different. Now my thanks go to Mr Van Laar. It is an incredible job for a Member of Parliament to come forward with an initiative proposal. It is not for nothing that Mr Van Laar has had to call in competent support forces for this. It always seems like something to mark. Moreover, Mr Van Laar has been very active in the fight against child labour in the last four years that I have experienced him in this role. He has not only brought the matter to the attention of the House in words and put forward proposals, but also in practice. He and Mrs Van Veldhoven, for example, have given birth to a new Fund for Combating Child Labour through a budget amendment. Everyone can remember numerous debates in which the issue of child labour was raised. By the way, he had good friends. I mentioned Mrs Van Veldhoven, but I think it is also fair to call Mr Voordewind. So it was carried by many and that has resulted in this initiative legislative proposal. Let me begin by saying that, of course, the cabinet is in favour of combating child labour. We've talked about that before. I think it is also clear to everyone why we are taking up this position. Mr Van Laar's own-initiative proposal focuses on a specific aspect of this situation. He wants to embed the norm around due diligence more firmly. Given the scale of child labour and the evil it does, it is good that there is a broad commitment. I should also like to say a few words about the government's commitment. If we look at this proposal now, the cabinet has a number of serious comments, which I will mention, and which, by the way, are addressed in part by Mr Van Laar himself in his first term, because some of these concerns were also expressed by the Chamber. Maybe it is good to start with the coherent policy area. Mr Van Laar said something about the covenants. What's that all about? I've had to think about that myself. You don't want to double-do things, but you don't want to leave anything behind. Mr Van Laar already mentioned that not all sectors and not all companies participate in these agreements. I think that's a ground to say that the covenants are very good, but they don't cover everything. The cabinet also had questions about implementation and enforcement. Mrs Mulder, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Dijkgraaf also discussed this. This proposal combines administrative and criminal enforcement. Administrative enforcement is simpler than criminal enforcement. In this way, the implementation costs remain limited; something that we are all in favour of. The regulator does not have to control business chains at home and abroad. He must review a company's due diligence plans and have sufficient internal investigative powers to do so. In the initiative proposal, Mr Van Laar makes the choice for a very specific supervisor. He mentioned the ACM, but there may also be other bodies suitable. There isn't one body that has this package under her care. It is also a question of how the standard of due diligence is met. I'll say something about that later. We must prevent the regulatory powers of the supervisory authority from being insufficient to maintain. The cabinet thinks it wise to reconsider that. We welcome the fact that Mr Van Laar has explicitly taken this into account in his letter of amendment. I'm here to deal with the implementation costs. I just said something about that. Mrs Van Veldhoven has also asked questions about this. This is, of course, pioneering work. It's a little digging. The best comparison material we have is the OECD National Contact Point guidelines. Its staffing and equipment costs about €450,000 a year. If this bill is adopted, the regulator may have to deal with more complaints than the NCS. The NCA shall mediate between the parties. That is a very intensive process, but it does not have to be done with this bill. The EUR 1 million budget per year seems sufficient to me. This is covered by my budget, also because the date of import is still awaiting, without any violence against other important programmes. I come to the proper care. It needs to be defined well or better. Both the companies concerned and the supervisor must have certainty. I follow the advice of the Council of State. It is important that there is a clear and unambiguous standard, including with regard to legal enforcement and criminalisation. Further details are needed on this point. The initiator indicated in the letter of amendment that this can be further completed per AMvB. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether it should be submitted to the Lower House and the Upper Chamber by means of a heavy procedure. My answer to that would be yes. That would do justice to the importance of such an AMvB. The cabinet thinks that's a good process. I'll get to the current contracts. Due diligence is a continuous process. The OECD guidelines are part and parcel of this. The author has already spoken about this. The problem of new and ongoing contracts is real. That is the reality. But of course we do not want to put companies at a disadvantage if they cannot get out of current contracts. We also heard the initiator talk about the deadline for the adoption of the law. I imagine that companies will therefore have the opportunity to review their contracts in advance in the context of the ongoing process that has to be carried out. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked which directors are involved in the criminalisation. That is an important question, because criminalisation is a serious matter. The cabinet also had concerns about this, but I have to say that this point has been clarified in the letter of amendment. A new driver cannot be prosecuted for the mistakes of a predecessor. Given the interests of companies, which are of course also relevant and legitimate, the cabinet believes that the petitioner has rightly adapted this. There was also a question about enforcement: how can the supervisor identify the companies? That's kind of complicated. The cabinet thought of a more unambiguous threshold to be measured. There is still a need for further clarification on this point. That is not up to the petitioner, the Chamber or the cabinet. It depends on the fact that the European Commission uses a different classification of companies than the CBS. If I am right, the CBS is looking at turnover and the number of staff, while the European Commission is looking at turnover. It's hard to compare. It does, however, listen closely. The cabinet is therefore keen to see to it that there is a clear threshold to be measured. Whichever one that is can be looked at later. In any case, it must be one that is not misunderstandingal. I come to the cost of business. Mr Geselschap, then new, but also Mrs Mulder, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr De Roon raised this point. We have looked at what the law could cost business. That's an important question. The cabinet feels the responsibility to do justice to that side of the chain and to those affected by this law, as I said. The best reference we could find is the Modern Slavery Act from the UK. I say to Mr Dijkgraaf that we have also looked at this initiative. Under this Modern Slavery Act, companies must also give a statement about their due diligence. The UK government has calculated the cost of this. It covers a wide range of pounds converted into euros, €98 to €787. That is to be seen, especially since the OECD directives already monitor due diligence. And the chain research and the plan of approach are also expected on the basis of the UN Guiding Principles. I would like to inform Mr Dijkgraaf that proposals similar to this bill are circulating in France and Switzerland. In France, it is at the parliamentary stage. In Switzerland, it is intended to be voted on by referendum. There are therefore different initiatives in different countries. Mr Voordewind asked about the 'I hope I pronounce it well', ISEAL Alliance. That's the dome of labels. He asked if we could do something with that in the fight against child labour. We may need to go into that again at another time. It has a relationship with this initiative proposal, but we can also have separate discussions about it. We've talked about it before. Buying certified products can never replace due diligence as stated in the UN Guiding Principles. Mr Voordewind suggested that we could use certification to stop products at the border. It's got hooks and eyes on it. First of all, not everything is certified. A non-certified company can produce or assemble a product that meets all requirements, while there is no label for that sector for some reason. That wouldn't be fair. Secondly, it would be badly related to WTO rules. So we really do not see this as so promising that we do not disqualify labels as such. Anyway, Mr Voordewind knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u17	The Minister mentions WTO rules. We also do this with labels for sustainable wood. We don't allow blood diamonds anymore. The Minister is right that you should do it especially at European level. It should therefore work towards this goal at European level. And it is not all products, of course, because not all products need to have labels. They are products from countries at risk and from sectors at risk. The Minister now has 12 agreements in high-risk sectors in countries at risk. So that's how you could narrow it down. Then it would be feasible, although of course you always have to have a long breath. You have to do it Europeanly, I agree with that, but I think it is feasible if we all want to do it. The Americans are doing it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u18	I have to get used to the fact that in a few weeks' time the election recess will be, because I am full of good will to look at this again, but I don't want that to become an empty promise. After all, we do not know to what extent we can go through with it. However, this is an important point in the whole of the imvo policy. We've talked about it before. There is no harm at all in me going to look again at whether there has perhaps been any room in it since the last time we went into it. That is my promise. Maybe positions have changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u19	Fine, then I'll know if there are any reservations. And maybe we'll see each other again in the election campaign; then we can exchange it there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u21	A new report has been issued today on child labour in Bangladesh from the Stop Child Labour Alliance. That alliance also indicates the importance of a living wage. The Minister is working on the covenants. Does it also intend to denounce living wages as a condition or as an important part of all agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u22	The parties of the covenant in consultation determine the scope of the covenant and, of course, want to link feasible objectives to it. The dialogue between the parties is always difficult, because NGOs and companies do not always agree. We are party to these covenants. We have not prescribed what should or should not be in it. We do raise the issue of living wages in the agreements, but we cannot say that you will also include objectives for them. But we're bringing it in. In addition, in the textile industry in particular, we have developed a number of initiatives to work with companies and other authorities on the route to a living wage, which I believe should be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u23	Excuse me, I just want one more step back. We have just heard about the costs, which my colleague Agnes Mulder had asked for. The minister said something like 90 to 900 pounds. I was just reproducing that. Is that a company? By product? What do I get for it? It is, in my view, a very low amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u24	It was 98 to 787.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u25	Yeah, that's right, and we already converted it into euros. That's the cost per company. These costs are mainly related to due diligence, the process they have to go through and the preparation of a possible plan of action. The applicant has tried to find a good balance in this initiative proposal between what it considers effective and the costs for companies. I'm speaking for him now, but that's as I understood it. The Modern Slavery Act is rather spicy, if I may put it that way. That's why we dared to compare. The bandwidth is very large. This has to do with the size of the company and with the type of chain. This is what we can now say you can turn it off a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u26	This looks like something for the fact checker. It's a big difference whether you're making a product like honest chocolate with five ingredients that you have to find out if it's going well in the chain, or a machine with thousands of components. In the extreme situation you don't get there with €1,000. I very much wonder what I get for that amount, regardless of the product and the size of the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u27	The Modern Slavery Act oversees a statement about due diligence. That is also what this proposal for an initiative is asking for. So we have taken the same part of the process of the Modern Slavery Act as is the subject of this initiative legislative proposal. This is, as far as we know, the range of costs. Finally, I would like to say a few words about accompanying policy. Mr Servaes has asked questions about this and others have also referred to it. The Fund for Combating Child Labour, created by Mr Van Laar and Mrs Van Veldhoven, is of course part of this. But we do more. We are a very active player in the international work organisation, which plays an important role. We support its Better Work Programme, which monitors child labour, especially in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Vietnam. We support ILO programmes aimed at strengthening labour inspections. Enforcement is of course also very important. The Better Work Programme mentioned above is part of the support we give to ILO. In addition to the fund we have just mentioned, that is the most important commitment. You can pull it wide and then we will do much more to help combat child labour. Ensure that parents have decent work, ensure that there are health care facilities, ensure that vocational training is provided: all this commitment contributes to strengthening the economy of a country and to inclusive growth that everyone can benefit from in the good sense of the word. That also helps to eradicate child labour. If that is the case, we will be talking to fellow ministers about this. I must admit that it has become a larger part of my work because of the commitment of the Chamber. The people I mentioned. It is a larger part than at the beginning of this cabinet period. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's As has already been said, the cabinet is in favour of combating child labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u28	We had an imvo debate in which I had asked questions about the VAT differentiation. At that time the Minister said that I had to ask this question during the plenary debate. She would give me an overview of the possibilities for her consultation with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u29	Shame shoots me at the jaws, if that's the way you say it. I think I have an appointment with Mr Wiebes next Friday. This is a state of affairs, but I would, of course, have liked to tell Mr Voordewind something more, something more substantive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you very much for this question. We shall now begin with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank Mr Van Laar and his entire team for all their efforts. I would also like to thank the Minister, but she has a rather bigger device to help her than a Member of Parliament, so I would like to thank Mr Van Laar very much. Mr Van Laar asked me a question and I will start with the answer. His question was about the common practice. What I meant was that having to respect OECD standards is common practice. When I read it back myself, I have to admit that I did not put it very carefully in my maiden speech. We can therefore say that I have not complied with the due diligence laid down in this law. I hope to do so further in this debate. Kids belong in school. Kids working in factories isn't normal. That is why it is also good that the Netherlands is committed in many ways to the fight against child labour. We have heard the Minister give a nice list under the heading 'accompanying policy'. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is not a flanking policy; it is just the policy we have now. This law is an addition to that. The aim of this accompanying policy is to ensure that these children actually attend school, while the aim of this law is to protect Dutch consumers from accidentally getting their hands on child labour products. I think it's even more important for the kids to come to school. When I look at the issues raised in the first term, I see that it is mainly about the concepts of 'appropriate care' and 'enforceability'. Those are two important criteria. Both have chosen to further regulate them with General Measure of Governance. I see that as a bit of a flight forward myself. The delay in these two important matters means that they have not yet been resolved. So we keep a law with loose ends, loose ends on really important issues. Is it really not possible to come up with a solution for these matters now? My grandmother used to say, "hasty rush is rarely good." I see that haste on more points. For example, the imvo agreements are in full development and the Child Labour Combat Fund still needs to become operational. I asked in the first period if there were any possibilities of using that fund for the covenants. We are also looking for other ways to tighten these agreements. In February, this Chamber will hold round tables on this subject, which will probably bring all kinds of good ideas to the table. But the rush is so great that we cannot wait for it. We cannot even wait for the Child Labour Fund to actually open next week. With this law, we simply want things to be settled too quickly and too early, and that is what we want when the date of entry into force of this law is 2020. Let's just take a little more time. It is not for nothing that the Council of State advised us to wait for the results of the covenants. Proportional policy is also to check whether your policy is successful before taking far-reaching measures. Moreover, we must look not only at proportionality, but also at effectiveness, costs and review under higher law. The Council of State's judgment on effectiveness was rather harsh, to be honest. There were serious doubts about effectiveness. Unfortunately, I have not seen in the changes and the reaction any issues that provide a supporting justification for that effectiveness. VNO-NCW even states that the initiative law could lead to less results. Now I'm gonna go into the cost. In addition to enforcement costs, there are costs for companies. We've heard an assessment. I calculated it just as quickly: based on 1.5 million companies in the Netherlands, the introduction costs for Dutch businesses are somewhere between EUR 150 million and EUR 1.2 billion. That's a lot of money. That may be necessary for a good cause, but spending as much money as the effectiveness is uncertain is not normal. Especially since these companies' accounts end up with the consumer. I come to my final point, the higher right. The initiative law lays down requirements for goods on the Dutch market. However, we have a European internal market, where the idea is that all these products should be subject to the same requirements. The initiative law seems to be in conflict with this and thus contrary to higher European law. Now there are justifications for doing so, but those justifications are linked to proportionality and demonstrable effectiveness. Those are, to put it mildly, just debatable. That is why I have a question for the Minister as an advisor to this Chamber. Can you guarantee the Chamber that this initiative law is in line with European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Geselschap began by admitting that in his first term, a few weeks ago, he had not been entirely careful about whether companies complied with OECD standards or not. Compliments for that! It's always good if you look back on it that way. However, he has not yet responded to the substance. A large part of his speech was at the time: companies already comply with OECD standards, so it is not necessary. You could say: the urgency argument. We now know, even after the words of the initiator, Mr Van Laar, that only one third of listed companies comply with these OECD standards. I would ask Mr Geselschap to respond to what he did not say very carefully last time. There is certainly that urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u33	In the speech of the last time, the VVD's theorem was: let's first wait for the results of the IMVO agreements and on the Fund Combating Child Labour, especially the combination of both, and then look further. This is in addition to the fact that Mr Servaes refers to the fact that some of the OECD standards are already being complied with. What I have just learned from Mr Van Laar's speech is that it is evident that there is still a lack of communication and awareness of OECD standards among industry. Why do we not spend money on this before we take measures that we have just calculated could involve up to EUR 1 billion in implementation costs, not least for the one-off initial costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u34	It's not like we've never done that before. These OECD standards, of course, have been in place for a long time. We work very well with business organisations from a political point of view. Work has been under way for a number of years to bring about the sectoral agreements. Apparently, it's not enough. If it were enough, the problem would be solved, I would say the other way around. When all companies know that these OECD standards are there and act accordingly, they will also have no problems with this law. The law is meant to be a stick behind the door. Does Mr Geselschap recognise that it is still necessary at the moment and that we still have ample time to do so, and he is right to say that haste is rarely a good thing to use that period until 2020 to inform all companies adequately about the fact that this has to be done under the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u35	There's definitely more to do. I agree with Mr Servaes on this point. Otherwise, we would indeed already be on a 100% score, which we are not on right now. The association agreements referred to by Mr Servaes are still in full development and are being worked on. We have heard about new initiatives, the child labour fund will open on Monday at least; the closing date is 30 April. Let's see what comes out of that! Perhaps these are fantastic things that really tackle the problems and that really help the children behind the assembly line in Bangladesh so that they can go back to the school banks instead. Well, back? I'm afraid they won't be able to go to school until the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u36	I don't have the illusion that we're gonna get out and we're gonna cross the VVD at 11 o'clock. I find it annoying that the VVD does not actually have any fundamental objections to this proposal, but that it wants to wait quietly. I think the problem is too big for that. If there is such a big problem, with 168 million children doing child labour, then you must try everything and continue to develop the fund, the covenants and this initiative side by side. Isn't that what Mr. Fellowship must think? Don't we have to do everything we can to get child labour out of the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u37	168 million children is absolutely too much. But do we solve this by protecting 17 million Dutch consumers so that they do not get child labour products? Those millions of children mainly make business for the domestic market and only 5% for the foreign market. The fact that the Netherlands imports less has no effect in the factories. It would help much more if we did so at European level, for a market of 500 million instead of 17 million. That could make a difference. We could also take measures that actually go much further in the chain and solve the problems there. The VVD sees much more benefit in this than in this measure, which in our opinion is disproportionate. I'm shocked by my quick math: a one-billion-dollar implementation cost is a huge amount. If you can use a fraction of that in a different way, you can achieve much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u38	I do not see any more interruptions, so thank you very much for your contribution and give the floor to Mr Voordewind, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that Mr Geselschap is open to drawing this European. We will see what this can bring about in the next time for joint initiatives. I'd like to look forward to working together. If we could draw this bill more broadly than just the Netherlands, that would of course be fantastic. I would like to thank the author for his comprehensive reply. The fact that there were few interruptions means that he had prepared himself very well with his staff. I would also like to thank the Minister for her answers, which are very much in line with the legislative proposal. It is good that they can join together. The Minister mentioned the Modern Slavery Act in the UK as a good example of introducing due diligence. We've talked about that a lot in the Chamber. Part of the Chamber has said that we must also do here what the English have done, namely to legislate. I know that the Minister is holding another battle because she has already focused her efforts on the covenants. This bill does not wait for the agreements and says that you can do both in parallel. Then the Minister agrees. I therefore hope that we can continue with the covenants but in the next phase we can still work on a Dutch Modern Slavery Act. I have tabled two amendments, together with Mr Van Veldhoven. One amendment concerns the age specification. The author of the legislative proposal wants a uniform age limit of 13 years. D66 and Christian Union want to put that next to the current conventions. That is why we have tabled an amendment to introduce specifications of 13, 15 and 18 years old. That runs nicely in parallel with all the existing conventions that exist over those ages. We have also tabled an amendment on the publication of the register. I hope that both amendments will receive a positive response. Unfortunately, Mr Van Veldhoven could not be here. Otherwise, she would have tabled a motion to open the register earlier, as suggested by the author of the bill. That is why I am now tabling a joint motion to open the register earlier than in 2020. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Child Labour Care Duty Act introduces a register for corporate statements on due diligence, in order to prevent the creation of such goods or services by means of child labour;]] [[whereas the register will be opened in 2020, but many companies can and wish to declare that they fulfil their duty of care to combat child labour;]] [[calls on the Government to open the register on a voluntary basis as from 2018, in anticipation of its mandatory entry into force in 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3406-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Servaes will be tabling a motion to draw attention to forced labour in parallel with this bill, which we are not going to cross. This is one of the other criteria set by ILO standards. That request will not be addressed to the applicant, but to the cabinet. We will support this motion by Mr Servaes. I have another motion on living wages. The Minister has already said a few things about this. She says: I am now dealing with these agreements, we have to fit and measure and cannot impose them. However, I would like to encourage the Minister to exercise a little more compulsion and drive in relation to these agreements. It's an important principle. It is sometimes said that if we really make a living wage, we will get a lot of angels out of this forced labour and out of this unjust financing of labour. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a living wage is a fundamental human right necessary to meet the basic needs of workers and their families;]] [[Considering that the recent report Branded Childhood of the coalition Stop Child Labour and SOMO shows that low wages and excessive overtime are widespread in garment factories in Bangladesh and that this leads directly to school drop-out and child labour among children of garment workers;]] [[noting that these problems also occur in other countries where active clothing companies on the Dutch market have their clothing manufactured;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[a time-bound plan to make "living wage" a condition within a strengthened procurement policy of the government;]] [[make this also part of all IMVO agreements;]] [[encouraging local authorities to adopt such policies;]] [[inform the Chamber of the deployment and results;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3406-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u41	The observation in the motion on early school leaving and child labour among the children of garment workers also refers a bit to Mr Geselschap's contribution. I'll come to a conclusion. I sincerely hope that the Chamber will support Mr Van Laar's proposal. I'm also seeing a majority rise. In doing so, we really achieve a legal anchoring of the transparency of companies. My group is very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the initiator for this initiative proposal on child labour. I didn't attend the first term myself. That's what my colleague Agnes Mulder did for me. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. What is before us today is about two things. The first is the fair economy. Do we all have an eye for a fair economy? This is true in the Netherlands, in Europe and worldwide. I have not heard anyone who does not agree that we should strive for this, unless it has been said in the first instance. The second point, especially for the CDA, is a credible and reliable government. Let me explain. We have always said, the Minister in the lead, that we want to work on the world goals with the Imvo agreements. In my opinion, we are one of the few countries that have been able to bring different parties to the table, whether they are NGOs, trade unions, governments or companies. We have been able, with congratulations to the Minister, to let these parties come out of their shadows and get water to drink, to achieve certain goals. They signed it. I know that Mr Van Laar's ambitions and initiatives are sincere. However, if we say today that we are going to go through that with legislation and a number of other parties, whether trade unions or NGOs, says 'we should do so too', we are all sitting at that table one day and we are talking about legislation and monitoring the other day. The CDA clearly stated in the AO on the progress of the IMBO agreements in June 2016 that at some point enough is enough. I say that again today to all the parties involved, including companies. However, we have also said: give the people, the companies and the partners a chance to develop this. That's very important. There is now a law that will not enter into force until 2020. We've just started the imvo agreements. We've been going on for almost a year and a half. Let us evaluate it carefully in a few years' time. Let us see what the costs are, let us see what the facilitating policy should be. And let's get together with those partners to come up with legislation. We should also make this legislation together and not top-down from the government. I was supported by Mr Vos of the PvdA. That is also the colleague of Mr Servaes and Mr Van Laar. He says, "Of course you have to look carefully at the moment and the way you do it." There is very little light in that, except that we would like it right now. However, I also have the patience to wait one or two years. If we stick together, we'll get a lot further than if we cross the covenants now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u43	It may be an interesting quartet between Mr Vos, the petitioner, the minister and the undersigned, member of the PvdA People's Party, but I will spare you that. Mr. Amhaouch is getting into it. His judgment doesn't lie. We have just heard the Minister speak. It has an important role to play in the implementation of the covenants. The Minister says that it is two things that can be side by side. Firstly, it is about those who remain behind, not about the people of the covenant itself. Secondly, the companies in such a covenant are not really affected by the law, because they already comply with this duty of care. I assume that Mr Amhaouch also listened to these statements by the Minister in the first term, and I would like to hear his reflection on that in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u44	The fact that these cases can run in parallel is only partly true. We are dealing with this law today and it will not enter into force until 2020. So we are now discussing a law that will enter into force in 2020. Then let us use that time to learn from the covenants. At that time, we will be able to bring the lessons learned into the legislation. That's important. One doesn't rule out the other. What does it add to today's treatment of the law in this way, when we must give confidence to the covenants? I hear a number of people say that the covenants are non-binding and that the companies do not have to abide by them. It's all voluntary. If we are all going to radiate that here, we are not a reliable and credible government. Then I'm afraid it's a bomb under the covenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u45	We agree. Those covenants aren't noncommittal at all. It is fantastic that these initiatives come from the sectors themselves, but, as I say, they do not cover everything. On the basis of analysis, it has been decided to conclude agreements for a number of risk sectors. This implies that there are also sectors in our economy that are not covered by covenants. That's one thing. The second is that the companies that comply with such a covenant are actually already ready. They can make their statement on day one and say: we are part of the textile industry and we have committed ourselves to this task in order to prevent the clothes sold in our shops from being made with child labour. We all hope for the success of these agreements. That's not where the political disagreement is. That's the profit, I think. The question is, however, what do we do with the sectors outside the agreements and with those outside the agreements because they do not participate? It's possible. Also in the textile industry you can choose not to participate as a company. Then we must have a stick behind the door to ensure a level playing field. I would really like a substantive response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u46	Once again, we also said in June that we must first create a critical mass that believes in this. There are frontrunners. The textile industry deserves to be congratulated, because it has embraced these covenants. The banks have also taken steps. If they have not put all the priority on child labour, they do have a number of other priorities. Each sector is working on its own priorities. Again, we are all in favour of a fair economy, but let us also give the frontrunners the confidence that they will make that snowball grow ever larger. There will also be a moment for the CDA when we say 'enough is enough'. The companies listening in tonight know that there will be legislation at some point. That is the stick behind the door, but before that, let's let these covenants do their job, learn from it and then amend the law accordingly. That's our reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u47	If that is the substantive response, I can honestly hardly imagine that the CDA does not support the law. This is exactly the stick behind the door that we want ready for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u48	Later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yeah. The law does not enter into force until 2020, as you know, and so we have some time left. My last question. Mr Mulder spoke on behalf of the CDA in the previous term. We then discussed the involvement of the trade unions. PvdA and CDA are both parties that have very close ties with the unions. I understand that a discussion has now taken place between the CNV, the Christian trade union, and the CDA. Can Mr Amhaouch tell me what that conversation has resulted in? Maybe that conversation got him to change his mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u50	I have not yet reported the conversation in the open register, but Mr Servaes is right: I have spoken with the CNV, as was initially expected. I listened very carefully to this union. They also believe that we should ban child labour at some point. They might want to do that today. I did point out to the trade union that today we are sitting at the convening table with all the partners. They recognized that and it is therefore a dilemma for them that they are struggling with. We are taking their information with us to our deliberations, and I am presenting the outcome here today. Of course the NGOs may want to move faster, of course the trade unions may want to move faster, but it is about whether we are all moving forward together here. We say: learn from what you get from the frontrunners at the covenants. We have enough time to adapt the law to that and to say in 2020 or 2025 what year it will be, I don't mind saying: now we have a law and that's the stick behind the door for those who don't want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u51	One comment. Mr Amhaouch is now pretending to have been chosen at random, but that is not the case. That year is inspired by the Sustainable Development Goals, which states that it must be out of the world by 2025. In return, we have said that by 2020 at least we must have that standard. So I agree that you should take your time. I don't know which party it was anymore, but a party has asked whether we can start a bit earlier, because it is a very long run. We don't need that long to discuss the AMvB, do we? The timing is therefore based on international agreements, agreements made by this minister and her colleagues in New York last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr Servaes now pretends that some countries have already adopted legislation. Mr Servaes pretends that its effects are many times greater than the approach we are currently working on in the Netherlands. I would like to hear that the Minister still reflects on the question of which countries are even more ahead, and then with all parties at the same time in covenants. How many are there? What does she believe in more at this time? Is that cooperation in agreements or in paper legislation? It is not, of course, the case that we are doing nothing today. Nor should we underestimate the power, the strength of society. We believe in this and we therefore assume that the people who are already working with these covenants today are going to make it real. Perhaps there is more to it than we think, but I can already say to them: people, there will be a time for legislation, because enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr Amhaouch asks which countries are ahead like the Netherlands. We have just talked about England, which has now adopted such legislation. America has also drawn up a list of products and countries at risk for child labour. Those products don't come in there anymore. So there are certainly other countries that are ahead of us. Let me assume that the CDA also wants child labour to be excluded. We can then talk about how or what, but Mr Amhaoch also said that we probably need that stick behind the door to get all the sectors involved. Because the Minister has tried to get as many sectors as possible, we know that some sectors have said: "We are not participating. You'll have to look at it." I believe that one of those sectors was that of pensions. The banks are in on it, but the pensions aren't. If Mr Amhaouch agrees with us that child labour should really be out of the sectors, why not use that stick behind the door now? He can also say to the remaining sectors: mind you, you have three years left, and then there may have to be a covenant; then you can sign it when it comes to the register. Why doesn't he use that stick behind the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u54	There are always parties that participate and others that may not participate. If you have a big challenge, as in this example, child labour, there are always people trying to look the cat out of the tree. With renewable energy, we have had the same discussion. Are we gonna do it or not? Who are the forerunners? Who are the forerunners in the automotive industry who are starting with renewable energy? Who are the backup guys? At some point there will be an effect in which forerunners show that it can be done. Then there will be critical mass and even legislation. That's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u55	I agree with what Mr Servaes said: we are not talking about non-binding standards that we are perhaps going to implement. These are ILO standards agreed ten or twenty years ago. We already have an obligation to implement it, both public authorities and companies. Then Mr Amhaouch cannot say: we are waiting for the leaders to get rid of it and we are looking at a possible stick behind the door in 2025 if others do not come along? You'll be late, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u56	I think the crucial point here is how you stand in society. We believe in the power of society. We believe that with the covenants, with the minister at the forefront, we will achieve more than if we were to sign today a paper banning everything, and there would be a law banning child labour. You don't believe yourself, Mr Voordewind, that paper is going to make a difference, do you, Mr Voordewind? We have to do things, and we all do that together. We must not say from this Chamber, from The Hague, 'Dear people, there will be legislation', and that will solve everything. You don't believe that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u57	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u58	It even helps the companies. Some companies, especially some smaller companies, say to us themselves: please, pass legislation, because then we have a level playing field. That is how we know, they say, that the big companies cannot afford to stay behind, while we are doing our stinking best to comply with ILO standards. You are a co-legislator, Mr Amhaouch, so you do nothing but set the standards here, so that society will relate to certain legislation. We are doing this both for consumers, citizens and for businesses. Let me give you an example. I worked with the CDA to raise the alcohol age from 16 years to 18 years. The alcohol industry has told us for many years: do not sit in our seats, we know how to do it; let us do it now with covenants. We have waited ten years for this, and in the end we have said that there must be a law, a stick behind the door. And now we see great support for that age limit. I hope that Mr Amhaouch, perhaps not in this debate but soon enough, will come to the conclusion that some sectors really need to be included, otherwise they will continue to fight back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u59	I said what I said. As for the small companies that would like this: there are small companies that have five products with five ingredients, but there are also large companies that we would like to have with them, which have 1,000 products with 1,000 parts. You have to give them all a place. You can't put them all on the same page, can you? We have to move forward together. That is my last answer to Mr Voordewind's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr Amhouach stated on behalf of the CDA that it was important to do it together. He's talking to the unions. Last Friday we received a letter from both the SME Netherlands and VNO-NCW. In this report, SMEs-Netherlands and VNO-NCW say that they fear that the support for the IVO agreements will erode at the time when we come up with mandatory legislation. In their view, such legislation does indeed interfere with the process we are currently working on. I am curious whether the CDA has these same concerns and whether it shares the views of SMEs in the Netherlands and VNO-NCW in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u61	I think I have just made that clear: if you are going to do this right now, if you are going to talk about covenants at one table and legislation is being made in another place that goes through it, you are going to get to the point of trustworthy and credible government. You also get the support for the covenants. But I'm also saying to VNO-NCW and to SMEs-Netherlands I'm high on SMEs because it creates jobs for the Netherlands and there's going to be a time when: enough is enough. Then there will be legislation as a stick behind the door. Those companies and trade unions must not therefore think that they still have ten or twenty years to go. No, we've agreed targets and the Netherlands is part of them. I agree with Mr Voordewind: we are going to act on a standard basis. So these companies too will have to do it. But it has to go in the right order. As a CDA, we express our confidence in the covenants and the strength of society, but at some point enough is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u62	We begin to repeat, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u63	That's okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u64	You came to the end of your speech? Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf, who is speaking on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u65	Madam President. I would like to thank the initiator, Mr Van Laar, his collaborators and the Minister for the clear answers. As my fellow Members have already said, we were given crystal clear answers to the questions we had asked earlier. In my first term, I made it clear that the gun factor is definitely here with us. I don't need to repeat that. Anyone who wants to can read it back. I see from almost all my fellow Members that combating child labour is a priority. The big question is whether this bill helps in this, whether it works and whether there is sufficient legal certainty. As far as effectiveness is concerned, let's try it. However, I have tabled two amendments on legal certainty, because my group believes that the further legal framework for two matters is important. The first amendment concerns the discussion on the new contracts. The Minister said that it will start by 2020 and business will know what to do if we adopt the law now. It states that by 2020 there will be fewer existing contracts and that the problem will be solved in time. Nevertheless, there will also be a number of existing contracts. Especially as a small producer or buyer you will not always be able to break those existing contracts. Hence an amendment to limit this law to the new contracts. The second amendment aims to invest the responsibility, in particular, with those who are buying here in the Netherlands and with the supplier of those products, wherever they are. As far as we are concerned, it is not just a question of direct responsibility for child labour in the supplier company. That would be very skinny, because if you would only arrange that, you could easily put an empty e.g. in between and ready. That is why we have written in the explanatory statement that it is also about the indirect supply of goods. Child labour must not be involved in this either, and the customer will also have to verify it. I am very interested in the reaction of the initiator to these amendments. I know that this will be important in my group at the group meeting on Tuesday for the consideration of what we are going to do with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u66	Before I give Mr Servaes the floor on behalf of the Labour Party, I shall suspend the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Laar, the initiator of this law, very warmly for his clear first-term speech and, of course, the Minister for her consideration. In addition to all the substantive, technical and financial aspects, I was again the most impressed by Mr Van Laar's introduction, which started with the dull eyes of children who are at work and cannot do what they really have to do, namely go to school and play nicely. Fortunately, in the eyes of Mr Van Laar, I see a glimmer when he is working on this subject. I also saw it this afternoon when the counter at the petition that supports this initiative went through the magical border of 10,000 statements of support. It is good that there does not only seem to be broad political support here, but that this also exists in society. By the way, you can still express your support on pvda.nl, if I may mention it. I come to the heart of the debate. In the end, it was about whether you should do one thing and then leave the other. No, you have to do one and not leave the other. You have to do and-and do. I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the accompanying policy, which is essential. If you take children away from the factory, you have to make sure that they can go to school and that their parents bring enough bread on the shelf. I give a compliment to Minister Ploumen for the way in which she is shaping these agreements, but as far as I am concerned, that bottom has to go up and this stick is needed behind the door. I would like to ask the Minister once again about the statement made here by some colleagues and also by some employers. I am consciously saying'some', because other employers support this initiative 'that this law might undermine the basis of the agreements'. Does she recognize that? She talks regularly with the participants in the covenants, so let's ask her for the final judgment now. I'd like to hear her say that in second term. A number of issues need to be addressed in the General Measure of Governance. It seems very sensible to me that we should do this carefully and together, including with the input of entrepreneurs, perhaps especially small entrepreneurs. In fact, this discussion is very similar to the discussion we had on the UN Disability Convention, because ultimately the devil is in the detail. Is it reasonable to expect something from an entrepreneur when the effort is great, but we endorse the principle? That is the question before us now. Of course, we say yes to that. We very much like to see the effect in that AMvB with a heavy hanging procedure. I have heard the Minister's commitment to this. The battle for honest work and good work is, as the Beatles called it, a long and winding road. If this bill is adopted, we will take a very nice and important step, but of course we are not there yet. I would very much like to support two directions. Firstly, I would very much encourage us to look at what we can do at European level from the leading role that a number of countries are now taking on. It is good to hear the warm plea that the VVD has just made for EU legislation in this area. So with joint support from the coalition partners, there seems to be opportunities for the minister there. Secondly, we should not only look at child labour. It is logical that we started with that, because that is the most poignant example of things we do not want. However, we must move on. That is why I, along with Mr Voordewind, have already announced a motion to the House which might open the next chapter. The motion is about forced labour. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a recently adopted ILO protocol (on ILO Convention No. 29) and Objective 8.7 of the Sustainable Development Goals require the fight against forced labour, modern slavery, trafficking in human beings and child labour;]] [[Whereas 21 million people worldwide are victims of forced labour, exploitation and slave trade, including in the building and natural stone sector, the clothing and textile industries and the agricultural sector;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare legislation to combat forced labour and modern slavery, in line with the ILO Protocol and Objective 8.7 of the Sustainable Development Goals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34506-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u68	I am glad to hear that we should actually do the implementation of the standard of due diligence with everyone. But if you want to do that carefully and well, in my opinion, let that be established here in the Chamber, not at AMvB. After all, the possibilities for inclusiveness are many times greater. Is Mr Servaes prepared to do so? Or is he in a hurry, too? I don't think so, because he agreed with my grandmother that that's rarely a good idea. Why do we have to do it with AMvB? Isn't it better that we settle such an important point, which affects legal certainty, here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u69	Perhaps I did not explain clearly that I myself am in favour of dealing with this AMvB with a heavy veil here. This means that the Chamber is explicitly involved. I'm going to run it against the UN Disability Convention one more time. We lay down the principle in the law. That principle is in the Disability Convention that you have to take into account people with disabilities. In this case, the principle is that you take into account where your products come from and whether they are produced fairly. You're gonna put that in a law. In this case, however, the OECD standards have already largely filled in the way you do it. But to finen it even further, that AMvB is important. I don't just think it's important that we're involved, but I almost demand that we're involved. After all, we want to keep our finger on the wrist. We therefore agree; this must be discussed here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u70	But the rights of the Chamber are better guaranteed if we put it in that law ourselves. Then it is better guaranteed, no matter how extensive that veil may be, and no matter how intensive we have that discussion. The same applies to the supervisor. Why is Mr Servaes in such a hurry when it does not start until 2020? Why don't we take our time for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr Geselschap asks two questions. When asking how heavy something weighs, I don't think it matters if something is in a law or in an AMvB. The advantage of an AMvB is that it allows you to anticipate changes. For example, should the OECD standards develop over time, you can adapt the AMvB accordingly. The AMvB therefore offers a certain flexibility. If we want to change something again in the future, for example because it doesn't really fit in with the practice, it can be easier with an AMvB. With an AMvB, it's easier than if we have to re-examine that law all over again. So that just has certain advantages. I say again: we do this in other treaties, as long as the principle is enshrined in the law. Then time. Am I in a hurry? Yes, of course I'm in a hurry! Every day that children are still in a factory, I want something to happen about it and I think that politics should stand for it. This time is, of course, consciously so that companies can prepare for entry into force on 1 January 2020. Let me just say: you can therefore see this as a hand-off to the supporters of Mr Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u72	I see to Mr Geselschap that he considers this answer sufficient. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the spokesmen for their contribution to the second term. I'm just gonna walk the different insertions one by one. I think that's the easiest thing to do, but that might lead to a little overlap. But it's gonna be okay. The spokesperson of the VVD asked whether we can wait and see what has been started. He says that the Fund for Combating Child Labour will only start on Monday and we do not know how the agreements are going to work out. No, that's right, but we do know what those processes are aimed at. The fund is aimed at those leaders, who want to do more than this law or whatever covenant they require, namely to invest in system solutions. That fund is not going to fund the peloton to do what they have to do according to the OECD guidelines and certainly not help those who are left behind, because those who are left behind are not going to apply there. The fund is for the leading group and the covenants are for the peloton. In the agreements, sectors themselves determine what they find to be a reasonable speed to move towards the OECD guidelines. There's always a group left behind. We already know that. In the textile agreement, about a third now signs along. Hopefully that'll be more. But there will always be companies that say, "I'll stay out of that covenant; as long as I'm not screwed around, I'll just do my own thing." There are sectors that refuse to sign agreements and there are, of course, a lot of companies that are outside sectors, but they do involve products from those sectors. That is why we have made this law. Not just like that, not all of a sudden; that trustworthy government the CDA was talking about. That is precisely why we took the entry into force of 1 January 2020. That's how companies know what's coming. If you join a covenant that does enough, you don't have to do anything extra to comply with this law. But there are a lot of companies that do not, and they have to take this law into account. Government is forward-thinking and lawmaking is also forward-thinking. So we now need to make it clear to companies that they have to take into account in 2020 and 2025, just as we do in the case of zero-emission cars and electric cars. That is where you will lay down provisions in the future, so that the sectors can focus on them. The Council of State did indeed have comments on the effectiveness of this law, but at that time we had reworded the objective. The objective has now been reworded. As a result, the objective and what the law achieves have become the same. That is how this argument is addressed. In the letter of amendment, we have also amended the law in such a way that legal certainty is better guaranteed and that there is a direct link between what the law requires and what the law aims to do. In this way, the effectiveness is now better guaranteed as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u74	Do you agree that if you were to enforce the law for another year or two and take the learned, the experiences in the covenants, you could, as the Council of State says, make a much more effective law, because you have already made flying hours with the covenants? Wouldn't that be better? Then your law will be much better. It doesn't go in until 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u75	In this law we have not reinvented due diligence or anything like that. This due diligence has long been laid down, in the OECD guidelines, in the Ruggie Framework. That is what global consensus is about. They've been hired. This law doesn't change anything. We do not repeat what this due diligence is or what companies have to comply with. We only lay down in the law that companies must declare that they comply with it, so that they can also be held to it. About due diligence is global consensus between employers, employees, trade unions and governments. It's been worked on for years. These new directives have been in place since 2011. All companies have known that for five years. They choose to stick to it or not. We are just saying, with a view to the future, make sure that you stick to that global consensus on one part, on the child labour component, at least from 2020. That's all we're asking. That is a modest question, far in the future, for companies to anticipate. They've known it's coming for five years. They're gonna know for three more years it's getting closer. If you're not done by 2020, you've really dropped a sting as far as I'm concerned. Then you can be addressed to that. But then you get a concrete clue first and then a fine. So you get every chance to fix your mistakes. A complaint like that only comes when there is a case. I think we put this together carefully. Mr. Geselschap made a quick calculation. It says it's going to cost EUR 1 billion. I don't think so. The costs mentioned by the Minister are based on a statement of substance to be drawn up and sent in. However, as we know, any company that only imports products from child labour-free sectors and countries can simply send in one sentence. That's sending an e-mail. I don't know how much it costs you, but at least it doesn't cost me $98. The cost of this is much lower. The Minister also spoke of a threshold. We have yet to see how high that threshold will be. That's what we're gonna look into when we draft the AMvB. Many companies will not be affected by the law, because they are below the threshold in terms of turnover or number of employees. I'm guessing that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u76	Calculations are always difficult; I honestly admit that. The estimate ranged from €98 to, I believe, €768.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u77	€787.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u78	You do that amount once 1.5 million Dutch entrepreneurs. Then you come at an amount ranging from 150 million to 1.2 billion. I absolutely agree with Mr Van Laar that there are companies that may not have spent €98 on this, but there will also be cases where you are not ready with €1,000 in research costs, because you are dealing with a very complex situation. The CDA colleague just said the same thing. I think that Mr Van Laar is playing down these costs somewhat. Would it not be wise to take a good look at this cost aspect rather than do it out of the loose wrist in the second term? Good legislation also involves a cost-benefit analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u79	The costs relate to the creation and submission of the statement. That's the only thing this law demands extra. Other costs, such as the costs of conducting an investigation and making a plan of action, are not covered by this law, as this is already called for by the OECD guidelines. All companies are expected to comply. The additional costs that this law entails are very limited. The UK Modern Slavery Act, as the Minister outlined, seems to me to be very good comparative material. We have also made estimates ourselves and we come at a similar amount. Such an explanation doesn't require much extra capacity. That statement is required because it is stated in the law, but the costs involved are the only real additional costs. The costs incurred by the OECD Guidelines are always reasonably determined on the basis of a company's assets. You have to take into account, among other things, the size, complexity and possibilities of a company. Companies cannot and do not mitigate all the risks of child labour. If companies are dealing with complex production chains and do not have the influence to intervene from time to time, they can prioritize and make choices. But those choices have to be justified. That's how the covenants work. In addition, a company makes the choice to do one thing the same and the other a little later. But you have to figure out a path that you're working towards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u80	I hear Mr Van Laar say that it is good to look at and use the example of the UK. But when we do that when we talk about the €98, he says that costs are often much lower. Then suddenly it doesn't work. That confuses me a bit in the investigation of costs. The costs are a serious issue in any consideration, including on this important issue. I don't understand why we don't want to do this any better. It may indeed be easy to send an e-mail, but I can imagine that the accountant would like to check at the risk section of a company later to make sure it is true. Then there will be additional costs. I have not heard why Mr Van Laar does not want to have a serious cost analysis done. I therefore also ask the Minister this question. Is she willing to have such a cost analysis done? At least the Chamber will know what it decides. Money isn't the only thing that matters. The happiness and future of children are of course also very important. But this way we could make the balance better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u81	We've made that cost assessment. The government did. The Minister just told me. Mr Selschap, if you say that this assessment is not serious, it is on you. I think that assessment is serious. Maybe I should just ask another question: how much do you think it is worth to ensure that Dutch companies make efforts to free their products from child labour? I do not think you will answer that because you want to use this argument as a stick to strike with. The costs are just to be seen. All similar examples teach us that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u82	You're saying I just got the Minister's cost analysis. We were given the example of what it would cost in the UK. I think that's different than saying that I've been given a serious cost analysis and that I'm just gonna move it aside. I find that too easy to say. As you yourself say, I already know that the costs are modest. I think it is very good that you can say that at once. The big advantage of a cost analysis is that it allows you to see if it might be in certain sectors or companies. And perhaps by a minor amendment of a law, the cost-benefit analysis can get much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u83	This law is designed in such a way that the costs are minimal. The explanation is form-free. We haven't produced a huge questionnaire in which you all have to give answers. Businesses can do with one sentence: I declare that I am complying with the OECD directives on child labour. That's all. That's what companies can do. They can choose to send in a comprehensive statement, in which they account for how they do so and how that is built up. This will enable consumers and organisations wishing to monitor to obtain information. But the minimum requirement laid down by this law is merely to send in a one-line statement. It can't be any simpler. The Minister also wants to introduce a threshold by means of an AMvB. I think you're going to exclude a lot of companies, because there are a lot of companies with little turnover. This brings the administrative burden as close as possible to zero. Cheaper can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Van Laar continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr Geselschap asked about higher law, about the EU's internal market. That has indeed been a very important point of attention. As he knows when he knows the history of this bill, we started with the initiative paper Prohibiting child labour products. Mr Voordewind referred to this as well. The Americans simply have a list of products that are no longer allowed in the country. Why don't we? Because you can't. It must not be subject to European regulations. We cannot impose import bans, not on specific countries and not on specific sectors, because that would violate the global trade and free trade agreements. The U.S. is just another battle country, so to speak. That is not possible in Europe. If it were possible, it could only be done at European level. However, we can make exceptions in the area of public order, public morality or public morality. This is what seal fur legislation is based on. This is a matter of public morality: the use of seal products is rejected. Similarly, child labour products are rejected. That is why we can make a law to protect our own consumers from it. Our analysis, which has also been discussed with professors and others, is that this law could stand. Of course, you won't know until the procedure is in place. It also depends on how it's defended. However, in view of the Minister's first-term explanation, I think that the defence is now in order, if I may say so. The Christian Union has tabled two amendments. One amendment concerns the definition of child labour. The Christian Union refers to an existing law and an existing definition. This is indeed a lot more extensive than the definition I had in my draft version. The new definition seems just a very nice addition to the law. So thank you for that. That's gonna make this law better. The other amendment calls for a public register. In the first period, and indeed in the note on the report, I indicated that this seems to me to be an excellent suggestion, because it is precisely this openness that gives an opportunity to answer and to explain such a statement. Then you see not only that a company has explained something, but also what it has explained. This creates many opportunities for rankings, such as Rank a Brand, and indexes, which allow us to see how companies do it, how open they are or how transparent. So that's good. A motion was also tabled to make that register public as soon as possible. I told you, that's a good idea. A motion on living wages has also been tabled. As the author of this bill, it does not seem to me to comment on that motion because it does not refer to my bill. I have all kinds of opinions on it, but today Mr Servaes is the spokesman for the Labour Party. So I'd like to leave that to him. The CDA stressed the importance of a fair economy worldwide. That's where we'll find each other. We also find each other at the point of trustworthy government. Precisely for this reason, there is already the announcement that there will be legislation by 2020 at the earliest to ensure compliance with the OECD directives on child labour. Legislation must be made together. If Mr Amhaouch has seen and supports the list of organisations that have contributed to this, he knows that this is a widely supported process. It is not, as he said, just the unions and the NGOs that want to go faster, but also companies. Companies are asking for this law. As Mr Dijkgraaf said, the small entrepreneurs he speaks are asking for this law. A multinational like Nestlé is also asking for this law. It says: we have a plan against child labour, but our competitors do not, and we suffer from it. Social entrepreneurs such as Tony's Chocolonely have also supported this law. In my party, we call them the red entrepreneurs. They are enthusiastic about this law because they see that they are taking steps but this does not happen around them. That's what's bothering them. That level playing field is precisely in the interest of entrepreneurs. So we can't wait one or two years. No, we must now announce what we intend to do in 2020 so that they can take that into account. Now wait two years and then throw a law on the table, there he is, you have to stick to it now! A trustworthy government doesn't do that. Rule is forward-looking, as I said. At some point you could have legislation as a stick behind the door, says Mr Amhaouch. I would say: vote for this law; that is the stick behind the door. That law is on the table and can be introduced on 1 January 2020 if that seems reasonable to the government. We hope she will, but she can do it later, just as a stick behind the door. And if such a great effort is miraculously made that child labour is already out of the world by 2020, then of course this law does not need to be introduced. That's obvious, too. But on that point, too, I am not so positive that I think we should not do this now. The SGP has tabled two amendments, for which I need a little more text and content. In his amendment to item No. 17 Mr Dijkgraaf stated that the research should be limited to the direct suppliers of the company. The explanatory memorandum does say that a company can look further, but the law is changed so that it only carries out due diligence research on its direct suppliers. As I said in the first term, many companies will indeed not be able to look much further than those direct suppliers. If they have submitted a statement, they do not have to look any further either. But a multinational like Nestlé, who is also asking for this law, can oversee his entire chain. That's what we can ask from a company like this. This is what the OECD guidelines also require from companies: look at assets in the chain, so what you have capacity for, and trade for. It would therefore be a pity, and also contrary to the OECD directives, to change the law so that it does not happen. I think that we should have this discussion in the debate on the General Measure of Governance, in which the government will continue to work out what the proper care under this law is going to be. As far as I am concerned, this will have to be in line with the OECD guidelines, and they are taking a different approach to this amendment. I do think, however, that the concern that companies should continue to be able to do so must be addressed there. The amendment in part No. 18 actually raises more questions. The applicant asks companies to conduct the investigation only when concluding or renewing a contract with one of the suppliers. I understand the author when he says that we should avoid existing contacts. That's a good transitional arrangement. Contracts concluded before 1 January 2017 or for approval by the Upper Chamber, you must exclude from the law. However, according to the wording of this amendment, until the end of time there will only be an obligation to apply due diligence if you conclude a new contract or revise a contract. And that is not what the author wants, if I understand his explanatory statement correctly. When you conclude a contract in 2025 you do the due diligence, but also afterwards, when the contract runs. Because due diligence is an ongoing process. The amendment seems to suggest to the author that due diligence takes place only when a contract is concluded or renewed. So perhaps we can look for a different wording, because I think I understand the spirit of the amendment. We can also choose to park it in an AMvB. With an amended amendment it may also be possible in the law, so that there will be a proper transitional arrangement for current contracts, which have already been concluded before companies knew they had to do this due diligence, as this law requires them to do. I hope I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u86	Just the general principle why we want it in the law and not in the AMvB. One of the reasons is that we have the right of amendment in legal proceedings. You don't have that on an AMvB. You can try to ask the government to record things, but then we are more at the mercy of the government. It's big sometimes, but sometimes it's not. It's part of our job to lay down in the law what we want to record. I am maintaining my amendments. I understand what the author is saying about the amendment to item No. 18. I think we should take a look at the wording to get it neatly. The explanatory memorandum also states that the measure must be regularly reviewed during the duration of a new contract to see whether it is going well. I think we'll figure it out. The amendment in part No. 17, of course, does not preclude companies from continuing in line with OECD standards. Perhaps we should look at the wording there too, although I can see a more fundamental difference between the author of the amendment and the author of the initiative law. Perhaps before Tuesday we can see if we can still reach a compromise on the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u87	Thank you for that explanation. I do think that we are in fact in favour of Amendment No 2. 18 will come true. I had already said in the first time that there should be a transitional arrangement. There's got to be reason. That reasonableness must also be there when it comes to how far you look in the chain. The amendment is indeed contrary to the OECD guidelines. I've just tried to make a law that fits that perfectly. So there's a little more friction there, but we can definitely look at it. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u88	I see that Mr Dijkgraaf still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yes, I would like to come back because people will read back the report from this debate later. That is why it is important that some things that I myself look at differently do not remain undisputed. With the wording directly and indirectly in the explanatory statement, I believe that the OECD directives are fulfilled, but perhaps the wording in the legal text itself should be a little more precise. I suggest that we discuss this outside this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u90	After all, we have an army of advisers who are capable of this. I'm sure we'll figure it out. The Labour Party filed a motion. It is not addressed to me as a petitioner, so I will abstain from commenting. D66 did not speak in the second term, but tabled an amendment. I think it would be a good idea to think about that. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 14, which provides that this law may lapse if evaluation shows that it is superfluous. I think it would be great if the law was superfluous. I do not believe that the law will continue to exist in that case. I wholeheartedly support that amendment. I think I've commented on everything now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to answer the questions, then deal with the amendments and then the motions. I think that's the right order. The first question is from Mr Geselschap van de VVD. He's asking about the costs. The author has already said a number of things about it. We've just had a little debate on it. It is perhaps a good thing to say that the cabinet, in part to control the costs, is proposing to introduce a threshold. The petitioner mentioned that as well. As I said in the first term, we need to look carefully at what threshold that is going to be. For example, it could be 2 million sales, or excluding one-man businesses. There are several options. It is important that we choose a clear threshold. It is good to specify this in the AMvB. We can also find this in the letter of amendment with No. 21. In fact, I am not saying anything new, but I am referring to the question of the threshold to Mr Geselschap's concerns about costs. Then I will answer his question about EU law. The legislative proposal amounts to a restriction of free movement within the EU. The Council of State considers successful recourse to a justification possible, provided that there is effectiveness and proportionality. Opinions differ as to whether the European Commission will take action against this bill because of a possible infringement of the free movement of goods and services. The state's lawyers' assessment is that that's not a good chance. They estimate that the law will stand for the EU Court. I say to Mr Geselschap that he should also take a look at the Dutch initiative against imports of seal fur from 2007. Some also thought that it was contrary to EU and WTO rules, but in the end that initiative was embraced by the Commission. It even drew up a regulation along the same lines. The objection raised at the WTO was rejected. The import ban was justified on the basis of public morality. On similar grounds, this law could also be justified under EU and WTO rules. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA asked if there are other countries that have a voluntary approach. I'm not familiar with that. There are several countries that are increasingly working together with their businesses. I don't know if somewhere else the combination of business-NGO government exists in such a construction, but it could. You always have to take a bit of a hit, but the Netherlands pioneers with the covenant approach. I think Mr Amhaouch is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u92	I asked that question to avoid a misunderstanding. Some parties say that the Netherlands is not ahead because some countries have the legislation in place. My question was not about legislation, but about doing things together with all parties through covenants. Is the Netherlands the frontrunner in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u93	Of course, it's hard to compare. They are not necessarily apples and pears; the difference is perhaps even greater. There are countries that have legislation. We just called the UK Modern Slavery Act. That's a different path than covenants, you might say. You can't easily trade one for another. Both are there. We do indeed have a pioneering role to play in the process of agreements. Mr Servaes asked about the relationship between the covenants and this legislative initiative. Does one drive the other off the socks or in the wheels? Does this affect the support? A number of companies in a number of sectors are involved in voluntary agreements for which there is broad support. But there are also companies in the sectors of the covenants that are not involved. It is in the interests of the companies that are putting their best foot in the game that there should be a level playing field. In this way, you could indicate the relationship between the covenants and any initiative proposal in this area. It monitors a level playing field. I hear Mr Van Laar saying that he has reports from companies that support an initiative bill such as he is proposing. That is undoubtedly from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u94	I think so, too. However, I would like to ask the Minister to make it a little clearer, because it is quite a statement that VNO-NCW sent to us on 20 January, the Members of Parliament who are all about to decide whether we support this initiative proposal or not. It says literally that the basis for the agreement of the imvo would erode if we were to legislate. That is in fact also the main argument that the CDA spokesperson argued for the struggle he described and I can imagine if you accept this for true. Does the Minister have any indication that the support for the Ilva agreements is evading?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u95	The government has chosen the course of the covenant. There is now an initiative legislative proposal on child labour. There have been no individual companies in the cabinet, at least as far as I know, who have said: that means that we will be less committed to covenants. At least they didn't come forward to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u96	I have no further question to the Minister, but I do think it is important to mark this moment. In any case, the Minister says that she has no evidence to support this statement. VNO doesn't argue that either. I hope the CDA takes good note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u97	What Mr Servaes and the Minister say is a very important point. I think we should mark that very well. I hear the Minister say that she has not reported to individual companies on this point. The Minister, and I think on behalf of the Minister, also the Cabinet and the Government, has chosen the course of covenants. I can hardly imagine that the large organisations involved in the covenants, whether VNO-NCW, SME-Netherlands or any other organisation, have not shared their concerns with the Minister about the erode of the support for the covenants. That is what I would like to know from the Minister, apart from an individual company that has come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u98	No, I also received the letter from VNO-NCW to which Mr Servaes refers. But that wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u99	The minister mentioned the costs earlier. I asked Mr Van Laar if the cabinet would be prepared to carry out a more detailed cost analysis. The Minister raises that threshold, but the cost analysis remains relevant. And then there's another technical point. The minister says we'll settle that threshold in the AMvB. But as I read the law now, the AMvB is looking at what that research and that statement should look like and not at what entrepreneurs it applies to. I think that the law on this requires a small adjustment. For me, this is an illustration of the fact that we are trying to regulate it all too quickly and not taking the time to do it properly. I can see that in the legal context. It is good to defend, there are differences of opinion, but why do we not see that before we make a decision? And I don't have to wait years for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u100	I would like to comment on the costs. In the first period, I have already said that this is, of course, also one of the concerns that the cabinet wishes to raise in relation to the legislative initiative proposal. But the Cabinet also knows that this is pioneering. And so, in order to make sure that you can make an assessment of this, we have looked at a similar initiative, which includes a part that requires such an explanation. That's the Modern Slavery Act. Then we looked at what the known costs are now. What's the range? I gave it to him. We have also converted them neatly into euros. Apart from all kinds of other considerations, this is a cost estimate that is closest to a real-time experience, if I may say so. That makes it more relevant to me than a very theoretical exercise. So I was thinking that we could push for a more precise definition than was initially given by the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u101	I'm always in favour of making a quick initial assessment, because at least you'll know the order of magnitude. If you do that quick estimate times the number of companies, you'll come up with the highest amount above the billion and with the lowest amount at 150 million. The intention is to solve this somewhat with the threshold, but then it also depends on which threshold it is and how many holdings lose weight. So we can't actually hear the answer until we know that threshold. Then why not put that threshold into the law, especially since this cannot be regulated in the current structure of AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u102	For that last point, I referred to the letter of amendment. That seems sufficient to me. We do not specify the threshold now because, as I indicated in the first term, it is important to choose it carefully. You don't want too many companies. You don't want one man's businesses with you. You don't want only two companies left. Since different categories are used to identify the size of companies, it seems appropriate to look closely at them again. It's no answer other than in the first term, but I think it's relevant. You only make that choice once. Perhaps it is good to stress once again that the cabinet too seems to be the right procedure for the reasons which Mr Geselschap himself has put forward, namely that it is quite an important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u103	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u104	I shall continue with the amendments. I'll give you the number and the government's advice. If necessary, I will give you a brief explanation, but I will not do so by definition. I hope I have them in the right order in front of me. Our opinion on the amendment to item No. 10 of Mr Voordewind is positive. Transparency is important for promoting CSR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u105	That's number 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u106	Oh, excuse me, number 16. I must honestly say that the numbering has not become quite clear to me in all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u107	We'll help you with that. The numbers are 14, 16, 17, 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u108	Oh, I have very different numbers!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u109	We'll help you. This was number 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u110	I come to Mr Voordewind's second amendment on ILO Convention 138, which has number 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u111	That's number 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u112	The opinion on this is also positive. Oh, it turns out to be a different number. I'm really sorry I didn't get the numbers right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u113	Excuse me, number 15 has expired and that's number 19. This means that your verdict on number 19 is positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u114	Sure. I now come to an amendment by Mr Van Veldhoven, which has number 12 with me, but that turns out to be number 14. The opinion is also positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u115	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u116	I now come to the amendment to item No. 17, by Mr Dijkgraaf. Now our songs are even again. Very good: we have a parallel track. It is a sympathetic amendment, but chain responsibility goes beyond just the direct supplier. I think I understood from the small debate between the author of the legislative proposal and the author of the amendment which was understood by one another in the way that I could also support. The point is not to interpret the OECD directives differently than they are, but to run parallel to the OECD directives. My impression from that debate was that if the authors came out, I would be able to give a positive opinion. As the amendment now stands, as much as I regret it, I would not want to do so. In the case of the Dijkgraaf amendment to part No. 18 is actually the same issue. The debate between the authors of the amendment and the legislative proposal gave me the confidence that it will be implemented which is a reasonable proposal as far as the government is concerned. I think I should have faith in that. The objections exchanged were also the objections which the government could have raised. Then I come to the fourth letter of amendment, item No. 21. As mentioned above, the cabinet proposes to further fill in the scope of the law in an AMvB. I have just indicated this in response to questions from Mr Geselschap. I'm not gonna repeat that. Then I'll get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u117	The Minister's opinion is conditional, in the sense that the proposers of the initiative proposal and the amendment come out. That could lead to two things. If we amend the bill and a letter from Mr Van Laar comes to the Chamber, the Minister actually says that the Chamber can assume that the cabinet's opinion is "judgement chamber." It may also be that the Minister still needs to respond separately. I do not care, but it might be useful for the procedure if the Minister were to indicate what she prefers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u118	Again, I express the confidence. I think Mr Dijkgraaf's first suggestion would be the simplest and quickest. In the Voordewind/Van Veldhoven motion on piece No. 22 the government is invited to open the register voluntarily earlier. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I'm going to take the Voordewind/Servaes motion in part no. 23 on the living wage. Dissuade it. I think the authors had already felt that way, given everything I said in this debate about living wages and covenants. It is clear, however, that I remain unabated, I say in my own defence of the stakes on the subject. The motion Servaes/Voordewind in part No. 24 on forced labour is a sympathetic motion. I would like to ask the authors the following. It's a very recently adopted protocol. We have the Modern Slavery Act in the UK. Could I do some more research on this subject? Could I bring it in at EU level? I think it's a little premature to say I embrace it. In view of the nature of the proposal, I do not wish to discourage the motion. It's really a little unknown territory, so can the proposers agree to hold the motion or change the text to "closer investigation"? I leave that to them, of course, but I think that could be a good way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u119	I realize that I am the first petitioner to stand under the motion. I look at my colleague with a slanted eye and hope for approval. I myself read the word "prepared" in such a way that you do it properly, that you are indeed first investigating how it works and how it works in other EU countries. I would like to keep in mind the intention of reaching legislation in the end, but I fully understand the Minister that you are doing this step-by-step and that good research into what it means precedes it. That is in fact what happened with today's law: first an initiative paper in which the field is explored and then the law. Perhaps with this addition and interpretation I see Mr Voordewind nodding yes can the Minister embrace the motion. I certainly hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u120	The core of the motion is to prepare legislation. That route is the only route the proposers see in front of them. Could they not install a small backup valve so that we do research and then determine what we can do, where legislation is possible? Then I could give the motion judgment chamber. Then, of course, I'm going to do all that research and bring it into the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u121	I'm assuming the Minister will. I would like to look at the text together with my co-author and see how we can express it in the spirit of this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u122	That's nice. Do I have to say once again that the cabinet supports the proposal to refer the AMvB to the House of Representatives by means of a heavy procedure? I don't believe it. It's obvious. I'm telling you to give Mr. Fellowship a little bit more comfort. Those were my points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you very much, Minister, and thank you very much to my fellow Members for this fine debate and to my colleague for the submission of this bill. We will be voting on the law, the amendments and the motions next Tuesday.
