ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery, the Prime Minister and his cabinet. We shall begin today with the continuation of the debate on the declaration of government. Before I give the Prime Minister the floor for his first term, I would like to point out to all the group chairmen that I will be less cooperative with the interruptions today. I'm not going to tie the interruptions to a maximum, but they have to be really long... uh, "long"...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	They must be really short, many times shorter than yesterday. Interrupting does not involve an introduction or consideration of society. You are simply asking a specific question and I hope that it will be answered in concrete terms. The President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say a few words on the question of dual nationalities, because one of the group chairmen has announced motions on this point. But before I do that, allow me to make a few introductory remarks very briefly. I will be brief because yesterday I was able to make the statement of government here and thus outline the outlines of the policies of the coming years. First of all, thank you to all the chairmen of the thirteen political groups here in the House of Representatives for all the questions and comments that have been put. Let me start by saying something about how we want to achieve the content of the coalition agreement in practice. The coalition agreement contains a lot of concrete objectives and has a lot of effect on parts, but, as I said yesterday and it also resonated in the debate, we do not want to do so in isolation. We want to work together with all the relevant parties here, but certainly also in society. Even after seven months of formation, we still want that. This is necessary because, as a cabinet and a coalition, we not only want to have our own support for what we are doing, but it is always a good thing if we succeed, but that is more of a political reason. However, it is also in the social interest that we should shape a number of major transitions in this society over the next few years, for example in the area of pensions, in the area of the labour market, but certainly also in the area of climate. Those great transitions cannot be shaped without social support here but, again, also wider in society. This means that we are working intensively with all the relevant actors. There was a specific question from Alexander Pechtold of D66: how does it go with the different rulers? The governments have the advantage that, given the relatively long formation, we are now at the top of the budget. That's the advantage of that long formation. It wasn't planned, but it's gonna come out in a minute. That means that the rulers, all of whom you see sitting here with thick files, are working in their parts of the coalition agreement to identify for themselves what the two, three, four main priorities are for the coming year and for the coming years. That's how I understood Alexander Pechtold. As far as I am concerned, these priorities will all become very visible in the budget debates, so that it is also possible for the Chamber to debate them. Mr President, that is an introductory remark. It is not just our ambition to have that coalition agreement now. By the way, I saw some of them yesterday carrying a beautiful, bound version, which I have not yet got. I'm stuck with an old book, my old version, but General Affairs promised me that if they really exist, I'll get one too. I would like to focus today on the practical side of the matter. But before I do that, first something about the announced motion for a resolution by Mr Wilders on multiple nationality, chairman. What I appreciated was that Geert Wilders kept that general yesterday. He has not made a personal attack on rulers or their personal loyalty. He wanted to make a broader point, but nevertheless I strongly disagree with him. I thought it would be a good idea to mark that at the beginning of the debate. In addition to myself, this cabinet consists of 23 other members, each of whom for themselves and together through their proven commitment, expertise and experience is more than suitable for and calculated on their task. We have spoken for a long time, even with the information already, with the party leaders of the four supporting parties and looked together at the profile we are looking for, where one common point is that a limited ego in politics is a recommendation, because it is not a profession where you go through life completely collisionless all day and it is nice if you don't cry in the corner every time something goes wrong. That was, for example, one of those criteria that we sought when we proposed to rulers, and it was good that I explained this now with the risk that indeed, what Asscher said yesterday, a few people are trying to get away from the Trêveszaal through that crack. But then we will have to make another appointment there. But I don't think that's gonna happen. Nevertheless, for his reasons, Mr Wilders said yesterday that a multiple nationality in public office holders may or may not in certain cases or circumstances lead to a appearance of disloyality and should therefore lead to the resignation of those officials. Well, whatever it may be, Chairman, Mr Wilders's approach does not recognise that the mere fact of multiple nationality among Dutch public servants cannot be a basis for questioning their reliability after an appointment procedure, which addresses all relevant aspects of their functioning. Article 3 of the Constitution states that all Dutch citizens can be named on an equal footing in public service. Any distinction between Dutch people with or without a multiple nationality when a member of the cabinet is appointed is simply not allowed under the Constitution either. I notice that Mr Baudet is now stealing Mr Wilders' limelights, but that's how things go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	I actually want to know if you were done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	No, I'm not done. Perhaps a few words about this, because yesterday Mr Baudet said: yes, but it may still be the case that such a cabinet member of multiple nationality is also subject to the jurisdiction of another nation. I can just imagine that he wanted to repeat that point here. My answer would have been, if he had asked that question again here, that the Constitution and legislation provide the guarantees of designation on an equal footing for all Dutch citizens in public service. So in that sense, that is not a relevant fact. It is also, in fact, irrelevant otherwise, because the legal effects of another nationality are limited in such a way that they do not in any way hinder the free and proper functioning of members of the Cabinet. This has always been shown in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	What I hear here is a look back at the past: it has proved to be so in practice. What matters is that these people are now starting their work and, although in principle not foreseen, it is quite possible that in the coming years, in which they enter their reign, a conflict of these jurisdictions will occur. We don't know that. Mr Rutte does not know that, nobody knows that, because we cannot look into the future. And for that reason, for the simple reason that conflicting jurisdictions can occur, it is problematic to have a dual nationality. I would very much like Mr Rutte to respond to that, so to the impossibility of providing for the way in which a conflict of jurisdiction could occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	That's weird. Because, as Mr Baudet puts it, that would also apply to members of the cabinet who, of course, did not all crawl out yesterday, but already had a broad social career. It may always be that from that career, from previous positions, pressure could be exerted on a ruler to take on certain positions and positions, given that earlier position or in view of previous societal interests. It would be very strange if that would be a reason not to name that person. As a formatter, you have to make sure that there is no evidence whatsoever of such a form of improper pressure, whether it comes from a nationality or from previous positions in society. I did, because that's one of the tasks I had as a formatter. But the single fact of a double nationality plays gar keine Rolle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	However, there is a fundamental difference between pressure in the moral sense, pressure in the financial sense, pressure in the social sense and the jurisdiction of another country. Having a nationality means that you are subject to another country's legal system. So that means that that country doesn't matter which country it is. It doesn't matter which country it is. It can exercise jurisdiction over a Dutch ruler. That's the problem. I'd like the Prime Minister to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u9	It is therefore important to note that the relevant side is limited in such a way that a dual nationality is not a reason not to appoint a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u10	You don't know that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u11	You know that in two ways, I say to Mr Baudet. First of all, because of course we have experience with this in all kinds of places. Secondly, because we also know what the actual legal implications of a dual nationality are. They're very limited. Thirdly, because all directors who accept an appointment, either from a dual nationality, either from a previous position or from any social interest, do so without burden or back-spoke, without feeling forced to take certain positions from other considerations than the consideration of being a member of the cabinet and taking decisions there. Those are the three safeguards that apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u12	Take Turkish nationality, for example. According to Turkish law, insulting or in any way hurting or undermining the Turkish nation is punishable by the pride of the Turkish nation. That crime also applies outside Turkish borders. The Prime Minister says that these are very limited situations, but that is not true at all. These are very comprehensive situations. You can interpret almost any policy as an undermining of the pride of the Turkish nation. Now, in this case, it is not a person in office with a Turkish nationality, but that is why it is such a fine discussion of principle. Shouldn't we draw a line of principle? If you are a member of parliament, you can imagine, but no government positions for people of dual nationality. Wouldn't that be a much more purer state line for the Cabinet and for the Dutch State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u13	This is a very curious distinction. Now I hear Mr Baudet say: there is a difference between MP and cabinet. That is true in itself, but parliamentary membership is always higher than membership of the cabinet. You're our...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u14	Last point, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u15	I fully agree with that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u16	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u17	But a ruler makes decisions that relate to Dutch action, to Dutch relations with foreign countries and so on. Room's checking it out. I understand that there is a hierarchical distinction, but one can of course say very well that, as a ruler, you will find yourself in a potentially conflicting situation more quickly. As a Member of Parliament, you can say: I vote. As a ruler, you make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u18	Let's say you're a member of parliament and ask for the investigation of MH17 to be repeated. This is a purely imaginary case. You say: Russia has been treated very unfairly in the earlier investigation. Suppose you do that as a Member of Parliament. This is of course purely theoretical, and it turns out that before you became a Member of Parliament, there were moments in your life that you thought it was important to emphasize the Russian side in the MH17 investigation as well. All this can be done, of course, but then I can fight him on that in a public debate, if anyone does so. The fact that someone had previous views on Russia in relation to the MH17 investigation is not in itself a reason not to take such a position. It's okay. I would find it strange, I also find it harmful and I also think it's a blow in the face of the next of kin, but it could be. Then you have to fight that here with arguments. That must therefore be public, and this must take place in the open of the cameras and in the public debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u19	Then I'll go to Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u20	To begin with, of course, we are talking about both cabinet members and MPs. I think, in principle, regardless of the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the argument that I also used yesterday was that in the Dutch Lower House and in the Dutch cabinet only Dutch people should be present. It can't be any simpler. It should not include people who also have a Moroccan, Turkish, Swedish, Canadian or any nationality. You only have the Dutch interest to serve and you only have the Dutch nationality. So I'm filing that motion of censure, anyway. I just have one question for you: are there any other rulers in your cabinet, other than Mrs Ollongren, who also have dual nationality? I would be very sorry if I forgot one in my motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u21	Yes, you must also file your motion of censure against Barbara Visser, who has Croatian nationality. They have both reported this to me spontaneously, at least Mrs Visser has informed me of Croatian nationality and Mrs Ollongren of Swedish nationality. So you need to focus the motion very specifically on those two people. Since this is not an objection to appointment, it is not a question I ask in the conversation as a reformer with candidate executives. So whether there are any others with a dual nationality, I don't know and I don't want to know. That is not relevant to the formation process either. However, I would like to make one further comment, since Mr Wilders again used the term 'principal'. This is a matter of such principle for him that a motion of censure must follow. That's bullshit. What an incredibly weak bite of Geert Wilders! In 2010, when he himself exposed Mr Buma here yesterday; I found Mr Wilders there really was a gunmen's toleration of another coalition, he asked Mrs Veldhuijzen van Zanten only: would you be so kind as to lay down Swedish nationality? And when that didn't happen: oh, you don't want that, okay; fine, I won't come up with a motion, because I don't want to harm the cabinet. Now, seven years later, Geert Wilders comes forward with a motion of censure. What a weak bite. What a weak bite for a party that says to sail a straight course. No, you're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u22	What a strong bite, for the times of questions to rulers are indeed over. Now we're gonna get rid of every ruler who's gonna be there, everyone who's gonna be there. They're all getting a motion of censure. Once again, it is an unprecedented shame that the Prime Minister is simply here defending that someone in his cabinet can also have the Turkish, including Moroccan, Swedish or Croatian nationality. We are here in the Netherlands. You only have one nationality here. And with a joke about what happened in 2010 or 2012, you can't leave. We are the Dutch Parliament. You're the Dutch government. That means you have one passport, and that's only the Dutch passport. And the rest of you, get out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Wilders, you're going down in the polls, you're going down in sight. Your performance yesterday was very ineffective. Your answer now is extremely weak. If you table a motion of censure, you file it against yourself. There's one finger pointing at the cabinet, three fingers pointing at Geert Wilders. Then there is Mr Grapperhaus, because I understand that there is a motion of censure there too. May I point out that every member of the cabinet has every right to have private views in previous positions? I told you, we didn't crawl out of eggs yesterday. Everyone already has broad, social experience and has often expressed their views in the social debate. And Mr Grapperhaus has done this very extensively, in booklets, in columns, and we can all benefit from that. However, when someone joins a coalition, the question is, of course, whether the person can sign that coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition's agreement. That goes for Ferdinand Grapperhaus. That is what he has assured me, and with that, as far as I am concerned, that matter has been fully resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u24	Speaking of limp bite, who's gonna descend and who's gonna talk big bullshit? Mr Grapperhaus does not belong in this cabinet, because he has said not only that jihadists can come back from Syria or Iraq to the Netherlands, but also that you must enter into the debate with them and give them mercy after punishment. Finally, a journalist asked: Mr Grapperhaus, do you still think so? If he had said at the time that he had changed his mind and now he is pursuing cabinet policy, it might have been a weak bite, but it would have been a different matter. But what did Mr. Grapperhaus say? He said: yes, I still support my statements. It is unbelievable that in a country where the threat, the threat of terror, the Islamic threat has never been as great as it is today, we have a Minister of Justice who has said that he still thinks that we should send terrorists back to the Netherlands, talk to them and give them their mercy. That minister is a danger to the Netherlands. I said yesterday: such a minister is like making Mr Weinstein Minister for Women's Affairs. That's unacceptable. We shouldn't have that in this country. Perhaps even more than Mrs Ollongren, Mr Grapperhaus should take his lead. We need a counter-terrorist, not someone who actually thinks that we should give mercy and debate with terrorists. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u25	We have a situation here in the Netherlands in which we ask people to join the cabinet of which we have the conviction that they are able to implement the government agreement properly. These are people who, in most cases, have a broad social experience or are still very young, but who have created enormous expectations, enabling them to perform this function. That's how it works. If we only want people here who have never expressed themselves socially and in no way participated in a social discussion, if we all have people here who have acted since birth knowing that every social expression is exactly what in 50 years or in his case I ask him for a moment how old he is; next week 58 years later, 58 years later, he will be in the coalition agreement because he will otherwise encounter Mr. Wilders, who is so consistent that he will not change his position even in 7 years, let alone in 58 years... What a lame story! Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr. Rutte's wrong again. Firstly, this is not about the Minister of Agriculture, but about the political head of the fight against terrorism, the Minister of Justice and Security. Secondly, it's not 58 years ago, it's 2 years ago. In a column on his own website, not the Minister of Agriculture but the Minister of Justice said 2 years ago: you have to send terrorists back to the Netherlands, you have to talk to them, you have to give them mercy. Those are lyrics that GroenLinks and D66 haven't even released yet. And now he's in Vak-K, responsible for the fight against terror in the Netherlands. We're in grave danger. It wasn't 58 years ago, Mr. Rutte. It's been two years. And the man in charge of the terror fighters wants to talk to terrorists, at least he still does. This is a great disaster for the Netherlands. Take this seriously. It's been two years and the Justice Minister says he still thinks they should come back. Will you be serious about that? That can't be a minister, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u27	Ferdinand Grapperhaus supports from a to z what has been decided here in the Chamber this year, the bill that was adopted at that time, to ensure that people can be taken away from the Netherlands. He fully endorsed the three enlargements contained in the current government agreement on combating terrorism. He therefore endorses from a to z the three major tightening-up of the policy as set out in the coalition agreement. He's gonna do it. Once again, what Mr Wilders wants is for people to come here without a past, people who have done nothing socially, people who are not allowed to express a social view in any way. That doesn't make any sense, does it? That's when it gets weak. I insist that Mr Grapperhaus is very capable of implementing this policy. I can tell you, he's a tough guy who's not gonna be messed with. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u28	The Prime Minister says that Mr Grapperhaus supports the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u29	From a to z.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u30	It may be, but he doesn't find it. The journalist has asked: do you still believe that terrorists should be allowed to come back, that we should debate them and that we should give them mercy? On that question, he said yes. So we have a Minister of Justice who does something other than what he finds. Do you know what the Netherlands needs in a time with the highest threat of terror ever? The Netherlands needs a counter-terrorist minister, a minister of justice who, to his fibers and to every brain cell, thinks that you should not consult with terrorists, that you should arrest them and secure them, and preferably that you should not let them come back to the country. He doesn't think so. He'll do it, but he doesn't think so. And that puts us in great danger in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u31	I repeat: Ferdinand Grapperhaus carries out from a to z motivated by what has been decided here, what is in the coalition agreement and what remains to be decided. He doesn't just support it, no, he's gonna run it from a to z. And yes, fortunately, there are people here who have had opinions before entering the cabinet, who have also expressed them and participated in a social discussion. We can all be pleased that there are people in this country who participate in the social debate, not only here in the Chamber but also through columns, in the scientific world and so on. If all these people are then infected because they have ever said something that is not exactly in line with the policy of the new cabinet, you make it impossible for people to express themselves socially. I would be very opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u32	But the point is he doesn't find it! And the point is that "never" was two years ago! So we have a Justice Minister who found two years ago who still thinks you should bring terrorists back. It wasn't 50 years ago and a Minister of Agriculture. It's been two years and the boss of the fight against terror, and he doesn't find it. That puts us in great danger. By allowing this man into your cabinet, not only is the security of the Netherlands at stake, but your cabinet has already failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u33	I refer to the previous answer, because this is going to be a bit of a repetition of moves. I come to the first substantive issue: the tax environment and, more broadly, taxation. That is the first subject. After that, I come to purchasing power and then to the labour market. That's how I walk past all the subjects. I'll always tell you what the next topics are. But now we have the tax climate. We must also realise that yesterday it was said that the multinationals in the Netherlands, which are often talked about as derogatory as big-time earners and so on, account for 40% of the jobs in business. They account for two thirds of Dutch business turnover and 80% of international trade. I would point out to the Chamber that the Netherlands is a very open, connected economy. After Hong Kong and Singapore, we are the most open economy in the world. Millions and millions of jobs here depend on that fact. We will be discussing Europe shortly, but that is why it is so crucial that we are members of the internal market. That is what we need to talk about: trade, international trade, jobs here in the Netherlands. Then we see great changes. Of course we see the Brexit. We can also see that far-reaching decisions have been taken on corporation tax and dividend tax in neighbouring countries in recent years. This brings with it direct risks to employment in the Netherlands in these large companies and to the opportunity to bring this type of company to the Netherlands. Those who said yesterday, "Well, don't do that, the Vpb cut, don't do that, the dividend tax, spend the money on other things," take a risk. I think it is the task of a coalition that is entering at a time when the Netherlands is coming out of a crisis and where there is economic recovery again, to wonder what is needed to ensure that the Netherlands remains a country with a good locational climate. I would like to add one last point. Not only are these companies responsible for a huge proportion of our employment in the free sector. They are also indirectly responsible for a large number of jobs in supplying small and medium-sized enterprises, throughout the sector that surrounds these larger headquarters and companies. These are essential for our economy. I am only going to use the word'very normal people' once again in very normal jobs both at those companies and at the supplying smaller companies. You also take a big risk if you do not realize that the world is changing, that there is something going on in the world and that you have to respond to it. That is why these four parties decided at the table. It wasn't in the election programs. Something about corporation tax was mentioned in a number of election programmes, but there was nothing about dividend tax. We had a discussion about this with each other, and we found on the basis of that good, substantive discussion that, if you look at the whole thing, this is necessary to minimise the risks and to maximise the chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u34	If the Netherlands had a lousy locational climate, perhaps I could have thought along with this Prime Minister. But we're already a tax haven. We already have a good locational climate. This is demonstrated by the fact that 80 of the 100 largest American companies are already in the Netherlands. We already have a much lower tax on profits than the countries around us. We already have a lower dividend tax than the neighbouring countries. The cabinet is now going to present extra gifts to try to get English companies to the Netherlands, while we have everything in terms of location and infrastructure, and are going to create a tax war. Because now taxes go even further down and we are the only ones who abolish the dividend tax. As a result, other countries will follow. If others are going to follow, we will have to do it again afterwards, otherwise, according to this Prime Minister, we will be praising ourselves out of the market again. So all the tax rates for multinationals will only go down in Europe in the near future. You're starting a tax war in Europe. This is at the expense of the welfare state, society, inhabitants, salaries, care and education. Knock it off; don't do it! There's no need. It is spending money on the wrong sector, namely a sector that is already very good in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u35	First of all, it's not true that this is a race to the bottom. I agree with Mr Roemer: to avoid that one. But it simply doesn't add up, because the facts show that income from corporation tax has increased significantly in recent years. That's one. Secondly, it is not the case that we do this and do not in any way increase the burden. If you look at the whole business, you see that the burden increases by about 100 million for business as a whole. The reduction in corporate tax is accompanied by a whole package of other taxes, which brings in almost all the reduction in corporate tax with other taxes, for example in the context of greening. That is a second point. My third comment is that we have to tell the whole story. Apart from doing this, we are going to make the Netherlands more unattractive for mailboxes. For U2, just plain and simple. There we are going to introduce a withholding tax on dividends, interest rates and royalties. As a result, it is really a balanced package. This makes it less attractive for that type of company, the letterbox, for example, to settle here. So we have to tell the whole story when we talk about this. For this coalition, it is about maintaining employment and maximizing opportunities. Those odds are there now. I agree with Mr Roemer that we should not get a race to the bottom. We're not gonna do that. The figures also show that this is not happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u36	Years ago, the profit tax on multinationals was 35%. It has already been reduced to 25% and now it has to go even further down to 21%. So it's already a race to the bottom. If we do this to get British companies this way, because that is what other countries are going to do. If we then abolish the dividend tax, other countries will do the same. When I think along with you, this obliges the Netherlands to lower things every time. So it's starting a tax war. That's what this cabinet's gonna do. Mr Rutte's remarks are simply not correct. Indeed, there has been an increase in the tax on profits in the Treasury because companies have made much more profits in crisis times, but the contribution to our taxes has fallen from 9% to 7%. So in the total pot tax revenue of the Netherlands, the share of business has decreased in recent years. So it's also a race down for that reason. Finally. We kept asking who made this joke yesterday. It was supposed to come from VNO-NCW. Maybe they have a double agenda, but this is not in the letter they sent to the parties. It says: "Try to keep pace with the tax on profits and dividends." Well, keeping the same pace with the countries around us, where it is even higher, means that abolition is not at all the issue. So cut the bullshit from the race to the bottom. Stop this tax war and make sure that the money ends up where it belongs, namely in society. There's plenty of room. We already have the best locational climate, so we don't need this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u37	What Mr Roemer is neglecting is the fact that the Netherlands, as a very open and small economy with large competitors like France, the United Kingdom and Germany, is in a different position. We will always have to be below the rates of those large neighbouring countries when it comes to corporate taxation. France has announced a reduction in corporation tax to 25%. President Macron announced that. So far, he has carried out his policy quite successfully. Look at the labour market. Everything he wanted was implemented in two, three months while we were still forming. In other neighbouring countries, too, it is the ambition to reduce corporate tax. If we in the Netherlands do not intervene in the Vpb, the corporation tax, then we run the big risk of companies leaving here and going to countries like that. They have a number of inherent advantages because they are so large. It is precisely because they are so large that they can facilitate companies extra. This has to do, for example, with the capital or large research centres in those countries, making it attractive for these companies to settle there for reasons other than tax reasons. So that's an important consideration to do this. The second point is that the 3.1 billion comes largely from broadening. That's what I said before. The reduction in the base from 35% to 25% is also almost entirely financed by broadening the base on which corporation tax is levied. That's what we did with the first cabinet I was allowed to run. We then reduced the rates, but at the same time widened the base. As a result, the proceeds came almost entirely from the business community itself. Why do we do that? We do this because the tariff, the visible rate, is an important argument as a factor of location. Really, this is not left or right, not socialist or liberal. This is about jobs, about jobs in the Netherlands. I have already said that 40% of the jobs in Dutch industry are directly involved, apart from all the suppliers. We can't afford any risks here. The world is changing. The Netherlands must be ready for this. That is the debate we have had in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u38	So the Prime Minister simply acknowledges here that there is a tax war. He starts with: France announces something, so we have to go down immediately. Because he's counting on other countries to do the same. So he's actually starting the tax war right away. Because if France stands at 25%, we are still at the same level. Business brings an ever smaller bite into our taxes. It is only 7%, whereas it has been 9% and 11%. If we want to keep our society as it is, this means that tax revenue must be paid by people, because business is doing less and less and less thanks to the gifts of this cabinet. This means that there must be more cuts in education and care in order to achieve the same or we must ask more ordinary people. Stop it, because the end is not in sight if we continue with this. Lower corporation tax and abolish the dividend tax: don't do it, invest more in society, because that's what we need. Our locational climate is extremely excellent and remains extremely excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u39	This really isn't right. It is true that there are shifts between the type of load. Mr Roemer is right about that. But if you look at the overall burden on business in recent years, you can see that, as with the citizen, it has risen significantly as a result of the crisis. What you're seeing at the moment, as well as in recent years, and that's what this cabinet is putting through, is the shift of revenue sources. Much more money will be collected from environmental taxes in the context of greening the tax system, not only on the part of people, workers but also on the part of companies. But the total contribution of business in the Netherlands to the total cake collected from taxes has increased rather than decreased. You can't take out one tax title and say it's down. I'm going back one more time. I don't want to make this political, because this isn't. How many voters are here? Zero, when it comes to the big companies. That's about a few people. So could that be a motive? No, it's not. There is no interest, such as a client interest or an electoral interest. It's a social interest. It is of social importance that we take care in the Netherlands of the large companies that are based here and of the companies that want to settle in the Netherlands. We must be concerned with this type of headquarters with the related further industry behind it and the other activities and the significance it has for Rotterdam and Schiphol, our location factor. It is also about all the jobs of very normal Dutch people who earn one or two modes at those companies or in subcontracting. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u40	One final comment on this point, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u41	Finally, Madam President. Mr Rutte would be right if we were far above the countries around us in all these taxes. You would have priced yourself out of the market. Actually, that's not true at all, because we're way below it. What really benefits business, what really benefits all these 4 million people, and what benefits these big companies, is investing in infrastructure and education. Now let's not give billions as presents wrongly. Let's not do that. Let us agree here that we are going to invest more in better education, in professionals, in our youth and in infrastructure, so that we help businesses and improve the business environment even further. Because we really don't need gifts for shareholders and Wall Street here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u42	I agree with the second half of Mr Roemer's speech, of course, that we should invest in education and infrastructure. That's what the Cabinet's gonna do. There is also a lot of money going to education, and rightly so. Mr Roemer is absolutely right: this is important for large companies. When I consult with large companies that are considering coming to the Netherlands and balancing countries, I hear that these are important factors. But I am sorry to say that the flat assessment of the tax burden is ultimately also relevant in relation to the size of the overall economy and its facilities. Then we cannot be satisfied with rates equal to those of the surrounding countries. We're gonna have to be under there. If we don't do that, we'll be praising the Netherlands out of the market. Being a smaller country is in itself a competitive disadvantage compared to larger countries. So you're gonna have to be under it. That's why we have to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u43	The debate had two red threads yesterday. One was double nationality. This has been discussed right at the beginning. The other is the question of whether this cabinet really intends to take action in relation to the cracks in the door. This means that it does not only take into account the opposition in words, but also wants to do business. As leader of one of the opposition groups willing to take a serious look at the proposals of this cabinet, I do need to know what this night's reflection means to the Prime Minister. How's he gonna deal with that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u44	I shall be defending cabinet policy here, as we have written down as a coalition. We will, of course, be talking to you in a number of ways. There is now a motion by Mr Asscher on a very specific point, which I think we all consider to be very important, namely the position of district nurses. We'll talk about that later. There is now a very concrete proposal from the Labour Party, supported by many parties here. This is something I think I will discuss with Mr Asscher in particular. That is the advantage of the fact that that motion was tabled yesterday. But I am, of course, defending what the coalition has invented here, because there is a reason for this. If we don't do this, if we don't keep the Netherlands attractive in that great international competition, we'll be praising the Netherlands out of the market. I believe that to the depths of my fibers. I'm absolutely convinced of that. I also agree with Mr Roemer that there should be no race to the bottom and that we should not forget that you should also invest in education and infrastructure, but if we do not do so, this will be at the expense of employment. Then we get what also happened in Belgium, where, apart from InBev, all the big companies are now gone. I don't want that to happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u45	I see the certainty, the sheer necessity, with which every fibre in the Prime Minister's body says that we must abolish the dividend tax. He's a lot more enthusiastic than Klaas Dijkhoff or Sybrand Buma yesterday. They said, "Well, maybe we should. Every fiber of this man says this has to be done. At least the same arguments must be used, the same need must be felt, as far as I am concerned, even a much stronger need, for the vulnerable in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u47	So, after yesterday's debate, I expect the cabinet to say in the same breath: yes, we are sticking to the miserable plan to spoil shareholders, but we understand that the House of Representatives, at least 71 of its seats, attaches great importance to the fact that we are now saying that it is necessary to help vulnerable people and that district nurses are not freaked out. That's what I expect from the Prime Minister, with at least a few fibers in his body.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u48	And rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u49	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u50	Well, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u51	This means that you are now indicating that we do not need to talk at all about holding on to the dividend tax. It's possible. We'll discuss that for a while. Jesse Klaver's already standing by. But at the same time, you say you're going to exempt district nurses from the cuts. You can't cut down vulnerable people and hand them out to shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr Asscher tabled a motion yesterday. I'll be right back to that, when it comes to care. I understand very well what he wants. I listened very carefully to what Louis Asscher said yesterday. I also saw what he said about it in the media. I think we are in complete agreement on the direction. Then it comes to the precise text and the question of whether we agree on it in detail. I'd like to discuss that with Lodewijk Asscher in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u53	It'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u54	That's what I want to do when we're talking about care, because it fits in with that context. I need to outline a broader context in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u55	Mr Rutte is trying to depoliticize it: it is simply common sense and of social importance. But that's bullshit, of course. This is the heart of the political conflict that Mr Rutte will have here in the years to come, with the left-wing opposition in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u56	No introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u57	I'm sorry, but it's just been half an hour about double passports. Mr Wilders has really been able to interrupt here for half an hour. This is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u58	Yeah, but no introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u59	This is about a great importance for our society. There's 1.4 billion being given away to foreign investors. Mr Rutte is talking about a good conversation. What the hell was that conversation about? On what does Mr Rutte base it that this 1.4 billion in dividend tax is really needed? Mr. Pechtold didn't know. Mr. Buma didn't know. Mr Dijkhoff did not know. Do you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u60	First of all: you can join each other, left and right, confessional and liberal, which flavors do we all have? There are differences of opinion on important social issues. Take, for example, leveling or de-leveling. There's a difference of opinion. These are fundamental political debates. I say that I want to depoliticize it because there is no ideological point underneath this: there is a party that wants to encourage the big companies, or who thinks it is important that we abolish that dividend tax or reduce the Vpb without anything against it. That doesn't play here. There's something else going on here. I would like to address the leader of GroenLinks, Mr Klaver, on his international profile. Maybe I can do more than Mr Roemer. Mr Klaver knows that this country is not an island. He knows that this country depends on how we behave in the world, on how attractive we are as a country, whether it is climate, agriculture or the Netherlands as a place of business. It brings with it direct jobs. The world is changing. We are dealing with a United Kingdom that is leaving the European Union. We're dealing with an unpredictable American government. We are dealing with countries in Europe that are preparing to do so. If we don't do it, we don't do our job as a coalition. That's not left or right. That's not high or low. It makes sense. You have to do this to make sure that the country remains attractive and so there remain jobs for very normal people. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u61	I believe that the only people who believe this makes sense are Mr Rutte and VNO-NCW. Mr Rutte states that this is a very logical and really not an ideological choice. How come I haven't found a single economist who says: this is incredibly sensible? The Central Planning Bureau indicates that it has no idea of the effect of this measure. I didn't find any literature that shows what the effect of lowering or completely removing the dividend tax is. I am therefore curious to hear the arguments put forward by the Prime Minister, not just a feeling that he has and that we are an open economy. These are all open doors. I have a very specific question, which I have also asked the coalition, but I have not received an answer. I'm not getting it from Mr. Rutte either. Where do you base yourself on the need to abolish this specific dividend tax measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u62	If you want to drive so that you can always say very precisely "if I press button a, then x, y and z happen, because bureau a, plan bureau b or agency for the living environment c have calculated it for me," then we might as well put a computer here. The political profession brings with it, I say to Mr Klaver, that you are weighing up on the basis of all the international and national signals we are getting. Of course, the dividend tax will be abolished or the Vpb reduced in, for example, the models of the Central Planning Bureau will be very limited or not visible. I understand that very well. The fact is that the United Kingdom, which is about to leave the European Union, has no dividend tax. If we see that other countries in the European Union do not have a dividend tax, and if we see that large economies such as France are trying to reduce their corporation tax to 25%, then you cannot sit still. If you do, Mr Klaver is laughing a little sheepish now, and I am allowed to do so, but I am very keen on the content, you take an irresponsible risk with Dutch jobs. And this coalition is simply not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u63	On the content, so we have to stick to the facts. The Vpb is neatly included in the calculations. There are economists, and also the CPB, who say that it does have an impact on the locational environment. But I read in the CPB's documents that there is no empirical evidence of what the dividend tax does, so I'm just hearing a fact-free speech from this Prime Minister. And yes, this is about more than knowing exactly what the outcome is. We are talking about EUR 1.4 billion, of which we have no idea of the effect. Mr Rutte, over EUR 1.4 billion, parliamentary surveys are being conducted here. We're having a debate here about 100 million for community nursing. We're talking 700 million extra for the teachers. And what do we hear about that? No, you can't; there isn't that money. Mr Rutte, if your claim is true that we do not know how it will work, why do you opt for these large multinationals, especially those foreign investors, and do you not choose district nurses and teachers? I don't get it, and I need you to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u64	If you choose teachers, if you choose district nurses, you have to make sure that enough tax can continue to be collected in the Netherlands in the future to cover all those important social functions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u65	1.4 billion is being given away!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u66	...to make sure that the money is there for all these important social functions. What do you need for that? I will say that directly to Mr Klaver. He may find it economical, but that's what reality is all about. The money in the Netherlands must be raised in business. That is where taxes are paid, so that we are able to have a good, strong public sector that works for all of us. If you as a cabinet, as the world changes, make sure that companies leave here or companies that want to come here do not do so anyway because they have problems with certain parts, for example the Vpb, if you do not respond to them within the changes that are going on, then you take a risk with Dutch jobs. We are talking here about 40% of jobs in the Netherlands in the free sector, 40% of jobs in the free sector! I'm not gonna take that chance. The world is changing, Mr Klaver knows that, and we must respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u67	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u68	What a blow to the face of Dutch citizens. Really. Are you really saying that all taxes in this country are levied by business? In recent years, the taxes we impose on the profits of companies have remained about the same; that is about 10% of the total income from taxes. The rest, the vast majority, is brought up by the people who work in this country...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u69	Where do these people work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u70	...tax they pay on their income. When it comes to employment, we see that the dividend tax has no effect on this. Half of the multinationals in the Netherlands are Dutch multinationals. The vast majority of people work in SMEs. If Mr Rutte really wants to boost employment, which is quite right, give it back 1.4 billion in other ways. That could be done by not raising VAT so hard. This can be achieved by reducing employers' burdens. That's how you increase employment. This is a gift to American investors, nothing more, nothing less. I know Mr Rutte as an honest man, and if he's honest, he'll just admit it. But don't let him stand here with what it does for employment and with what this means for our establishment policy. This is not helping our economy. This helps US investors move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u71	I ask Mr Klaver a simple question. A quarter of Dutch employees work in the collective sector and three quarters work in the private sector. Where do they work? At companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u72	Yes, you are being asked a question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u73	Where do they work? The whole point I'm making is that if you're employment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u74	Very sharp, though. Mr. Klaver is stuttering a bit now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u75	No, I don't stutter. Listen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u76	Let me explain the question. Three quarters of people work in companies. Small businesses don't have much choice. They probably settle in the Netherlands and don't just cross the border. But a lot of these small businesses supply large companies. Large companies account for 40% of jobs in Dutch business. The whole Dutch business includes about three-quarters of all jobs in the Netherlands. They do have the choice where they settle. If you say as a politician, because you find it annoying to bring a difficult message... It is of course not an easy message, I get that too, because it is much more fun to reduce income tax for 1.4 billion extra; fortunately we are already reducing it by 5 billion. Of course you would like to put it on top, but this is necessary because otherwise you do not have those jobs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u77	That's not true. It's pure, but it's pure nonsense. The whole argument I am making here, the whole argument is based on the fact that if you want to mean something for employment in the Netherlands, even for all those companies sitting here, lowering the dividend tax will have no effect on that. Of course, people work in companies. The work they do there is very important for the Netherlands, but if you really think that those people will continue to work there by lowering the dividend tax, then I say that this only affects shareholders and investors. We see no effect on employment in the Netherlands. Then there are many other measures to be taken. Then there are many other measures to come up with. That's what I'm challenging this Prime Minister to do. So he really needs to stop thinking that this is the ultimate point to make sure companies stay in the Netherlands. It's pure nonsense. It is an ideologically driven story and has nothing to do with pragmatism. It's an ideologically driven story with a race to the bottom. This will ensure that there will indeed be more and more countries in Europe and that the taxes that large companies have to pay will continue to fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u78	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u79	I will say again to Mr Klaver that the Netherlands is not an island. We are one of the most connected economies in the world. And there's a lot going on right now. In the European Union the departure of the United Kingdom is taking place. The United Kingdom has no dividend tax. The United Kingdom has a low Vpb rate. France is in the process of lowering the VPB rate. Other countries are working on it. If you don't play into that, you're taking a risk with tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, potentially millions of jobs. I don't want to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u80	Do not repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u81	It's pure nonsense. But one thing is clear to me, and let me draw that conclusion: one call from VNO-NCW is more important than 90,000 people who say no is more important than 10 million voters who did not vote for it. It's clear, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u82	That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u83	The Prime Minister is threatening to overscrap himself in the certainty with which he says that this is necessary. We are also a little scared: thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of jobs if we do not get rid of that 1.4 billion. If you really look at the facts and also at the private sector, you can see that this creates 1.4 billion zero jobs. Maybe it's holding jobs, but it's generating zero jobs. The reduction of 0.5 billion on the disabled will lead to zero jobs. With the same amount of money in the private sector, if you pay out these wage subsidies, that would create 14,000 real jobs in the private sector. Those people are gonna pay taxes. In other words, it would be a credit to the Prime Minister if he did not shout out in the debate with Jesse Klaver and if he is honest about the fact that he is trying to manage a risk. There's a risk. He also chooses the Dijkhoff line. We don't know. We're taking a 1.4 billion guess here. You think it is justified, I do not think it can be explained in the light of the needs of the Netherlands now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u84	What Mr Asscher is doing now is to reject this point in isolation against another policy option. That's true, of course. Our profession as politicians is making choices in scarcity. You're making choices in scarcity, you can only spend the money once unless you're lucky you can't get counter-budgets here that add 5 billion extra to the costs. But luckily we don't see that kind of crazy. When you make choices in scarcity, you also have to look at exactly what you spend the money on and how you do it. Mr Asscher spoke just now about the importance of employing employers with sufficient employment disabilities. That is a very relevant point. We'll talk about that later. The cabinet makes choices that the coalition with the Labour Party also made in 2012 and that makes the cabinet again. Those are steps you can take together. You can agree or disagree, but doing one doesn't mean the other can't. You'll have to make sure that you distribute the cake, which is limited, as best you can, that you spend the money as best you can. Here you have to deal with location factors on the one hand in the Netherlands, and are also attractive for disabled people to get to work and at the same time you have to take care of our business. That really is the cork on which all the beautiful things we can do here float. Think of the extra money for nursing care and the discussion we are about to have about the district nurses. All that money is not there if we in the Netherlands do not have someone who wakes up in the morning and tells his wife or husband that he is going to start for himself, hire people and cause economic growth. In the end, that is how the money is to be earned, so that this very useful work by teachers, people at the Department of Defence and people in care can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u85	A stark contrast: the economy, the caution, you can only spend the money once, you need to know exactly what you're spending it on when it comes to the teacher, the district nurse, the disabled person, oh, oh, oh, and the enormous certainty with which you give 1.4 billion euros without that security to foreign investors. 'Cause that's what's going on here. This isn't about people thinking, I'm starting my own business. No, this is about shareholders, foreign shareholders. The Central Planning Office says that this is a relief for abroad. The certainty with which you are now doing so was not in any election programme. There is no company that pleads for it, apart from a number of large multinationals via VNO-NCW. It really is in stark contrast to the promise that every Dutchman will make progress, with the promise that after these lean years we will invest in society. That is what deserves priority now, that is what is needed now in the Netherlands and not this unmotivated, undisputed gift. An early Sinterklaas gift for abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u86	I'm gonna put my facts on the wrong foot. Let's just be polite. We have Mr Asscher here, who has his facts complex. I would like to add my factual complex, namely that 40% of employment in the free sector comes from companies operating internationally, and that the world is changing. I referred to the United Kingdom. 65 million people leave the European Union, have no dividend tax and a low Vpb rate. Other countries are in the process of lowering the VPB rate. There are more countries with no dividend tax. The Netherlands is very dependent on our international competitiveness, on those large companies with their head office functions and, consequently, on all the sub-contracting industries that are important for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Netherlands is very dependent on this international climate of establishment here and on the fact that we are doing it well. And yes, that is a question of education, infrastructure, Schiphol, Rotterdam, the port, you name it. It's also what you do about taxes in the end. We can't afford any more risks here. You can't do that. I agree with Mr Roemer: no race to the bottom. This coalition doesn't want that. At the same time, we're going to make the mailbox -- for example, life miserable. So we do other things, too. We want to get a good kind of activity here and keep it here. We no longer need the wrong kind of activity. But those are choices we make. Not ideologically, not politically left or right, but really in the interest of maintaining labour in the Netherlands, I say to the leader of the Party of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u88	Very briefly. Let us indeed take facts on the basis of facts. Can the Prime Minister call me three economists who think this is wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u89	No, I can't. What I can say is that in recent years I myself have talked internationally with a lot of companies that decide whether or not to go to the Netherlands. Then there are the considerations of the Concertgebouw or the Concertgebouw Orchestra, because the top man likes to go there on Thursday evening, through the quality of education, our infrastructure and the quality of Schiphol. In the end, in addition to all those not directly measurable points, it is very crucial in the board meeting where those decisions are taken, the question is: what is the tax burden that I am going to get in that country? I've heard that in the past few years. This applies not only to me, but also to Mr Asscher who has travelled, and to many people who represent the Netherlands internationally. This is a very strong argument, which has only become stronger in recent times, due to the major changes taking place in America, the departure of the United Kingdom and the fact that a number of countries are looking very critically at their own tax burden on business. That is why we are doing this. So I can't name three economists here. I can tell you that, on the basis of everything I know and have talks internationally, this is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u90	So we're going to spend 1.4 billion now, not because economists think it's sensible, not because it's in election programs, not because there's any indication that it's creating jobs, not because the Central Planning Bureau says it's effective, but because there's one man here who knows with every fiber in his body that it has to, who's got one phone call and scared by VNO-NCW. That's how I want to spend 1.4 billion! This is completely irresponsible! I'm right to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. This does not do justice to our discussion so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u92	You say, "Let's discuss the facts." I ask: who supports this vision, other than the Prime Minister himself? Not your coalition partners who say, "We're gonna take our chances."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u93	I told you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u94	They're convinced by you. I find this really irresponsible in dealing with taxpayers' money, which should be spent in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u95	I think that Mr Asscher is really taking an irresponsible risk with employment in the Netherlands. I haven't touched on a new subject yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u96	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u97	No, before I give the floor to you and Mr Klaver, this point has been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u98	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u99	I don't want us to repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u100	No, I'm not going to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u101	I'd like to report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u102	I'll try not to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u103	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u104	My question to the Prime Minister is: where does it stop? For now we are going to lower this, tomorrow the other side will lower it, then that country will lower it and then we will have to lower it again. What else are we gonna do after that? Are we going to say: now the wages are too high again? Then the wages go down. Yes, then we are not competitive enough and then the protection against dismissal must be abolished altogether. Where does this stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u105	This is not the case at all. Look, for example, at the reduction in corporate tax, which is to a very large extent brought about by the greening measures taken by the cabinet. In a situation where we share the ambition to reduce CO emissions drastically, for example, industry will have to play a major role. That's what they're gonna hit. If you did not then compensate for this by reducing the burden in a different way, it could lead to a deterioration in our competitiveness, and you do not want that. So that's why that's going to be a significant reduction in corporate tax. And yes, that also keeps us on track with what is happening at European level. Those are the facts. This is not a question of reducing, as Mr Roemer says. This is about keeping the Netherlands attractive as a country of residence. And really, that's crucial when you want to hold jobs here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u106	The Netherlands is about the most attractive location...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u107	Yeah, thanks to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u108	80 out of 100 American companies are here, especially on the Zuidas. We're already a tax haven. We've gone down a lot in the last few years. The profit tax was even 48% once. Now it is only 25% and has to go further down. But my question was, where does it end? We're gonna go downstairs and France's gonna go downstairs. Then perhaps Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg will also say in a moment that they are going down or are going to abolish the tax on profits. What are we gonna do? Are we going to go down again? The company's contribution to the tax depot in the Netherlands has already gone down, while the profits have risen significantly. The contribution is therefore becoming less and less so. Where does this race to the bottom end when it's up to the prime minister? When is this tax war gonna end?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u109	In the crisis, business has experienced heavy burdens, as have the citizens, the employees of businesses and the public authorities. We have all been faced with heavy burdens in the crisis. Fortunately, we are now able to significantly reduce the burden for the workers, with about 5 billion net under the line...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u110	This isn't... yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u111	...but not for the companies. For companies, the tax burden is increasing by 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u112	It's really gonna be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u113	But this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u114	This is just not true! Since 2009 we had 9% revenue from business in our tax pool. Now that's 7%, so it's gotten less in the total pot. But for the third time, Mr President, my question is: when will the reduction, reduction, reduction and abolition of taxes for multinationals end? When does that end? The fact that the Prime Minister cannot give an answer to this is in fact proof that there is a race to the bottom in Europe that causes this cabinet, a tax war at the expense of people and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u115	Mr Roemer takes out one or two tax items. The total contribution of Dutch industry to the tax revenue collected in the Netherlands varies from one third to 40%. The rest is brought in by the citizens. In recent years, industry has experienced considerable burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u116	It is really a very simple question: where is the soil? Mr Rutte's entire plea has been built up along the line that if other countries reduce their tax on capital, we are talking about profit tax, the Netherlands must go along with it. Where is the bottom, Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u117	I would understand Mr Roemer's question if we were to spend a great deal of money on reducing corporation tax from the general budget. Then you'll find yourself in the ideological, political-principal discussion. What we are doing here is giving back to business what we are collecting from all greening measures. In total, over 3 billion extra will be collected from companies in the coming years due to all kinds of greening, which are partly included in the GroenLinks programme. We are giving this back to you to a large extent through a reduction in corporate tax. I understand in itself the question of where this ends, if you were to give more and more money from the general funds to the companies and thus the mix between what individuals, the employees, pay and what companies pay, would get worse and worse to the detriment of the employees. But we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u118	Where's the bottom? How simple can the question be? This is really old kale rutte, vintage rutte. He brings in all kinds of stuff, but I have a very simple question. His whole plea is built around the idea that if other countries go down, the Netherlands should follow. Where's the bottom? Does this mean that if Germany or Belgium were to go to 10%, we would have to go to 5%? Where's the bottom? I mean by this to indicate that this strategy of "we have to adapt to the rest" is a rotten bad one. Where is most of the large amount of taxes that companies pay? Not in taxes on profits or dividends. It's in the taxes they have to pay on employees, on employee contributions. If you want to do something about employment in this country, that's where you have to pinpoint. I do not think it is enough for the Prime Minister to say: 'In all my international contacts, it has become clear to me that it is so important to bring down the dividend tax'. If that was really so important, it was in his election program. If it was really that important, the coalition parties would have just defended this here yesterday. If it was really so important, he would now have received massive support for why this has to be done now in the Dutch economy. It seems to be his personal hobby to bring down the dividend tax or to abolish it altogether. That is a ruinous road, Mr Rutte. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u119	Again, the question where this ends I would understand if you spent money from the general funds, so money that you could have spent on education, infrastructure or defense, on reducing the profit tax. We don't do that here. What we are doing here is greening taxes on the one hand. That is also in line with many electoral programmes. We are making sure that companies are actually going to contribute, and we are going to notice that: the polluter pays. Then you can see that there is an important international issue about the level of our corporate tax; that is what we are talking about. This also reduces corporate tax. I understand Mr Klaver's idea: you could also reduce the Awf premiums. But this point starts to play when you look at international competition issues. The Awf premium can be down and up, but that has much less effect on where companies settle or stay than what you do with the income tax. That is why this cabinet has chosen to put this above all into a reduction in corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u120	I'm going to see Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u121	Let's talk about the dividend tax. If you look at where people find jobs, you will see that this is particularly true in small and medium-sized enterprises. There's no way around that. Mr Rutte can't get around it either. We must nurture that. It's incredibly important. This allows young people to start their own start-up. Innovation also often starts with small businesses. Small is, in fact, the new big. That should be the adadium. We can be innovative in that. We can give small businesses all the space for that. In fact, multinational companies are blocking this, which is why we are opposed to free trade agreements. But I just heard Mr Rutte say: when I speak to multinationals in international forums, I find that at the end of the assessment of the locational environment they always reflect on how much dividend tax they will have to pay; on that basis they assess whether they want to settle or not. If a multinational is guided by the question of where the dividend tax is lowest, such a multinational, if that tax falls somewhere else in the world, will go straight to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u122	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u123	The problem is that this multinational is a very unreliable employer. Is it not very important that we draw the multinationals here by reducing the tax on labour? That's interesting. Then it becomes attractive to hire more people instead of allowing multinationals to move around by lowering the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u124	Mrs Thieme, through you, I would like to make a comment to all those who are about to interrupt. At the beginning I said: no long introductions, no reflections. Yesterday, everyone announced their position. Really, interruptions should be short, a comment or a question. This isn't for you personally, but I'll tell you through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u125	No, I don't think so, no. When I look at the previous speakers, I find that I can take some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u126	You may interrupt, but it must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u127	There was some introduction!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u128	Certainly, but it is also very important to point out here that we are opting for SMEs and not for multinationals and that it is unwise to give multinational companies every opportunity to compete on dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u129	Was that a new interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u130	No, a brief summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u131	So it's possible! Seriously. It's both true. I agree, of course, with Mrs Thieme that small and medium-sized enterprises are crucial. I was just talking about the man or woman who wakes up in the morning and tells his partner that he's gonna start himself, hire people, pursue a dream, build a business, and by hiring people, he's gonna generate economic growth again. In the end, that is what makes this country great, and we also have money to do the important work in all those sectors for which we are responsible as a government, in nursing, in defense, in the police. That's absolutely true. But you can't look at that in isolation only if you know that 40% of the jobs depend on the companies that work internationally and if you know that the Netherlands is internationally connected. Mrs Thieme says she is against international free trade agreements. Is she going to explain to hundreds of thousands of Dutch workers that they would lose their jobs if they came to power here? That was to be avoided, because the damage is really enormous. You can't do one thing and leave the other. You'll always have to find the right optimum in the mix of things. Of course, it's not like a company's gonna set up its head office here and then tear down that entire head office and move everything to another country because that country's gonna change its tax rate a little bit. But there are times when companies decide: am I staying or am I coming? They'll have a look at it. Of course, that is a decision for the longer term. Those companies are always there for the longer term. But there are times when it is decided on in the management boards and in the supervisory boards. That happens with a certain regularity, but not on the basis of months or years. Of course, it's always for a longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u132	This cabinet runs on the leash of the multinationals. Multinationals therefore want the lowest possible taxation. If that's dividend taxation, they're gonna judge it. They're showing themselves to be a bad employer. Then it is not a question of: where can I show good employership, where can I establish myself in a good infrastructure, with good education? No, it'll just depend on the dividend tax. I think it would be better if these multinationals were to settle here if they also chose the people here in the Netherlands. We can make this attractive by reducing the tax on labour and not by reducing the tax on dividends. I don't understand why that choice is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u133	It's quiet all of a sudden. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I just walked to my bench, I heard the Prime Minister add that I am taking an irresponsible risk because I do not want to abolish the dividend tax. I would like to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to take that back. That seems too certain to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u135	So you wanted to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u136	What I have said, or at least what I wanted to say, is that Mr Asscher here in the debate gives the impression that there is no link between what you are doing there and the employment risks we are facing in the Netherlands with regard to the tax burden for large international companies. I think it is up to a cabinet to do the best it can to ensure that these companies come and stay here. Something's been going on for the past year. In particular, it concerns the UK, the new French Government and other developments in Europe. So I insist that I find it irresponsible to ignore these developments. If I've put that a little too sharply, I'd be happy to take it back. I know that Mr Asscher also considers the international climate of establishment to be very important, no doubt about it. But you can't say you're ignoring those developments. I heard him like that. If I've misunderstood him, I certainly didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u137	We're not ignoring these developments either. I pointed out very quietly that there are no economists, no specialists to be found who say that this is a necessary measure. People don't know what the effect is. I pointed out that you're spending a lot of money for an uncertain effect. I was then called upon to take an irresponsible risk as leader of the Labour Party. Just when you are committed to facts and to a business and balanced debate, it would be more honest if the Prime Minister said: I believe in this very much, because I have heard it in my contacts; I am quite alone in it, and that is why I am trying to convince you. You cannot blame the Labour Party for taking an irresponsible risk if it does not support this measure. I would like to talk about other measures on establishment policy, but this measure is not sufficiently motivated, is not supported and costs incredibly much money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u138	This clarifies the matter, but I still stand by what I just said to one of the other participants in the discussion about if we can only make decisions on the basis of a model that says very precisely 'if you do a, then that outcome b'. We know that these models are primarily national. You are dealing here with internationally shifting panels in which the international competitiveness of the Netherlands is at stake. If, based on the fact that you can't get that one-on-one out of a model, you wouldn't, then I think we're taking big risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u139	You've made your point. Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not referring to a model at all. I get it about these models. You've got to keep finding something of that yourself. But it is the other extreme to spend 1.4 billion because the Prime Minister has heard on his travels that companies find that annoying. I've heard him say toe-dokie when people said, "I find it so difficult, those taxes and those bonus rules. You can have that attitude, too. That private experience is not enough. You may try to convince us of this, but at least that is not enough to blame another person who is serious about the debate for taking an irresponsible risk. Yes, establishment policy is important. Yeah, we'd like to have these employers here. But no, dividend tax is an unproven medicine for a disease. It's also an incredibly expensive medicine. We'd better use that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u141	Again, you cannot drive like that, and so does Mr Asscher. We are dealing with relevant international developments that are currently taking place. If we ignore them and don't act on them, we're taking big risks. That's what I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u142	Please continue. I really want to finish this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u143	I'm getting to the property tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u144	I have one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u145	Yeah, one question. I've seen the same question go by in different forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u146	No introduction. Since this Prime Minister is talking about his tea water and how he makes choices, I would like to have a list of the companies he has been talking to and who have told him that the dividend tax should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u147	We don't. Then we have the issue of capital taxes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u148	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u149	Sorry. I really wanted to ask one question. If he'd said yes, we'd be done. I think it's really weird. The Prime Minister says here: I feel it in my tea water, I speak with all kinds of relevant international actors. When I speak to these companies, he says, I really believe that we should. We're going to spend $1.4 billion on these companies. Widespread in this Chamber is said: we do not like it, we do not think it will work. I want the Prime Minister to give us an overview of the companies he has been talking to and who have asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u150	Of course, that is not possible. Why isn't that possible? We are all advised in our work by all possible social groups. They can be organisations, they can be companies, they can be NGOs. In the end, we are doing that here, Mr Klaver, and I do that, and we are doing that all of us are doing our own political considerations on the basis of all the information we can get. That applies to Mr Klaver when it comes to environmental policy. That applies to me and this cabinet when it comes to the locational environment and environmental policy. What I don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u151	Here's a crucial difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u152	It's out of the question... can I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u154	It is not possible that you will damage the confidentiality of conversations by giving interview reports of all kinds of conversations you have, formal, informal, national and international. That's completely impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u155	Here's a crucial difference. Mr Rutte just indicated as an authority argument that there are all kinds of companies that point out to him that this is important for the location climate in the Netherlands. I'm not asking for interview reports. I don't need to know the exact words. I would just like to ask for a list of the companies that have insisted on abolishing the dividend tax. Why is that important? This argument, that there are companies that want it, is the only argument that remains why we have to spend 1.4 billion. This is about the Court's budgetary law. I want to know which companies they are. That is why once again the question, and also through you, Mr President. This is a request for information. I'm not asking for interview reports. I want the names of the companies that asked this Prime Minister for a $1.4 billion present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u156	Again, if you have to share all the possible contacts and advice we get as input for our work that ultimately leads to your own consideration of a political positioning, if all that input you get, you can forget that you get that input, because then all those organizations know: yes wait a minute, Mr Klaver comes to the microphone and then it becomes known that I may have made a plea for a or wish on point b. Then you can no longer work. So that's really out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u157	That's bullshit, too. We've got all the interview reports, all the letters, all the information from companies, everything the cabinet has gotten in preparation for the cabinet become. That's all been done. We've all been able to see that. There is no empirical evidence for the 1.4 billion present for abolishing the dividend tax. There is no planning agency that advises it not to find an economist, not a party that had it in its election programme. But a few talks with the Prime Minister have convinced him that he has to. Then it's not weird at all that that question is there. Let us therefore be convinced by the same companies. Which CEOs did you speak to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u158	That was the same question as Mr Klaver's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u159	I refer to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u160	It's 1.4 billion taxpayers' money. We do indeed have the budget right in the Chamber. A mega amount is given as a gift and we do not get the argument on which it is based. No one brought it in. No one calculated it. No one has it in his election program. So this is indeed an employer's cabinet that distributes gifts to foreign investors and we cannot know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u161	I have argued in the last 45 minutes why this coalition is coming up with the proposals it is coming up with. For all of us, you will, of course, receive advice from all relevant social actors. It'd be crazy if it wasn't. But then it is a political balance, which Mr Roemer makes, and Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold and everyone, which you make political decisions for. If it were known in advance that you'd have to make all the advice you're getting public, the phone would stop. Not just with me, but with a lot of people here in the room. That is, moreover, different from the formation dossier, which is subject to a more specific regime. Companies and civil society organisations that are sending something to that area also know that this will become public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u162	I heard the Prime Minister yesterday talk about a huge crack towards the opposition. All I see today is a tan door. What did he mean by that huge crack?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u163	We now have one subject to cut. This is the dividend tax and the reduction of corporation tax broader in the context of the international establishment environment. Mr Asscher also asked about the crack. We will be discussing this later, but I told him that the cabinet is going to draw up its plans for this and, of course, to discuss it with the Chamber. The cabinet will always taste on the tongue and weigh on the hand whatever has been said about it in this kind of debate. More specifically, there is now a proposal from the opposition about the position of the district nurse. I would like to discuss this in greater detail with the leader of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u164	With regard to Jesse Klaver's request for information, I believe that the Constitution requires that information should be provided at least up to the level that the government considers to be justified, which it should motivate. That could be based on anonymity in this case. It may even be that only the number of calls is mentioned, the number of notifications. It is not about publicising opinions given in the private sphere, unless the Prime Minister states here: it was not really advocated, but I got that impression from those conversations at receptions and so on. If it is as he has just said, namely that in his international contacts, of which he has had a lot more than I have, he has been called upon to do so on a regular basis, and that for him now is one of the reasons for this proposal worth 1.4 billion, then the government is obliged, on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, to provide information on this matter if one of our Members so requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u165	Sure. I just did. And Mr Asscher is smart, because he puts in the word "receptions." Then you get such an atmosphere, while you stand with a glass of champagne: well, would you mind taking care of that? He's doing a good job. Really, handsome. Really handsome. Just that word "reception," yeah. Also for the viewer at home: this is the real craftsmanship. You can see he's controlling it. But I'll keep my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u166	I take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u167	This is called a deadly hug.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u168	I take it back. I would never pretend that Rutte would be sensitive to this kind of pleas while enjoying champagne. So they were serious conversations and I'm holding up the information request that Klaver made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u169	I just answered that information request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u170	Then I address you, Mr President, as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u171	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u172	Mr Asscher puts it very precisely. I asked for the names, but it could also be that at least we have the right to know how many companies the Prime Minister has asked for them. Why is that important? This is about spending EUR 1.4 billion. There's a lot of criticism about that. No argument has been heard as to why that should be. The only argument is that in my international contacts I am becoming clear that we must do so. Mr President, you, too, as President of this Chamber, this is a request for information to account for why this coalition has come to this decision. If we do not get that information, then the House of Representatives is lagging behind, and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u173	A fairly basic point is raised here, namely whether we are a kind of carbon paper in terms of: there are people who say something to you and then you are going to do it. If that were the case, I would understand Mr Klaver's question. But I believe that the profession works in such a way that we get opinions from society, which Mr Klaver gets, which I get from all possible social actors and that a political balance is ultimately made. We make them here, we make them in the party, we make them in the coalition, we make them in the opposition. This is ultimately reflected here in this House of Representatives. That's how it works. But if it were to become known who would all talk to Mr Klaver or to me and say "would you stop saying that" or "sweet sister," also at an aggregated level, then we would not be able to do our job anymore. That is why I have just said that I have already answered the request for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u174	But I don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u175	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u176	I really think so, and otherwise I will make an order proposal, which we should vote on, that the House of Representatives should have an insight into who the Prime Minister has talked to about this. I find it really impossible for the Prime Minister to say: I have all kinds of contacts with international companies, but I am not going to tell you who. We're going to spend 1.4 billion! I haven't heard any argument as to why it should be. It's just these contacts. If the Prime Minister does not agree to this, I will make an order proposal and I want to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u177	I answered the question exactly as I answered it, so I complied with that information request. Furthermore, I refer to my previous answers: it makes our functioning impossible if you can be questioned about every contact you have, that I have, then in public, also at an aggregated level. Then we can't do our job. It would be relevant if we were to take over all those opinions without any further political weighting. Then Mr Klaver is right, but of course that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u178	You also asked me a question, that's right. In my view, Mr Asscher also mentioned that, on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, the Chamber is simply entitled to information, sometimes passively, but also actively. But there are also exceptions to this. I cannot judge the status of the talks or correspondence or anything else in order to say that I would like to ask the Prime Minister now. Is it an idea to return to this at a later stage in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u179	I've said all about that, Mr. Chairman. I also think it is a matter of principle, because I really think it affects the work that we, as politicians, not so much as a chamber cabinet but also a wider one, are doing. You get advice from all kinds of people, but in the end you make your own political judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u180	At the same time, I am also looking at the Prime Minister, because we have also been given a formation archive, which includes all kinds of letters...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u181	Yes, but these companies know: if they send something to the formatter, the formation archive becomes public. That's a choice those companies make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u182	Let me take a look at Mr Van der Staaij. He often has these brilliant ideas to get out of a procedural impasse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u183	Thank you for this. What I see when we regularly disagree on whether Article 68 is being complied with is that ultimately the one who is dissatisfied about it will table a motion and thus formulate what he wants to hear as precisely as possible, after which the Chamber will be able to take a decision in a debate on Rule 68. I think that is better than suddenly having a vote on an oral request. That's a messed-up character.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u184	I agree with Van der Staaij in this respect that we are now having a discussion on exactly what the arguments used were. Were they arguments that you are indeed saying: you need to provide further information about? Or was it more anecdotal? My request would be to put the arguments we have just heard orally on paper at this point and to send them to the Chamber. Then we can then consider whether or not a motion will be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u185	I'll take a look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u186	We also get the shorthand report. Then I'll send it to the Chamber with a note. I have mentioned all the arguments here. I'm not gonna put civil servants to work to put something else on paper that I've already told you here. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u187	Now you seem a little reluctant. I am accused of taking an irresponsible risk with employment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u188	We discussed it for an hour!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u189	I am accused of taking an irresponsible risk with employment, because I did not understand how important this is. As an argument for this, the Prime Minister maintains: talks he has had and information he has received. Clover says: I'd like to know more about that. No, the Prime Minister says you can't. My request to him is, before I know how I will vote on any motion to force the government to do so, to put these arguments together again, because they are different arguments than we found in the coalition agreement, other than those we found in the discussion yesterday with the group leaders, who were much more open about them. This is a very simple request. If he himself chooses to do away with the Chamber with the stenographic report, that is his responsibility; I will wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u190	I will explain very precisely why we did this, because Mr Asscher is narrowing that down to what we say, giving signals to companies, both internationally and nationally. I have also mentioned all the other arguments. I have outlined how the Netherlands, as an open, internationally functioning economy, depends on whether international companies are willing to settle and stay here. That's a risk and an opportunity, I've outlined. I have outlined the situation in Europe at the moment, in the United Kingdom as well as in other countries, which are taking decisions on the level of, for example, their corporation tax. I have outlined the global situation, in which we are dealing with the unpredictability of the US Government and the rise of the US Government, and I would like to add this as an additional point now from large Asian countries to which companies can ultimately move. We've seen that, too. I then outlined the importance of the Netherlands, when 40% of the jobs in business ultimately relate to this type of internationally operating business. I mentioned that whole fact-finding complex. If Mr Asscher wants me to put what I have just said in the last three minutes in a letter, I will do so. But there's nothing new in it, it's exactly what I've told you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u191	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u192	What is new is that the Prime Minister does not now repeat the arguments he has just used in my direction, in Mr Klaver's and in Mr Roemer's, namely the contacts that have led him to consider that this is a necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u193	I mentioned it at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u194	The Prime Minister doesn't repeat it. He mentioned a number of factual circumstances that make you worry about the locational climate. But just now was decisive in the discussion what he heard. He could not name an economist, but had heard in direct conversations that this was a necessity. Then came Klaver's question. It'll be two-and-a-half. Either there will be further information on the content, the arguments and the number of talks, as far as possible in order to protect the anonymity of those who have put forward this great idea, or it was not an argument afterwards, and then we will return to the observation that there is no economist who thinks it is sensible, but that this Prime Minister considers it necessary in the overall context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u195	I started by saying something, as in my brief summary, about the importance of all the signals you get, both internationally and nationally. Indeed, these are also signals from the international business community. I then outlined the whole international geopolitical situation. Once again, if Mr Asscher wishes to make that point, with this clarification, on paper, then I can take care of it. I'll let you know what I just said. But that's it, that's all it is. That is the argument, and that is what is being discussed. We've had a good talk about that in the last hour. That is useful and I welcome it. I think it's also good that we've had this. Then the question was whether it is still adaptable and what we will do with it. I said: we are going to work on these proposals and, of course, we are considering what we have heard here. That's obvious, because we always do. I therefore believe that I am doing justice to this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u196	My very last question, Mr President. I understand very well that the Prime Minister says: we have had this now. However, I do not know whether that is true. I have one more question about these contacts with the international business community. Can the Prime Minister indicate the frequency at which that was mentioned? Has that been mentioned five times, ten times suggested, a hundred times suggested? It's made a very big impression on him. I'm sure he has memories of how many times this has been said to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mr Asscher is also doing this cleverly, because 'that has made a great impression on him' is his observation, because I did not say that. I said: in the overall mix of signals we have here as politicians, the geopolitical situation, the situation in Europe, the position of our own industry in the subcontracting industry, the international companies that are based in the Netherlands, the companies that might be able to consider leaving and the companies that might be able to consider coming, I think it is very important to take these steps. Not only do I agree with you, but this coalition feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u198	The number does, of course, matter, because it accounts for 40% of Dutch workers and millions of jobs. Was it one call, one company? Was it five? Was it a hundred? Can the Prime Minister answer that? I'd like to be convinced by him. He knows more than I do. It has been warned, people are threatening to leave, there are jobs on the road, I am irresponsible about those jobs. Then I'd like to hear: was it one, was it two, three? How many times has this been said exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u199	What Mr Asscher is doing now is to highlight the one aspect, the signal that companies are sending out. In doing so, he completely unleashes the international geopolitical context. I said, you have to look at it in the full context. That's one. He then asks for all kinds of advice that reach him, me, all of us, or in this case reach me or the cabinet or this coalition. I have said that this affects the confidentiality of these contacts, so that is not possible. We need to keep the discussion pure. I've outlined it in the broad context. It is not the case, as Mr Asscher said, that I was impressed by one signal or one opinion. No, but in the end, we have to do our job. We all do that here, opposition or coalition, government or chamber. On the basis of the advice we receive and all the impressions we collect, we make our own political assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u200	I see Mr Roemer and I see Mr Klaver. I think the positions are clear now. If you have a concrete proposal or a specific question, I will allow it. Otherwise, I would like to propose that we move on to other subjects, health care, education, justice. All these questions need to be answered. Those are questions that have been asked from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u201	Mr President, I'm fine. I will leave the proposal to Mr Klaver. All I can see is that no one from the Chamber brought this in, no one from the Planning Bureau brought this in, no one from the economists brought this in. See here the power of the powerful lobby of the multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u202	I shall table a motion on this matter in the second term. That will be about the information position of the Lower House at the moment, but also about a much more fundamental point; and I find that really shocking. The Prime Minister spoke just now about the fact that there are letters that come into the file of the formation, to which everyone has access. That's what companies know, he says, but apparently there are other entrances that make companies know that the information they give is not going to be public. And that, as I understand from the Prime Minister, they make frequent use of it. I find that worrying when it comes to the transparency of the whole formation process. We shall come back to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u203	That's bullshit. I said that, whether Greenpeace or VNO-NCW, they know that a letter they send to the informant will eventually become public. So companies and organisations can take that into account. In addition, there are all kinds of other contacts, which Mr Klaver also has, as I do with Greenpeace; you do not want to believe that up to and including VNO-NCW, FNV and all kinds of other organisations on all kinds of issues that are not in the formation dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u204	Actually, I'd like to suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u205	I think that's a good idea. Mr. Chairman. I was almost done with the taxes, but I only now come to the second issue. Anyway, I'm gonna try to do it even shorter. I will briefly comment on the capital tax. The coalition agreement is clear on that. I'm not gonna read that all over here again. The coalition agreement is perfectly clear. As far as income inequality in the Netherlands is concerned, I would point out that it is falling under this cabinet. This decline is not only in the long term, but also in this cabinet period it is already falling by 1.1%. It has also been announced that Mr Van Rooijen will be fighting this week to amend parts of the Tax Plan. We are waiting for that with tension. The second issue is purchasing power. Then I come to the labour market and care. I'll start with purchasing power. What's the situation? On average, a household in the Netherlands improves over this period of €900. This includes all measures, including VAT. That is on average €230 net per year. This is €300 per year for workers and for people with benefits and for pensioners it is slightly lower. But everyone is making a lot of progress, at least all groups are making a lot of progress. Of course, there are always individuals, individuals, who can deteriorate due to a build-up of circumstances, but all groups are improving. In the Netherlands, too, the overwhelming majority is improving. And why do we do that? Because we think it is important that after the crisis, coming from that crisis, people start to experience that the Netherlands is doing better. Hence also a reduction in the tax burden and a full refund to the workers of the VAT increase. I will go straight to Mr Krol, who asked about the elderly. The older people with a somewhat larger pension are affected by the incomplete pension index, but that is not a matter for the government. This is a matter for employers and employees. Our goal is, of course, to achieve a more stable pension system in the coming years. We do this from the point of view of our legislative role, but once again, it is up to employers and employees to put it into practice. Mr President, given the time available, I would suggest that we complete the purchasing power questions and perhaps take all the questions at once. Of course, a question has also been asked about the position of the earners in the Netherlands. First of all, we see that the cabinet takes a whole series of family-friendly measures, that the purchasing power of a single earner with a moderate income is most advanced with this cabinet, about 2% a year. So that's a single earner with a modal income. That's the group that's going to rise the most. On balance, government policy is neutral for one and two-earners. While everything underneath is happening, you can see that the effect of cabinet policy is ultimately neutral. The suggestion that the budget surplus should be evaporated and that extra money should be spent on these issues would be unwise to me. Because we need a buffer in the event of, for example, an international crisis or a sudden deterioration of the economy. Of course, it is important that we also have volunteers and carers in our sights. This is also the reason why we are ensuring that, in the coming years, pensioners, but especially those with a slightly lower income, are on average improving, and that the cabinet wants to make arrangements with municipalities on support for carers, such as retirement and day care, for which much attention is paid in the government agreement. In the case of volunteers, the maximum unpaid voluntary allowance is also extended. And that doesn't go into the future, so that doesn't apply retroactively to Gerrit Zalm. Finally, on the issue of wage increases, which was also raised yesterday in the debate, I would like to mention that, through the reference model, wages in the public sector follow wages in the market. The zero line no longer exists. It has already been abolished and we are going to abolish it; it is not going to return now. So through the reference model we follow the market. This also means that the frameworks are being increased with wage and price developments. So we are not cutting wages either. In addition, we have, of course, specific measures in the agreement on teacher salaries in primary education. In the meantime, a Defence Cao has also been closed. Finally, the government agreement devotes an entire paragraph to tackling problematic debt. In addition, if I may summarize it so simply, we want to distinguish between the poor and the poor. We know that the vast majority of people with problematic debts did not get into it because they were consciously tweaking all kinds of systems, but that they came into it because of a multitude of circumstances. We are very motivated with this cabinet to carry out all the plans contained in the government agreement on this issue, and indeed the Secretary of State and the Minister for Social Affairs will continue to do so so so that we in this country can significantly alleviate the situation with problematic debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u206	I have two comments to make. First of all, I hear the Prime Minister say that he is not about how pension funds work, but the rules are, of course, drawn up by the Cabinet. Fortunately, he also mentioned the name of colleague Van Rooijen. I'm sure he'll come back to that. That is why we have tabled a legislative proposal. But it is not true what the Prime Minister says: if the rules were different, pension funds would be able to index. My other point is about purchasing power. When the crisis started, we all joined in. I said this to the Prime Minister in the previous debate. Now that things are getting better, everyone should take the same advantage. This is still not the case for the elderly. Last time, Mr Rutte said to me: I am listening very carefully to this and we will see how it goes in the negotiations. I may conclude, therefore, that it has not yet been possible in the negotiations to distribute it evenly and fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u207	88% of elderly households improve their purchasing power with this cabinet. 88%. They benefit from the lower tax rates and the higher general tax discount. Specifically for the elderly, the cabinet raises the elderly discount by €160 and the hard income limit is dropped, which means that a retired person who receives a small compensation for, for example, manning a polling station does not suddenly lose €1,200 in the elderly discount. Single elderly people and couples without or with a small supplementary pension are improving. That's what the Nibud shows. I would like to point out that 88% and therefore think that we are doing well in this respect. You can also see that pensioners will eventually improve on average €130 a year, and thus improve more than €500 throughout the cabinet period. So, after all the measures, with all the pluses and minuses, they go forward on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u208	That is therefore a political choice. We would have made a different political choice. The Prime Minister admits that a lot of people are far from getting anything better for the elderly, some of them, but that something is far less than what applies to the workers. When you see that over the past few years, I understand that more and more elderly people are getting angry. This cabinet is an anti-elderly cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u209	At the point of the one-earner...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u210	By the way, that's not true. Anyway, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u211	I figured you didn't say anything, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u212	Yeah, sorry. I was completely bewildered by Mr Van der Staaij. But I still have to respond to Mr Krol: it is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u213	I have another point: the one-earner. The Prime Minister has already indicated that purchasing power is looking good. That's what I said yesterday. I agree. I appreciate that. But I asked for attention to be paid to another point, namely that the gap in the tax burden between the earners and the two earners is not seriously narrowed, while it was also a call from the Lower House and a motion was tabled in the First Chamber to reduce the huge difference in the tax burden. Does the Prime Minister see that point? And is he willing to see if anything can be done about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u214	Yeah, I see that. I also think that we should continue to look together for methods to do so. At the same time, however, the transferability of the tax rebate is reduced step by step. What you see, despite that fact, is that in this period groups appear to be neutral, very similar and that the sole earner with a modal income is the most advanced. Let me give you one example. The increased working discount, reduced tax rates, increased family allowances and the subsequent reduction of the child-related budget mean that a single earner with children is making real progress. That family will pay almost €1,500 less tax in 2021. They receive €300 more child benefit and €1,400 more child-related budget. These are, of course, very substantial amounts, but Mr Van der Staaij is right: if you look at the whole thing, the cabinet manages to come out with a very family-friendly policy in the end fairly neutral if you put the different groups, i.e. one- and two-earners, side by side. This is not a structural reduction of the gap. It is not getting any bigger either, because some of the underlying measures go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u215	We agree on the facts. The gap is not getting seriously bigger, but it is not getting smaller. The single earner who earns €40,000 still has to pay €700 per month more in tax than the neighbors, who put this €40,000 together in the family wallet. That's the point. I do not think that we are getting any further in this debate one-two-three, but at least I should be prepared to think about it further. I therefore propose that we continue the discussion on this subject in the Tax Plan and in the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u216	Speaking of inequality, I read today that the Netherlands has fallen internationally on the rankings when it comes to the position of men and women and the equality between them. I know that in this coalition emancipation, and in particular the relationship between men and women, is an important spearhead. I think it is important to get a proper inventory of what we can expect from this cabinet over the next four years for the OCW Minister's budget handling. 'Cause it was news that scared me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u217	Yes. That's what we're gonna do, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u218	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u219	And with this cabinet, the VVD has not contributed to narrowing that gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u220	Not that I think we're gonna get out at this point, but I want to talk about purchasing power. The Prime Minister is talking about fair tales. It would also be nice to say that there are huge differences. Percents are nice, but 2% more of about nothing remains about nothing. And 2% more of two tons is a lot of money. We also see that in the figures of the Nibud. The people with the lowest incomes may be improving in percentage terms, but that is hardly anything in euros. For a single parent in the assistance it is €15, while two earners with two children earning two tons, making €473 per month. It's nice and very important that everyone gets better, but it's also the choice of this cabinet that the one with the thickest wallet gets better, while the people who need it the most and who have been taken the hardest in recent years have to do it with a few dimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u221	It is something of the last two years not to look at percentages anymore but at absolute incomes. That's okay, but I think it's a crazy way, because then you're actually there for everyone to have the same income. Then you can put up such a reasoning. Then you can say: crazy, everyone has the same income but that gentleman is net better at it than that gentleman. But of course we have limited income differences in the Netherlands. Together with Sweden, we are more or less among the countries with the most limited income disparities. Although the VVD has been in government forever, income differences are very limited. That is the way you should look at it, I say to Mr Roemer: as a percentage of income. If you're gonna look at it in absolute numbers, yeah, I'll have another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u222	I do this for a reason, because apparently I come more often in the ordinary, normal streets of the Netherlands than this Prime Minister. I see how many people there have had terrible difficulty in paying their care costs in recent years, how many people have actually come into debt...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u223	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u224	...how many people at the end of their paychecks are left for a month and how many children grow up in poverty. That's why I'm actually looking at what actually comes with those people in the wallet. I would like to give everyone a reasonable higher income, because salaries have been left behind in recent years. That is fine, but the group for whom it is most needed is forgotten and has to do it with a few dimes. I really blame this cabinet for that. This does not solve the problems, despite a few fine paragraphs on debt management and on the approach to poverty. If, in fact, it is only an increase in purchasing power of at most a few dimes a month, then we will not solve these problems, when there is maximum money available, for example in the case of dividends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u225	I think we need to separate those two discussions. On the one hand, I maintain that in the last two years I have seen the movement in the left-wing circle going from percentages to absolute amounts, as long as you don't make a plea to give everyone the same salary. I'm marking that now, because we may not agree on that. Mr Roemer's second point is very relevant. There are people in the Netherlands who have a piece of a month left at the end of their salary. I recognize that. And Mr. Roemer, I also speak to the people who are going through that. You speak to them, I speak to them, we speak to them all. Let's not beat each other around the bush.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u226	I'm the only one who's gonna do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u227	That's what this cabinet does. We have done a lot with it in the previous cabinet, with the Labour Party and the VVD. I think that this cabinet is taking some very substantial steps forward. First of all, the most important thing you can do for people with these kinds of financial problems is to get them to work from a benefit. We don't want 20,000 extra sheltered jobs in the Netherlands for nothing to actually give people the chance to get into work. After all, this offers so much more than an income, for example social contacts. Secondly, there is the problem of debt. Mrs Van Ark will look into this together with the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Koolmees, as Secretary of State. This will be an important subject for this cabinet in the coming years. You can see that people with benefits are also improving because of the burden relief. They improve on average €90 per year. So they are not going backwards. They also receive money. In addition, the Cabinet takes all kinds of secondary measures to ensure that people are best supported in difficult circumstances, for example in the care sector. That is also of fundamental importance. Finally. We are still going to talk about care, but fortunately in the Netherlands, rising health care contributions are largely compensated by rising healthcare payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u228	They're fine words, but people don't buy anything for that. Let me remind the Prime Minister that there are a lot of working people in the group of people living below the poverty line. They are not coming out with this policy, or they are barely coming out with it. They advance on an annual basis €90 while they have nothing to do with anything. Then you're not gonna make it. In the example I just gave, two earners who make two tons together, advance €473 per month. The proportions are completely crooked. The money is coming up against the cliffs and we can give foreign investors 1.4 billion, but we can only give the people who now have to grow up below the poverty line a few dimes. Is this the cabinet? Does this cabinet want to be a cabinet for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u229	Again, one of the reasons you're trying to keep it attractive for companies to operate here is the jobs for the people Mr Roemer is talking about. I fully agree with Emile Roemer that it is essential that we support people in this situation as best we can. But then I'll say the best improvement is that you come to work from a benefit. Growth in employment is therefore extremely important in the coming years. I am glad that unemployment in the Netherlands has fallen so much and that youth unemployment and unemployment among immigrants in the Netherlands has fallen so much. That's good news in itself. I agree with him that we really don't have to take each other's weight in that. I'm as concerned about that as he is. If someone gets into trouble without his fault and doesn't know how to get out, he doesn't see a light at the end of the tunnel and it's only dark, then we're supposed to be there as a government as a shield for the weak. I believe that this is reflected in the coalition agreement in all possible ways, for example in dealing with problematic debt. I can tell you that we have discussed this very extensively. All four parties are highly motivated to address this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u230	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u231	It's really the other way around. One more comment on the dividends: they do not provide jobs. We have already heard that, so don't come up with that argument anymore. Then the other. Of the people below the poverty line, there are a lot of working people. They hardly deserve a decent sandwich. They're going from flex lane to flex lane. In fact, young people with disabilities would like to, but they can't. They are reduced on their Wajong benefit: from 75% to 70%. People with disabilities who go to work according to their ability and perform according to their ability, let them work below the minimum wage. This is what this cabinet does. This is what the Cabinet does to people who try to make something of their lives. They're not gonna get a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u232	I assume that Mr Roemer is talking about the fact that we want to replace the pay dispensation scheme in the Participation Act with a wage supplement for employees. I think that's what he's referring to. That has a meaning. We're doing that to create 20,000 extra shelters. We do this in order to encourage people to work and actually work more. We will have a detailed discussion with the municipalities in the near future to ensure that this supplement is properly implemented. So that conversation is about to take place. This was also in the previous coalition agreement. This is not new in itself. We're making this move because we can make sure that people get out of benefits in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u233	One of the most fundamental things in a civilization is that we use the legal minimum wage. This cabinet abolishes this and allows people to work under the statutory minimum wage, not to mention people with disabilities who want to perform according to their ability. Nice cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u234	The Prime Minister mentioned the distribution of purchasing power in this country. He said everyone's getting better in his eyes. For example, people with benefits are improving €90 per year. That's $8 a month. I think that's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u235	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u236	... if you see that we're nailing 5 billion and that the people who really have the least, they're getting a little less than €8 a month. I don't think that's necessarily something to be very proud of. We just had a very solid debate. That's when we almost went on each other's fists. Now I hope for the outstretched hand the cabinet has been talking about all along. Do you think we could get together? We see in the purchasing power figures that there are 400,000 people who are not making any progress. Would we agree that if there are any windfalls for this cabinet in the coming years, we will help this group as a matter of priority and ensure that these people will also benefit from progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u237	That is a very fundamental question and an outstretched hand. I appreciate that hand and also the question of principle. The policy of the previous cabinet and also of this cabinet is to ensure that work is attractive. This means that the first thing to do is to reduce the burden on the workers. Then you make sure that the benefit recipients also improve on it. So we're not gonna cut the benefits. Those people are getting better. I understand what Mr Klaver is asking for here, but I cannot give him that commitment of principle right now. I can say the following to him. Let me say it very precisely, because it shouldn't be 1-0 with an outstretched hand. Let's see if we can get to fifty-fifty. I think we can come to the conclusion here that he and I, GroenLinks and other parties, as well as this cabinet, are very concerned about people who are in a difficult position, especially if they are people who have come out of guilt or unintended clumsyness in, for example, problematic debts or in other circumstances. If there is anything to divide up, let us have a good discussion with Mr Klaver and others in this Chamber over the next few years on how we do it properly. But I would like to maintain the underlying choice of principle, namely that this cabinet wants to continue on the line of the previous cabinet. We want to ensure that work is attractive, but that should not be at the expense of people with benefits. I still see the Minister of Social Affairs kicking ass, so I haven't lost him yet. I'll keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u238	I can reassure you: the whole time you're talking, he nods yes. In itself, you have made a good choice there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u239	Oh, thank God. I actually need a good rearview mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u240	The principle stated by Mr Rutte here is that workers in particular need to improve on it. I would like to add a principle to that. It is precisely people who, as Mr Rutte says, have fallen into a benefit situation beyond their control. It is not enough to say that we are going to ensure that they do not deteriorate further. No, I would like to make sure that they actually get a little more to spend and that life becomes a little easier for them. Then I look specifically at people in the Wajong, for example. They're people with disabilities at work. They are beyond their debt to be unable to earn a full income. Sometimes they can't earn anything at all. I understand the principle that workers need to make progress. I embrace that, too. But I also hope that the Prime Minister will then be prepared to say: for those who cannot do anything about it, we are going to do a little more than just say that they are not going backwards. No, they actually need to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u241	We're already doing the last one. Then we'd be in agreement. But I think Mr Klaver means more. So let's be very specific. Also with this cabinet, already, you can see that people with benefits are improving. Mr Klaver is absolutely right that €90 is divided by €12.8 per month. Of course, that's not fat. I understand that, too. But let's see if we can make it very practical. We are going to work out the whole approach over the next few years, and I have to say it exactly right from the conversion of the wage dispensation to the wage supplement for employees. That's the whole point of: how do you get people to work and make maximum use of that instrument? We're gonna do that in close consultation with the Chamber. I am listening very carefully to what you have to say, namely that it is very important that this is done properly. You will understand that we think it is very important, and you, I think, too, that people are ultimately encouraged to go to work or to work more. The second point is the elaboration of the whole problematic debt approach. We are going to do so in consultation with you, because I think we agree on this. Only a very small part of that group is made up of crackers. Most of the group did not get into trouble by conscious actions, but by clumsyness or by being tempted at the wrong time. How can we deal with this in a decent way, without letting it happen again and again? Because we will also agree that people will eventually have to stand on their own feet and that permanent support will be needed for them to get out. That is also important for their own dignity. We need to find each other on these different points. I have heard that Mr Klaver has said that if there is anything extra to distribute in the future, we must also keep a sharp eye on the people who are the weakest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u242	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u243	I am glad that Mr Rutte says that he is talking to the Chamber about the points raised in the coalition agreement. I am extremely critical of the pay dispensation, but also on this subject I hear the space to at least discuss it with the Chamber and to look at alternatives. I'm focusing very specifically on those 400,000 people who aren't making any progress right now. We really need to treat that group as a priority. I'll tell you why. Workers, too, all have someone in their environment who is not making any progress. They see that the economy is growing, but they also see that this person is not improving. I think this is an important reason why people feel that the government isn't always there for them. So if we're talking about restoring confidence, we need to look at that 400,000-dollar group. I see the Prime Minister nodding. If he can say that they'll look extra at that group of 400,000 people who aren't getting any better now if there's extra money to distribute, I'm looking forward to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u244	Quite precisely, because in the case of outstretched hands, I don't want to find out afterwards that we misunderstood each other. I'm not gonna promise that there's gonna be exactly that going to Mr. X or Mrs. Y when there's gonna be windfalls in the future. We hope so, of course. I understand Mr Klaver as follows. He says there's a group left behind now. Moreover, there is also a group with high incomes and high pensions which, because of the pension indexing, is not improving. I can't imagine Mr Klaver suddenly wanting to benefit that group. I'd be surprised. But it's true that there's also a group that's more at the bottom and it's heavy. We shall look into this with particular attention. That's what we're gonna do in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u245	The cabinet wants to cut half a billion dollars by making people work at welfare level rather than at minimum wage level. The Prime Minister says that this was already in the previous coalition agreement. That's right. After that, a social agreement was reached in 2013. That's my signature and the Prime Minister's signature. This meant that people were going to earn the minimum wage and start to build up their pensions. Ordinary, normal Dutch people who went to work and had the bad luck of a labor restriction, went to earn a normal, normal salary. It is a political choice to depart from it now. There is no financial need during this period. There is no need for content, because employers managed to convince them to hire people. The question needs to be made more precise: is the Prime Minister prepared to abandon this instrument as an instrument that Dijkhoff asked yesterday at the same time that we ensure that we take care of employers and avoid them financially? Then we can offer people the minimum of what we have agreed in this society as a reward for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u246	I think it's more complicated than that. It concerns the system of pay dispensation in relation to supplementing wages. For example, you can already see that pay dispensation in the Wajong. That's where it's already being handled and used. It is true that in the previous coalition agreement, that of Mr Asscher and myself, we wanted a broader application of that arrangement. This has been revised in the social agreement. I think it depends very much on how you shape this. The advantage of this is twofold. First of all, this creates space for 20,000 extra sheltered workplaces. That's advantage one. Advantage two is that you can pinpoint more precisely how you can stimulate people to work and to work more. But I also understand what Mr Asscher is saying. The municipalities will have a crucial and important role to play in the development of this whole. There are a number of aspects involved. What about working at the social minimum? What about working on the statutory minimum wage? How does that build up? We will, of course, keep this part of the debate in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u247	This is not a question of design, technique and a conversation with municipalities. That's really not true. I also think it's false to say that it creates space for sheltered workplaces. You're just as good at creating it by other means. You can, for example, reduce the dividend tax by 500 million less. After all, it's arbitrary. You'll have that space, too. So I don't think it's fair to say to a disabled person that he's gonna earn significantly less, that he's gonna go to welfare level, because that's what someone else needs. That's a false argument. On the substance, it is also a question of civilisation, of political choice. A VVD guy would say work should pay off. People go to an ordinary business, just go to work and do just as much as they do. The employer is compensated and they go home with minimum wage. That must be the choice. I challenge the Prime Minister to hold on to that choice. I always want to talk about design. This choice is an improvement in those people's lives, because they belong to it. It wasn't like that for them for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u248	This coalition is looking at these developments in the light of a much wider range of measures, including investment in the services of municipalities, so that they can, for example, offer extra sheltered work to people with disabilities. So you need to place it in a broader context, namely that we think it is important to encourage people more to get to work and get to work. At the same time, I understand very well what Mr Asscher is saying: beware that you do not pay people below the wml for a long time. I understand that, too. We need to learn from how we're doing that in the Wajong right now. But also very precise, because with outstretched hands we have to understand each other. If he told me to delete that measure now, I wouldn't do that. If he asks me to consider how we can do this in a socially decent way, bearing in mind what Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver have just said, then my answer is absolutely yes. In the development we come to talk about it, and I have listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u249	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u250	You cannot say to someone who works and goes home with a welfare allowance or with the minimum wage: you have to see it in the wider context. He's got to run his errands. So that is a very important point. I can taste the Prime Minister's willingness, all ifs and buts. I understand very well that he is not deleting that measure at once. He has the willingness to consider maintaining the minimum social standard as an alternative to his proposal. After all, he's done it before. I predict that this will also be a very important point in the other assignment of the Minister for Social Affairs. On that basis, I'd like to enter into this conversation. I am not asking him to delete the measure now, but I would say that it is more than just technology for me and for many. Social minimum is social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u251	I understand that, and I think that is very important, but I think there is still a difference of opinion. This will then have to be discussed further later. When people are on their way to more full employment, I and the cabinet do not think it is in advance wrong to do it temporarily under the wml. I understand that Mr Asscher makes a more fundamental choice and says: that should never happen. I believe that this should be possible on the road to more full employment. That is perhaps a more substantive and fundamental difference of opinion. In practice, we can try to get away from each other by seeing how we are going to shape this measure, how we are going to do it with the municipalities and also how this relates to the 20,000 sheltered workplaces. All that still has to be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u252	I have another technical question. It is first pay dispensation and then wage subsidy. This temporaryity is not so acute in the coalition agreement; you are talking about temporaryity. Most of the time, people don't lose their disability. Now you say a few times that they are temporarily below minimum wage, but how temporary is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u253	Of course, you want to have sheltered workplaces on one side and on the other you want to encourage people to go to work and work more. In doing so, you try to shape the scheme in such a way that different levels are taken into account. There are several reasons why people cannot work: they can be mentally or physically, but also have all kinds of causes; they can have a great distance from the labour market for very different reasons. If we rebuild this scheme, it will ultimately aim to encourage people to get to work and get to work more. I hear very well what Mr Asscher says about what he thinks is undesirable in terms of the wml and the social minimum. I'm not crossing that bridge right now. He understands. But I do listen to him very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u254	Mr Asscher, you have just said: my final remark. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u255	My sincere apologies, but something new is happening in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u256	You can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u257	Maybe it's not in this room, but it's very important for a group of people out there. It's a new element. The Prime Minister does justice to my point and says he understands that it is principled, but he only wants it temporarily and says there is a difference of opinion there. I have read the coalition agreement as a structural cut of half a billion by replacing the labour cost subsidy instrument with wage dispensation. You don't see that temporality. So it is a gain in the debate that the Prime Minister says: I think it is justified for a time. Maybe we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u258	No, that's a misunderstanding. By temporaryity, I mean you have to make an arrangement. Every human being is different, even in these circumstances. I myself have seen so many examples in which people with disabilities were finally able to get back to work with an employer. All this can happen, so also in people who are long-term dependent on the safety net that exists. We are going to shape it now, and I note that the system as it is today does not always work as well. Mr Asscher knows that too. The question is how to shape it so that you can serve as many people as possible with it. If we have to make the basic choice that it should always be at the level of the wml, then I say: I am not going over that bridge now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u259	You are now pretending that there can be some sort of army of Lazarus that has suddenly been healed under the influence of this beautiful cabinet and therefore deserves the minimum wage. No, it doesn't work that way. People have this handicap and just want to participate and therefore deserve the social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u260	I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he realizes that his remarks that everyone is getting something out of them are not coming from many people who are watching this debate at home on television, that those people are thinking: who is actually getting something better, what is Mr Rutte talking about? People who have seen in recent years that their rents have been increased, that their own risk has been increased, that their health insurance has been increased, that their charges have gone up, and often also taxes, including municipal authorities. Mr Rutte now says that they all get one percent per year, but people don't understand that at all. I do not like to read emails for this all the time, but I would like to read from emails from two people who looked at this debate and said: do Mr Rutte know what is going on? A mother of a family, a Wajanger with five children, has to go to the food bank and has €20; she had to go to the hospital for pneumonia and could not pay her own risk. A 88-year-old gentleman from Zeeland says: Mr Wilders, I am currently cashing in my funeral policy to pay for my domestic help. This is to say that the reality of many people is at home, that Mr Rutte has asked a great deal of them in recent years, has cut a lot, has increased a lot of taxes; they say: what is he talking about, a little bit more, when are we going to get that and how much is that? In my first term, I used the metaphor that you live on a planet. But do you understand that a lot of people at home don't understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u261	I think a lot of people at home will think of "seeing first, then believing," although that is usually reversed in a confessional circle. I can very well imagine that's what they'll think. And that makes sense, too. In recent years, we have come out of the crisis and have had to make great sacrifices with each other. Now, fortunately, there is economic space to relieve burdens, no matter what we do in the years to come. I understand very well that people who are watching this debate think: they all know how to tell, those men and women there in The Hague, but when am I going to notice it and what does that mean to me? I understand that question very well. The two examples you mention are, of course, dramatic; it is terrible what you describe in them. The fact is that we come out of one of the worst post-war recessions, and fortunately we come out strong, creating this space. I would like to make one more point of substance. I just outlined what this coalition's planned policy in the coming years is the improvement in purchasing power per year and how it is structured. This, of course, is not linked to the increase in wages that people are going through. So in those figures are packed the increased care premium, the freezing of one's own risk and the higher VAT. That's all there, and then these numbers come out. Apart from that, people who work, about 8 to 9 million people in the Netherlands, will in most cases get a wage increase. That's what's on top of that. Once again, back to my beginning, Mr Wilders is right; so I also think about it: first see, then believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u262	Yeah, but you don't have to sell your policy to have home care, and I don't have to. There are people who have it much harder and if they don't believe it, they have a very big problem. The problem is, people don't believe you anymore. Do you also realize that they say: yes, this Mark Rutte has promised us so much and in the meantime he has only taken money? Do you also realize that people think: yes, there is more than one billion extra to development aid? I do not want to repeat the whole debate on dividend taxation, but there is also money going into matters such as Africa, asylum seekers and dividend taxation. People are wondering, why doesn't that money go to us? I'll come back to the e-mail I just read from the lady in the hospital, who had lung disease, who couldn't afford the drugs anymore. She also wrote: there was an asylum seeker next to me and he got it for nothing; he just came into the country and he was in the same pharmacy in the hospital and he could take the medicine without any risk. That's unfair, isn't it? Isn't that just discrimination against the Dutchman who's always been here, who's built a life here and raised this country and who can't take those drugs from the hospital for her lung disease while the asylum seeker who's just here gets it for free? I can't explain that. How do you explain that to the lady?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u263	I'll peel it off. The examples mentioned by Mr Wilders are terrible. Apart from the asylum seeker, the examples of what the two people are experiencing are, of course, terrible. We do not have to shout at each other about this; that is clear. First, back to development aid. Development cooperation is necessary if, for example, we are to be able to deal with the flow of asylum seekers to Europe as properly as possible in the coming years. And most of all, I'm talking about economic migrants. How can we keep them in the region as much as possible over the next few years? Then you have to take away the root causes of those movements. Then, of course, you keep the asylum seekers who really run from war and violence. I shall come back later to discuss what special policy we are pursuing. We're not an island. In removing the root causes of economic migration, our military but also our development cooperation contribution in the world is crucial. Two: the lady who is unable to pay for her own risk probably also has a number of other problems. But we should get in touch with her. People with very low incomes will of course be compensated for their own risk in the health care allowance. It is likely that it has received this care allowance, but it also has very different financial problems. We cannot see exactly that now, then we should continue to talk to her. Probably she had to spend that care allowance on other things, which means she can't finance her own risk right now. That's terrible. We do not know what it is, but it is conceivable that there are problematic debts. That is one of the reasons why this cabinet is working so hard to control the problematic debt, especially for those who can do little about it. Anyway, this is a little bit of a peeling-off in response to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u264	I do not mention this example in order to discuss immigration policy, because perhaps we will do so in a moment. The problem is that people don't get it. You've worked here and you've lived here, and if you've become sick and you're unlucky enough to be old and have a small pension or you're disabled or you're in the Wajong, you can be born here and always live here if you're going to a hospital and you don't pay for your medicine and someone else will get it. And if it was just the drugs right now... but people get free physical therapy, get free insurance, I know for free whatever help they need. And that is unjust. So, apart from the discussion on development aid, I mentioned it myself, I admit it, how do you explain to all those Dutch people who are in major financial difficulties, who, among other things, are often in debt because of your policy in recent years, that people who come new to the Netherlands get it all for free, can take it with them, get the rents, still get the social housing priority and do not need to be insured for dental costs or for physical therapy? Those Dutch just have to. That's just unfair. Why don't you just say that you think that's unfair and that we're gonna do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u265	I get the big part of those feelings very well. That is also one of the reasons why this cabinet is very motivated, as I have just said, to curb the flow of economic migrants to Europe, to create more opportunities for the reception of genuine asylum seekers in the region. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet is also taking measures to get people who come here and really flee war and violence, who are asylum seekers and are entitled to asylum status, productive in society as soon as possible, by learning the language, getting started and being able to stand on their own feet and not have to use those social services. We have, of course, already been able to end the priority arrangement in the social housing sector under the previous cabinet, fortunately and wisely. For example, in the coalition agreement, we do not say that someone gets this benefit. No, we're gonna organize the facilities, but we're not just gonna pay any more benefits. That too is going to change. There too, we are taking all kinds of measures, because I can understand those feelings. But I'll say we don't live on an island. If people really run from terrible circumstances, I'm proud of it... And I would also like to explain to the lady who is in trouble that we both have to do. We need to ensure that she gets the care allowance so that she can pay the risk, by addressing the debt problem properly. But we also live in a country, within borders, we cannot accommodate everyone here, in which we are able to help people who are really on the run.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u266	Finalizing, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u267	Well, rounding it up? I would like to finish, but it is a very crucial point. Look, this cabinet... I didn't do that, the PVV didn't do that, the lady who was in that hospital at the pharmacy didn't do that. This cabinet led by Mr Rutte has allowed 150,000 asylum seekers to enter the period Rutte II. If we see the prognosis for the next four years, there will be another 100,000. That is a quarter of a million people, and I am not even talking about the factor 4 of Mr Zijlstra, which you should actually add to that for the people who come to the Netherlands afterwards. One person costs in the first year, as we learned from former Secretary of State Dijkhoff, €36.000. So we're talking about hundreds of millions, we're talking about over a billion. That's what you brought in. Those weren't all people with refugee status. They're just people coming in because of our open borders and because we're making it attractive to them here. That money, the billions, the quarter million people you let in, I would have preferred to spend on the Dutch, so that they could get their medicine, so that they could get their homes and so that they would not get one percent but many percent. You could have made that choice, but you didn't make it, and people know it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u268	For the viewer at home it is relevant to outline what is happening here. It is said here: we have people in trouble in the Netherlands, and we cannot help them because we also provide shelter for people who are fleeing. That's just not true. We both have to do it, and we can do it both ways. Fortunately, we have that money; we can solve that with each other. So on the one hand, I have just outlined this in the debate with Mr Asscher, with Mr Klaver and with Mr Roemer.................................................................................................................................................................................. When it comes to problematic debt, to people with disabilities who want to get to work, and at all to make people move forward through relief, this cabinet is going to do a lot. It's possible. We also have another issue, the issue of migration. I shall be speaking about this in more detail in a moment, and that is what this cabinet is going to do very much about. For example, ensure that people are economically relevant here as soon as possible, can stand on their own feet, also for their pride, and learn the language if they are allowed to stay here. Two, economic migrants back much faster. Three, make agreements, including with other countries in the world, to see what is possible, provided that they are safe third countries to enable reception in the region. We're gonna do all these things, and you're gonna have to do both. I'd like to say that to the viewer at home. Those two are now facing each other: if you do one thing, you can't do the other. We both have to do so, and it is precisely in order to control this flow of refugees that it is so important that we do so internationally. We've succeeded. Look at the number of Syrian refugees in 2015 and how things are now. This was achieved by taking difficult measures there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u269	My point was that I would have preferred to give that money to the people here. Of course, people in Syria fleeing that country must have a safe haven for good reasons. The Arab countries in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia, and you name it, are a hundred times richer than we are and hardly take up refugees. Let people find a safe haven there. I wish we had given those hundreds of millions, those billions to the people here. So that's choosing; politics is choosing. You can say: friends, if you are not safe in Syria, nearby are other, very rich Arab countries and you must go for shelter, not here. We take care of our own people. We are ensuring that we give our own people sufficient money, decent health insurance, not a risk of our own, which must be our priority. You are not the Prime Minister of Syria or of Africa, but of the Netherlands. Choose the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u270	That is interesting, because here Mr Wilders and I agree more than he thinks. Why, in 2016, when we were President of the European Union, did Mr Dijkhoff talk about this yesterday in his contribution to the presidency, when he made those agreements with Turkey? It is precisely to ensure that Syrian refugees can be received in Turkey. That is exactly what Mr Wilders is saying here 'plädoyert', the Germans say in good French, but he is against it, because he said: yes, that is not allowed, because then you make agreements with Turkey. Then it's gonna end sometime. So it's either not allowed or it's allowed. He'll have to make a choice sometime. Now they have to go back to Saudi Arabia. I also understand that he has a point that it's crazy that not all countries there... No, I don't need a suspension myself, but if you want a suspension, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u271	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u272	I get a note here, for the viewers at home: "Do you need a short suspension or lunch break?" I love it all, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u273	I thought, "This is classified." But I'm not writing any more notes from now on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u274	Yes, but I have to make everything public, all my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u275	It stays between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u276	I'm already in the new stand! But, Chairman, what's the plan? Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u277	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u278	We're gonna finish it all, aren't we, for a short break?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u279	I'd like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u280	How about I take care of the labour market, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u281	Actually, that's what I was gonna suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u282	And then I have some smaller, also important but in the number of questions that are asked is more limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u283	I want to ask about VAT, Mr. Chairman. Is that subject coming back? Then I'll just wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u284	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u285	Then you will have the floor, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u286	The cabinet therefore opts for an increase in the low VAT rate. We see, also in the figures of the Nibud, that this is very different in households. It is precisely the lower incomes that have lost a greater percentage to daily groceries, such as fruit and vegetables. My question is why the choice was made to increase VAT, at a time of abundance in which a lot of money is available. Then why increase VAT?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u287	This coalition has wanted to make a choice where there is room for net relief, which will increase the burden relief even further. In doing so, we want to achieve a few goals, first of all the reduction of the burden. Secondly, we want to create a system in which tax collection is simplified by increasing towards a system with a basic rate and a top rate, both of which are at a level that makes it clear that the burden has actually fallen. Thirdly, there is a shift from taxation on labour to taxation on consumption. I thought the latter came directly from Mr Klaver's programme. I expected him here as a big fan!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u288	I thought Mr Rutte had gotten to know me better in recent months. I really think it's fantastic how Mr Rutte turns out to be a man who talks about consumption. But if I were to talk about that, I wouldn't talk about fewer visits to museums, less fruit and vegetables or less often going to a campsite or to the bikemaker or shoemaker. We have often had this debate with each other. It affects people's purchasing power. In the second term, I will put forward a proposal on this, because I think it would be better if you did not abolish the dividend tax and put this in the way of not increasing VAT. Has the cabinet also looked at the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises? I hear fine words about the large business and the multinationals, but 70% of employment is among small and medium-sized enterprises. Has the cabinet made an impact assessment of the impact of this VAT increase on this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u289	These kinds of tax shifts, of course, always have an impact. We've been negotiating for seven months. We have not been able to do all the impact analyses down to the details, but they are estimated. Firstly, there is the question raised by Mr Klaver: what does it do for lower and higher incomes? That is what the debate is about. There are also quite a few economists who say that it may not matter at all whether you have a high or low income when it comes to the purchasing power effects of an increase in the low VAT rate. There are also those who say with Mr Klaver that it has effects. Of course, you have to see it in conjunction. I have said it many times: if we were only to raise the low VAT rate, I would be on that side and as critical as Mr Klaver. However, this is part of a broader tax review whereby the burden under the line eventually falls by 5 billion. The figures I just outlined about the impact of the tax package on non-working people, workers and older people include the VAT measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u290	We know that VAT is not the best way to redistribute. If you have to do it to level out, VAT is not the instrument but the income taxes are. All I see is that leveling is not done by this cabinet. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to take the VAT measure. But my question was not about citizens, but about small and medium-sized enterprises. The question was whether an impact assessment of what this is going to mean for the different sectors and what it will mean in the region. I have heard the Prime Minister talk with such love about the big multinationals and how we should keep them in the Netherlands, but I would very much not like to turn a blind eye to small and medium-sized enterprises in the Netherlands. That is why I am very curious whether we have looked at the expected effects and how they can be anticipated. Has there been a look at different sectors and what it means for the country's location?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u291	The formation lasted long enough. It is not possible to give everything up to three digits behind the decimal point an impact assessment, but we have made an assessment based on the facts that are there. The facts that are there are as follows. On the one hand, small and medium-sized enterprises are indeed affected by the increase in the VAT rate. At the same time, small and medium-sized enterprises have to deal with millions and millions of Dutch people who immediately, including the VAT increase, have net more to spend on their wallets. I just outlined that this is for an average Dutchman €230. For an employee I really want to say the figure just as well, that is €300 per year. That thus amounts to €1,200 for the entire cabinet period. That includes the VAT increase. That money will eventually be spent again, including in small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, we are taking a whole range of other measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the second year of sickness law, the right of dismissal and the position ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u292	Something incredibly wonderful is happening. We have just had a discussion about the multinationals and the big foreign companies. It was said that we can't risk them leaving or that they couldn't come to the Netherlands. But now I am talking about the great risk that I believe there is for small and medium-sized enterprises, not for everyone, but for each sector. I'll ask if you've looked into that. That risk hasn't been estimated. When you talk about the importance of employment, I look first and foremost at small and medium-sized enterprises. That's where the family businesses are. That's where the people who actually run this country are. Apparently, that assessment is not available, and that is why I ask this Prime Minister if this cabinet is prepared to make an impact assessment of this VAT increase and its impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, including the differences between regions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u293	That seems to me to be something to discuss in greater depth during the debate on the Tax Plan. There is a reason why we did not do this in those details. If we were to increase VAT, point, you would of course weaken purchasing power by, what is it, 2 billion, 2.1 billion. This, of course, has a direct impact on small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u294	We're not going through with one-on-one conversations. Really wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u295	On the other hand, we are under the line, including the VAT increase, reducing the burden by 5 billion. That means people have a lot more to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u296	Now answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u297	So that assessment is not there because we do not think it is necessary. If you look at the whole thing, you can see that there's a lot more money in the wallet of working Netherlands, including the VAT increase, because it's just in the purchasing power cards. Even the higher care premium, which was mentioned yesterday, has been incorporated into the purchasing power picture. This continues to lead to this very substantial increase in income from the lower taxes, regardless of any wage increases that people get privately. This is not just what we say, but also what organisations in small and medium-sized enterprises say. They do call for attention to be paid to the regions. They have said: pay attention to certain regions in the country. It is not for nothing that we have a 900 million pot for regional policy. So we're going to look specifically at what might be needed there. But I think we should be careful not to let the consultancy agencies make a lot of money by making impact assessments. I hear applause from the SP, and rightly so, while at the same time we know what enormous additional purchasing power increases people are facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u298	Really, your last remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u299	I keep finding it amazing. I have a feeling that this Prime Minister stands out more for large business than for small and medium-sized enterprises. I'll give you an example of what he's into. For example, look at the Haagse Markt, where I was not so long ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u300	I got to open it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u301	You were allowed to open it? I hope you don't have to close it later!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u302	No! I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u303	It has been explained to me that on a tray of strawberries that costs €1 there is €0.15 margin, without any deduction of the cost. If VAT goes up, this means a 20% reduction in the margin for the people who work there on the market. Those companies are already having a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u304	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u305	That is the effect for these market buyers. That is why I ask: have you looked at the different sectors? Quite frankly, I am not satisfied that we are giving 1.4 billion to the large business because we do not want to run the risk of them running away, but say about the VAT increase: well, we think we are going to be okay. I'm asking the Prime Minister to make this impact assessment. We will discuss the details in the Tax Plan and in the Financial Reviews, especially next year, if it is actually introduced. But I just want the Prime Minister's promise that this impact assessment will be made by sector so that we can see how this works. Why do I think this is important, even from our position as a room? As a co-legislator, I want to know what the expected consequences will be if we take certain measures. I ask the Cabinet for information on this, and I hope that the Prime Minister is prepared to deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u306	If at the same time the purchasing power of the people who buy those strawberries on the Hague Market... What a fantastic place by the way, that Haagse Markt! What a fantastic project there is to involve young people, often with an ethnic background, in keeping that market clean or secure. Oh, that's wonderful. It is almost the largest uncovered market in Europe; it will soon be covered. I was proud to open that market. But now to the grocer there who sells strawberries and who gets to deal with that higher VAT. Strawberry isn't the cheapest fruit we have, unless it's in season. It's usually a slightly more expensive fruit. The people who buy the strawberries there will soon have the opportunity to buy many more strawberries, because they will advance €1,200. Mr Klaver is now asking for another expensive consultancy firm to work to get the impact measured. I say to discuss this with the Secretary of State for Finance; perhaps he is more lenient than I am. But I am not going to make the commitment now to allow consultant-Netherlands to do this kind of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u307	As soon as there are examples of strawberries and things like that, I think I should suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u308	We're all gonna get hungry!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u309	I'm sure it's because I don't express myself very well, but I don't think the Prime Minister understands the angle I'm taking. I'm not talking about people buying strawberries later. These market buyers say to me: I can't pass that on in the price; I'm not going to ask for €1.03 for that box of strawberries, my customers won't accept that. This means that it is at the expense of the margins already under pressure and the income of these market buyers. As Prime Minister, who is responsible for the whole policy, I am asking you to send information on this important measure to the Chamber. I find it significant that you don't. You spend 1.4 billion, because you say you don't want to risk large companies leaving. With the VAT increase, you run the risk that SMEs in the Netherlands will get hit. I think that's double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u310	Here is the strawberry tray index. There is always a denominator and a counter. Mr Klaver is right that if the number of strawberries to be sold remains the same and the VAT increase cannot be passed on, the vegetable farmer will of course suffer terribly. However, if the volume increases and the cost of the vegetable farmer does not increase further in terms of overhead, there will not suddenly be a second or third servant hired to stand behind the stand; these costs will probably remain the same, then the vegetable farmer will indeed notice this in a positive way because of the very heavy burden relief. That is also why organisations in this circle say to us that they can have this. But they also asked us to pay particular attention to regions in the Netherlands. Mr Klaver has a point. That is a good thing, because this cabinet is putting down a proper pot that Mrs Schouten and Mrs Ollongren manage together. Mrs Schouten is doing this primarily and Mrs Ollongren is helping to ensure that we can shape regional policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u311	The Prime Minister keeps talking about averages all the time. If I am going to walk on that market in The Hague, then I really cannot say that the Prime Minister has promised that everyone who walks there will improve €1,200. The Prime Minister knows that very well. That's what's annoying about him keeping doing that every time. A lot of people who walk there, if they are lucky in the category that improves €90 a year. So that's what you have when you're going to shift taxes from direct to indirect. People with the lowest incomes feel such a VAT increase the hardest. Most of their disposable income that they have left after the fixed expenses have been removed, they have to spend on groceries. Most of those people notice this tax increase from 6% to 9%. So these people get hit pretty hard. Tell me that honestly. Many people are walking on the market to see if they can actually get cheap fruit and vegetables there. They do not advance €1,200, but €90. That's the one you're gonna take the hardest with this VAT increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u312	I was just having a discussion, I was thinking with Mr Klaver, on this particular point. At that time, I said that opinions really differ. Of course, a VAT increase has an impact, but you should see it in the light of the reduction of charges. Of course, it is more limited at the bottom, for people with benefits than for people who work. We discussed this at length earlier today. There are also choices underneath that. But the assumption that the VAT increase would be de-levelling is not supported by everyone, sincerely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u313	I'd be happy to explain. If you have a very small income and you take down fixed expenses, you have a limited amount of disposable income. If that's very little, then the whole amount goes into groceries, vegetables, fruit, bread and milk. You'll have almost nothing left for luxury items. So it has a huge impact for the largest part of those people, because they just have to do groceries. If you have 2 tons, you only have to spend a very small amount of your disposable income on that. The impact for people with a small income is huge and especially for the group, which we were already pretty much in agreement on earlier, who at the end of their pay still have a month left, who have to cut down on everything, who have to nibble on vegetables, fruits, bread and milk. That is only going to be more expensive for those people and therefore less and less. That's why it has such a huge impact, just for that group. Then tell me quite honestly that that way you take the people with the lowest income with this measure extra hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u314	We have to be very precise. If you look at the income figures in the Netherlands, as we do, those purchasing power images, then of course you look very strongly at the minimum, at once modal, twice modal, three times modal. Mr Roemer is now talking about an income of two tonnes. The number of people who deserve that is so awfully small. That's about a chamber seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u315	It also applies to two modes. It also applies for one and a half modes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u316	But it's really different there. If you look at all the studies that have been carried out, which we have also looked at, you will see that the debate is still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u317	Finally, Mr President. A shift from direct to indirect taxation, and VAT is a shift from direct to indirect taxation, means that what you still have to spend becomes more expensive. That little thing they have to spend, they're obliged to spend on household shopping, bread, milk, you name it, which is vital for those people. All these products become 3% more expensive for those people. Those people, you take the hardest with this burden increase for the people in the lowest category. You don't compensate for that. You're not doing anything about it. You walk here a bit to shout: well, you have €1,200 there, everyone can pay it nicely. You forget more than a million people in the Netherlands. Apparently, you're not a prime minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u318	Those are all those sweeping conclusions again. That is nonsense, of course, while Mr Roemer started out well. The fact is that opinions differ on the impact of a VAT increase on very normal incomes. Of course, when you're talking about an income of two tons, how many people have such a high income? With very normal incomes, between low and middle or just above center, twice modal, according to all these studies it is similar. That's one. Secondly, it is not the case that the low-income people do not improve on the pictures. They're getting better, about 90 bucks a year. That is less than a working person, who gains €300 a year. There's a reason for that, too. We wanted everyone to rise. I just had that discussion with Mr Klaver. We want everyone to rise, but we also want to make working even more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u319	I brought family with me yesterday. It was on top of the bleachers. It was also very nice that Mr. Rutte waved at them for a moment. By the way, they have appreciated that very much. But great-grandmother Nelleke had a question. She said: I have to make a living of €150, because that's what I'm left with after the fixed charges. Do you dare her now, because she's sitting at home watching, promising straight into the camera that she won't go backwards because of that VAT increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u320	In the individual case, I can never say that. There's no way. There are people who are going backwards, about 400,000. In total, the over-over-over-most of the Dutch are making progress. But Nelleke doesn't have a high pension. If she had a large pension, I would not dare say that she is making progress, because that will have to do with a limited indexing. If she has only AOW, she is in a group that in itself will gain purchasing power over the coming years. But in her individual case, I can never guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u321	Can Mr Rutte also tell me how many of the 400,000 he calls now are older than 65?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u322	I don't have that ready here, but we could see if we can figure that out. I don't have that ready here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u323	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u324	Mr President, a question. We had such an indiscreet moment on my part when I read your note. Apologies for what? I'll never do that again. That was wrong. I am now dealing with a small rebellion behind me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u325	Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u326	...and maybe you and the people here. Yeah, that has to do with the messing belly. My proposal was to take care of the labour market before the break, but we have talked about purchasing power much longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u327	Yeah, we're not gonna talk about this. We're gonna suspend until 2:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-2.u328	Great!
