ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The war in Syria has been going on for almost seven years. We have often stood here with each other and talked about the most horrific things, such as the use of chemical weapons, barrel bombs in residential areas and surroundings and starvation as a weapon of war. Last summer, there was a report by Amnesty International describing the situation in Assad's torture prisons. About 17,000 people would have died of torture, starvation and withholding medical care. Those numbers are hard to comprehend. Today, however, an equally thorough and gruesome report, once again by Amnesty, shows that the inhumane practices under the Assad regime go even further if possible. The chills literally run over your back reading about the most horrible forms of torture that take place in the human slaughterhouse, as Amnesty calls it. Another 13 000 opponents of the Assad regime have been hanged there in recent years. It evokes memories of the most horrific practices, as we saw in the notorious prisons of Joseph Stalin, Pol Pot and Idi Amin. And all at only 4,000 kilometers from here, in our time and actually under our eyes. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to force through the Dutch seat in the UN Security Council that the international commission of inquiry should as soon as possible launch an independent investigation into the practices in Saydnaya and other torture prisons. I would also like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to raise this issue in the UN Security Council. The duo chair with the Italians offers opportunities for that, I think. I ask him, if possible, to use a Security Council resolution to promote the access of independent observers. I say that even if it was just to let Putin, and perhaps Trump, make it clear where they stand on this issue. Finally, I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to do everything in his power to ensure that those responsible for these atrocities are prosecuted. Is he prepared to continue to press through the UN Security Council for an investigation by the International Criminal Court, and in any case to continue the support he already gives to the evidence bank, as it was established at the end of last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have been reading Amnesty's report this morning and what you read in it is indeed indescribable. Saydnaya is the place that matters. It's the end of life, the end of humanity, that's what's above it. The stories of the people are indeed unprecedented. We are discussing a lot of horrible situations in the world here, but this is about night platoons, missing persons, people coming together and panels of execution. People are then thrown into mass graves in total anonymity. It is incredibly important that Mr Servaes, and therefore the Chamber, pay attention to this today. The question is, of course, how can we do as effectively as possible against these horrors in Syria? This is, in my opinion, a serious investigation report. Mr Servaes is actually asking a number of things from me. I'll tell him what I think could be the best method. Firstly, it is indeed important that Amnesty International rightly says that you get people, monitors, into those prisons. That is incredibly complicated, because until now, of course, they do not have access and are not forced to do so. I believe there are two routes for that. A first option is the UN Human Rights Council. I do not think it will be possible by this means, but I will put this at the top of the agenda again, even at the annual meeting which is about to begin. There is no doubt that the silence around the Assad regime, once there are negotiations, while every day the executions continue, means that action must be taken through the access of independent observers and researchers. The second road is indeed the UN Security Council. We have already come into contact with the Italians to see if we can reach a monitoring mission, but of course we are also looking at a number of other countries, other permanent members. This has not materialised so far in other cases where it was necessary to obtain human rights monitors due to the veto of the Russian Federation. Nevertheless, we are going to try that again. That's essential. We must convince public opinion, not only in our country but also in other countries, of the need to have this followed by a serious investigation by UN Security Council monitors. Maybe this is possible. I believe that this should be tried with different countries, because it will continue. That is also at the heart of the report. It's not a report from the past; the executions continue. That second line is therefore going through Italy, the European allies and other countries too, Mr Servaes mentioned some of them, which I agree with. You can't let this happen secretly during the night somewhere in Damascus. The third road is the ISSG, the International Syria Support Group, even though it is not working properly. You have to try all the roads. The fourth road is the attempt by the Netherlands to be held accountable by circumventing the Security Council if it fails by a veto from one of the countries. We have done this through the so-called UN Evidence Bank. I think that is the core and the Netherlands has also directly supported this. Fortunately, there are now other countries that are doing this. We are in the process of getting donors to do so. Soon there will probably be a meeting in the Netherlands to ensure that everything is recorded including these evidences from Amnesty International. This is a start to promote justice and reduce impunity, where we cannot refer to the International Criminal Court because of the veto of the Russian Federation. We are working actively along these paths. I think that is very important, because in Syria's prisons there is a nightmare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u3	I thank the Minister for his answers and his willingness to raise this issue at all levels, because it is exactly as he says. Just recently, there has been silence around Assad's regime. This is partly due to a certain degree of defeatism on the Western side because the Russians have taken the initiative. It also has to do with the fact that there are still politicians in the European debate who consider Assad to be the lesser evil; some even talk about an "uncomfortable partner." I would like the Minister to distance himself from that and to continue to break that silence. The Minister has made a number of concrete suggestions, and I believe that we should use every possible means: the Human Rights Council, the Security Council and the International Contact Group. I ask him to keep the Chamber informed of the results. Once again, a resolution that does not make it is a signal. This puts parties like Putin's Russia on the block to confess colour. Through the General Assembly of the Security Council, therefore, it has indeed succeeded in getting such a evidence bank off the ground. Maybe later it can serve for the Criminal Court or a separate Syrian tribunal. What are the possibilities for the Minister to press through the General Assembly for such a mission of independent observers if he fails to do so through these other channels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u4	In response to the comment on the qualification of the President of Syria, I would remind you that I have already said here that he is, of course, responsible for crimes against humanity and for mass murders. Because of his position as head of the Syrian state, he is partly responsible for what is happening in prisons. There can be no misunderstanding about that. There can also be no misunderstanding about the fact that the rebellion against the Assad regime started at that time because of these violations of human rights that have only been aggravated. I agree with what Mr Servaes said about the various roads. We can also try to move forward with the evidence bank via the AVVN. In fact, as long as there is no political breakthrough or agreement and there is no end to vetoing, it must have everything ready to act at the hour. So that means the sword of Damocles will stick. Of course, we try all these other roads as well. We will also try through the UNGA to deploy observers to circumvent the Security Council if necessary. In any case, we are ready to be prepared on all fronts. This means that all these evidence must already be available, so that they can be used later in any legal case or trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u5	The reports on this terrible prison have been reaching us for several years and have been confirmed this morning in that horrible Amnesty report on that horrible gulag. That's the least you can say about it. The Minister then sketches five tracks along which he tries to do something about this. The evidence bank is perhaps the most concrete track. Again, congratulations on that. There was broad support for this in this Chamber. There's one trail I'm missing, and that's the trail that might be most topical right now. These are the countries that discussed with the UN in Astana on a ceasefire and on the future of Syria. In fact, we have a very bad picture of the agreements that have been made there and to what extent they can moderate the behaviour of warring parties. Assad's prisons are an example of this, but also those of the opposition. Does the Minister have any idea whether any influence can still be exerted on the parties that have negotiated there in the presence of the UN? I am referring, of course, to Iran, Turkey and Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you for this question. It's an important point. The trilateral talks in Astana are important. A year and a half after the start of Russian military intervention, Russia thus also has a leading role to play in the political sphere. Iran's role is also gaining weight. That is quite clear. Turkey is sitting there at the table. Of course, we are not officially involved. My special representative in the field of the Syria conflict is there to make sure he keeps a good touch. It seems to me that there are two possibilities. I have a little less confidence in one than in the other, but we can try it on the basis of what Mr Ten Broeke says. He's over there. There are other special envoys and that means that this element can also be addressed there. Whether it succeeds or not, I don't know, but at least you can gradually find more support for it, even with like-minded special representatives. I think that's important. It is such an poignant report that you can also say that this may be a game changer, even though we have known for a long time that this misery is taking place. The other essential point is that we assume that negotiations will start again somewhere at the end of February under the leadership of De Mistura and on behalf of the United Nations. I think there's another point of reference for discussion. So in that sense, that's a trail that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you.
