ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome Secretary of State Dijksma. Mrs Van Veldhoven, who was second on the list, has asked to speak last, but may not be able to take part in this debate due to circumstances. So that's what we're gonna see. Partly on the basis of the group note I have read, I would point out that people may well disagree on this subject, but that the interruptions should nevertheless attempt to create some self-reflection and limitation. There's a difference of opinion in this house, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The percentage of CO in the air is now higher than in the past 650,000 years: 2014, 2015 and 2016 were always the warmest years ever. This was on Twitter today, of course, in America. Among them were a number of people who offered the person who put the tweet, money or an alternative job, because what is the case? The new American president has banned all scientists working at, say, the American Plan Office for the Environment, from making statements about climate change to the outside world. Because this scientist has put these facts on Twitter, his job may be "at risk." How different is this in the Netherlands? This is what our Prime Minister said after the Paris climate agreement: "It is a historic agreement. It is good news for the Netherlands, for Europe and for the world." The fact that the countries have agreed to limit the rise in temperature to less than 2 ̊C called our Prime Minister "a very important step." He also welcomed the fact that the treaty would allow companies to participate in the fight against the effects of global warming. He said: "The Netherlands has made itself strong for this." Our cabinet therefore rightly celebrated the success of the process that began in 1992 with the United Nations framework to combat climate change, with this treaty as its final result. Our Prime Minister also wrote very recently in all major national newspapers: "It is normal that you commit yourself and that you do not run away from problems." The Netherlands is not going to do that either. The inhabitants of the Marshall Islands have already noticed that their atolls are disappearing, that groundwater is becoming undrinkable and that agriculture is becoming increasingly impossible by salinisation step by step. In the Caribbean Netherlands, too, the population suffers from the negative effects of climate change. This brings me to my first question to the Secretary of State: what about Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin? We went to work there. The Dutch special municipalities are covered by the Treaty, but these countries are not. However, we have entered into commitments for the Kingdom. So I'd like to get an explanation about that. The fact sheet of the negative effects of climate change can now be used by all energy spokesmen, but the list is getting longer and longer. California has been struggling with severe drought for six years, Tibet is suffering from avalanches of unprecedented size and the day before yesterday Georgia was hit by a tornado far beyond the tornado season. Climate change is a disaster in slow motion. It is a real success that 197 countries have signed the Paris Climate Treaty to jointly fight this slow-motion disaster worldwide. In the meantime, 126 countries have ratified the Convention, such as Liechtenstein, Latvia and Andorra. These are just a few countries that have succeeded. Malta, which, together with the Netherlands, is under a number of sustainability lists, has also signed the Climate Treaty. I'm going back to Rutte's letter: "There's only one question for: what kind of country do we want to be?" As far as I am concerned, that is a fair question. Are we a country that is now ratifying the treaty quickly, so that we can work with the other 167 countries to combat climate change? Or is the fraction of the VVD still going to mess up today? The Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland still have to ratify. You would suspect that these countries are aware of the importance of climate goals. The Secretary of State is sure to be. We assume that the House of Representatives will also want to speed up the ratification of the Treaty today. Another question to the Secretary of State is: why did it take so long for the ratification law to reach the Lower House? I call on the government today to make haste with the proposal of law and state law, to do everything in its power to complete the ratification before the election recess, so that the climate treaty will also have the force of law for the Netherlands. I use one last quote from Rutte's letter: "Let's work together to make this country even better."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have 15 minutes to speak, but I am certainly not going to use it. As far as the SP is concerned, there is only one objective, namely that the bill should become law as soon as possible. I hope with Mrs Van Tongeren that the trial in the First Chamber can be completed quickly and fruitfully. It is also special for the Secretary of State. I read in the NRC that she considers "Paris" to be her finest hour in the period when she is in charge of Infrastructure and the Environment. That's nice to hear. I can still see it. We've almost all been there. There was a huge drive in that whole thing over there. The Secretary of State played a very good role in that. I liked to see that. At a time when the negative feelings prevail around the world, its outcome was a very positive exception. So now we have to cash in too. That is why I hope that this bill will soon become law. I saw another two yesterday from the Secretary of State about the new American President, who had made some decisions. Mrs Van Tongeren referred to this as well. The Secretary of State was not very happy with those decisions, to put it euphemistically. I have a few more questions. I suggest it just to get sharp where the Netherlands is now. Are we sending at 1.5 degrees, 2 degrees or anything in between? Do we send purely for CO reduction and thus release the choice of renewable energy technologies, so that they become secondary to the CO target? Are we going to be okay with the European Emissions Trading System? This often hangs around all our national initiatives as a kind of context. Then we talk about "leakage effects" and "waterbed effect," and that is the reason why we don't do something. It is very easy to get a pioneer's dilemma in Europe, for example: if Poland is not doing anything about its coal power stations, why should we? How did you get out of that fix? The discussion we are having on this subject is always moving between what should and cannot be done. I understand it's not easy getting through this. So how does European commitment relate to national commitment? How much more difficult or easier is it for the Netherlands to achieve the goals than for other Member States? The energy agenda has chosen the approach of the four so-called functionalities, which comes from the opinion of the Environment and Infrastructure Council. It concerns the heavier chemical industry, the lighter industry, transport and the built environment. I think that makes sense. It seems that the graphs show that by 2020 everything will come to a bit of a standstill. Actually, emissions aren't dropping for a while. Then they'll go down again, but then you'll be borrowing a little bit from the future. I wonder if we can get those lines a little more regularly towards zero. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also considers it very important that employment, affordability and necessary training, retraining and further training should be given real attention from old employment to new employment. This is very important for the SP, especially if we manage to draft a climate law here and get many groups behind it. The word "support area" is used very often, but real participation starts with the involvement of the population in the process. You do not need to inform the public about a process that has already taken place over time. I make a wink at Drenthe and Groningen, where there is a lot to do about the wind farms. In the coming years, of course, routes will have to be drawn up. Is the Secretary of State still going to do that, or is the next cabinet supposed to do that? I can imagine that this is the case, but we should not, of course, be delayed too much. This includes, for example, a route to a built environment that is gas-free by 2030. Furthermore, we must be more ambitious in terms of emission-free passenger cars by 2025. Mr Jan Vos has taken an initiative in this Chamber. Furthermore, I call extra lots of wind at sea, since the kilowatt-hour price is significantly lower than we thought one or two years ago, and ways to save energy more quickly in industry. The debate on coal and biomass plants has also often been held here. Of course, it fits perfectly with this story. I also ask what creative things the Netherlands is good at, so that we can play a leading role in this. I refer, for example, to the propagation of artificial photosynthesis. Wageningen is working on this, but in an international consortium. In that respect, you can really achieve breakthroughs. If you start the research, you don't know whether that will be the case, but you have to expect that in the coming years there will be breakthroughs here and there that can be rolled out at a level where they will contribute substantially to the reduction of CO emissions. I'm always interested in keeping the peat meadows wet. The Secretary of State knows that. The same goes for everything in the area of smart grids, at the level of your home, your neighborhood and the business site and for everything that helps to reduce losses and to better match supply and demand. I really think that's something we can do very well. I see Lombok as an example, where solar power and car batteries are connected in such a way that an entire neighborhood can benefit from it. So I also see a lot of activities at local level. An environmental law will provide the opportunity to provide space for these activities at local level. I am therefore in favour of this law and of what we can and should do with it. However, the route we have to take is not an easy one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr President, you were quite right to say at the beginning of the debate that we may differ. The great thing about the climate debate is that there is a great deal of consensus between most groups in this Chamber. I very much appreciate the contribution of the colleague of the SP. Mr Smaling proposed taking a look at photosynthesis and calling it a real example of innovation. The Secretary of State's documents state that the government should focus more on successful examples of scaling up existing technologies. I am thinking of reducing the cost of wind at sea or reducing the cost of solar energy in Germany. Does the SP think that we should invest more in innovative projects? Or should we, as the cabinet says, look up the scale and bet our resources on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u5	I think it's both. That answer is a bit boring, but now that wind at sea is getting so much cheaper, the project on the Dogger Bank is coming up as far as I'm concerned. If you can make a kind of power outlet and Denmark, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands all benefit from it, then you can really make volume. Then it's not about megawatts anymore, it's about gigawatts. Then you can also expect the price to go down further. At the same time, you can see that plants deal very inefficiently with sunlight, which only a fraction of the sun's incoming sunlight is converted into green mass. So there is still a world to be won. Plants don't do it because light is so abundant that you only need a small percentage. So both of you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful and special moment it was just over a year ago when the Paris climate agreement was concluded. Maybe it was historical, too. I think so. I remember the tension that was in the air, not only a tension over the urgency but also a tension of expectation and hope. After years of negotiations and a failed climate summit, there was finally a binding agreement between 195 countries. 195 countries agreed to limit the global temperature increase to a maximum of 2 ̊C and would prefer to reduce the risk of climate change by 1,5 ̊C. The Christian Union is pleased that the House of Representatives is finally discussing this law of approval which anchors the Paris agreement in our national legislation. We have a duty to generations after us to preserve the creation. This means that concrete steps must now be taken so that our children can reap the benefits of this later on. This also means that we must now take firm measures. And yes, they can be difficult sometimes. I want us to be able to look our grandchildren in the eye later when they ask us what we have done against climate change. We, our generation, are the last to be able to turn the tide. The Christian Union sees the ratification of the Paris climate agreement by this Chamber as an important step in the right direction. With words we can promise much, but they must be followed by deeds, if we really want to make a difference. The same applies, of course, to this climate agreement. The European Union and the Member States have jointly submitted an INDC debt instrument which is a planned national specific contribution. It includes a 40% CO reduction target by 2030. This is in line with the October 2014 European Council's commitments, which is therefore the objective of the Paris climate agreement. We know that all the planned national contributions add up to a global warming rate of 3 ̊C. That means we're a long way from here. Frankly, I am not very confident on the route that has been set out to strengthen the ambitions. In 2018, a so-called facilitating dialogue will be convened to see where tightening is needed to achieve the long-term goals. Countries will then have to submit more stringent plans only in 2020. They will be reviewed every five years. What opportunities does the Secretary of State have to speed up this process for the European Union at least and for the Member States? What countries can it work with? What opportunities does it see for strengthening the objectives? After all, we know that more is needed, not 40% CO reduction but better 55% CO reduction by 2030. The Christian Union cannot and does not want to wait until 2018 or 2020. We simply cannot afford that time. The Christian Union now wants to start taking action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u7	I welcome the warm words of the Christian Union for a decisive climate policy. I do wonder why the Christian Union itself makes retreating movements when it becomes concrete. The European Member States have agreed to spend 20% of the budget on climate-oriented action. The European Court of Auditors has recently made it clear that this agreement is not being complied with. We have tabled a motion asking the cabinet to support the commitment of European subsidies and funds for climate action. And then the Christian Union votes against, because it would have to change agriculture a little bit! Why is this happening when the Christian Union is making such a warm plea for good climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think that in that motion, which I do not have a clear eye on at the moment, there were indeed all kinds of considerations and observations made by the Animal Party on agriculture in Europe. I have to say that European agriculture, and certainly Dutch agriculture, can be the world leader in reducing the climate impression of agriculture. Dutch agriculture is the most efficient in the world. I do not know exactly what was in the motion of the Party for Animals, but I can imagine that the Party for Animals thought it was a better idea to remove some agriculture. However, I cannot imagine her saying that we want to be the frontrunner in the world. The Christian Union sees a different route than the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u9	Nice try. I have tabled the motion twice and the Christian Union voted against twice. The motion only deals with the objective observations made by the Court of Auditors. In 2014, European Member States, including the Netherlands, agreed to devote 20% of the European budget to climate-oriented action. The European Court of Auditors has found that this is not possible and that agriculture and fisheries in particular are lagging behind. The European Court of Auditors has also said that we should do this differently. The motion calls for compliance with the agreements made, without any assessment of agriculture. After all, it has been agreed to spend money on climate-oriented action, which represents at least 20% of the European budget. However, this motion is not supported by the Christian Union. I do not understand that, because Mrs Dik-Faber says here that good climate policy is important, as is the fulfilment of our climate agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u10	A good climate policy is very important for the Christian Union; let me convince everyone of that. European agriculture, especially Dutch agriculture, is the world's leader. There is no cow that is treated as animal-friendly as the Dutch cow. There is also no more environmentally friendly cow than the Dutch cow. I know that Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party may think otherwise, but it is the truth. I think it is very important that agriculture also contributes to combating climate change worldwide. Our Dutch agriculture can be the frontrunner in that and can be an example. We can export the knowledge about agriculture and the way in which we organized agriculture in the Netherlands to other countries in the world. I have an amendment (34550-XIII, No. 56) tabled in this Chamber, "Unfortunately, the coalition has not supported this in order to revive and boost the Covenant Clean and Economical Agro-sectors, so that there are innovations in the farmers' inheritance that give agriculture even more impetus to contribute to combating climate change. That's the route I want. I am still not convinced that the motion tabled by the Animal Party had no side-effects for agriculture. Agriculture, according to the Animal Party, can only contribute in one way to combating climate change: less meat production, less meat consumption and away with the stables in our country. However, that is not the agenda of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mrs Ouwehand is allowed to interrupt briefly one more time. After that, interruptions are always done in two parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u12	I'm rounding up. I note that the Christian Union does not take reports from the European Court of Auditors seriously when it comes to the climate and when it gets concrete. If we have to do something for the climate, we have promised that, for all intents and purposes, according to the Christian Union, that is all nice and nice, as long as it is not about agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u13	I note that the Christian Union is doing its stinking best to maintain its leading position with the farmers and gardeners in our country and to spread the knowledge we have in our house around the world. That is a different agenda from the agenda of the Party for Animals, which drives farmers and gardeners out of our country. However, when farmers and gardeners leave, we are far further away from home. If the Dutch production is moved abroad, then we only have a problem with the climate. Mr. Chairman. We can see that much has already been done in our own country in terms of reducing our CO emissions and that there is still a lot in the pipeline. The Netherlands is slowly getting out of the valley of its enormous backwardness in Europe. My group is convinced that if we want to limit global warming to a maximum of 2°C and genuinely striving for 1,5°C, much more really needs to be done. The Christian Union wants to make decisive work of an energy transition to fully sustainable within one generation. We want a legal framework with intermediate targets every five years for CO reduction, clean energy and energy saving. The initiative of the climate law therefore appeals particularly to us, and our group is happy to support it. We must make every effort to tighten up the European emissions trading system quickly so that the minimum price for CO2 finally reaches an effective level. If this is not possible at European level in the short term, the Netherlands itself must work with a leading group of neighbouring countries, a coalition of the willing. Waiting is not an option. I understand that the VVD is now in favour of this. Maybe we can make arrangements about this today. This is becoming all the more urgent as it becomes increasingly clear that the new President of the United States, Donald Trump, seems to be getting rid of the hopeful climate policy deployed by his predecessor Obama. The global ETS, which is the subject of the climate agreement, seems to be farther away than ever. So let us not wait and see what other countries are going to do or leave behind in the field of climate policy, but lead the way in the fight against climate change. The subject is too important and the long-term consequences are too threatening. There are also immense challenges in energy-intensive industry, transport, existing and new housing. I think that the biggest challenge in terms of heat transition may still lie in housing. In the near future, essential choices will have to be made, perhaps not primarily from The Hague, but locally, at district level and at municipal level. The Christian Union wants the Netherlands to be the leader again in the field of sustainable technologies. This is good not only for the climate, but also for our economy and for employment. I was at a meeting of the FME this week. Other MPs were there as well. The FME is ready, with all its supporters, but it is awaiting the government to set ambitious targets and put the dot on the horizon. Does this cabinet want to put together policy packages for CO reduction, so that the next coalition can decide quickly and get to work immediately? Now the cabinet has moved a decision on coal power stations to a next cabinet, but that is the most efficient measure to meet our CO targets. I assume that by the Energy Progress Act, a majority of the Chamber will declare itself in favour of swift closure, now that the cabinet has failed. In any case, it will not be up to the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u14	It will not be up to the Labour Party either, because we have tabled an amendment which, I understand, will support the Christian Union to simply shut down those power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u16	My question is about those companies. Unfortunately, did the FME - I was not asked to do so - ask for a concrete plan, for example that within 25 years all companies will have to go to zero CO emissions? Does the Christian Union have a more detailed explanation of this? I think it is an interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u17	We had a debate with a number of political parties and the FME was represented in the Chamber. Frankly, I was a little shocked by an opinion piece that was in De Telegraaf of the President of the FME. In that the emphasis was very much on "stepping the brake" and "let's go quietly." During the debate it appeared that there was much more urgency in the energy-intensive industry too to get to work quickly. I'd like to hold on to that sense of urgency. Is that enough? I have my doubts about that. I have, of course, seen, like Mr Jan Vos, that agreements have also been reached with the energy-intensive industry under the energy agreement, but now it appears that they are not being complied with so easily. I really need a tooth. The apple I brought with me at the end of that day was that they need an ambitious government, a government that is also launching customer and puts a dot on the horizon. We must set the targets and industry must deliver the technology. We should not go into technology, but business must come up with the means to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u18	My question is what we are going to do next. Do we agree that in 25 years' time all companies in the Netherlands will produce zero CO emissions? Is that, for example, on the road the Christian Union sees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u19	The Christian Union wants zero emissions in one generation. In 25 years we'll be in 2040. Then we should be able to be a long way, absolutely. I will continue my speech. The future is sustainable and decentralised, so let's stop tapping into new locations for oil and gas and bet on the energy and heat transition. I can see that municipalities are working fast. I see citizens taking matters into their hands and starting energy corporations. Let us therefore also involve local authorities in all plans. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so? There's an immense task ahead of us now, but we can do it. We owe it to our children and grandchildren. Everyone will have to participate: government, industry, business, citizens. The Christian Union will therefore also work for a further energy agreement. It will be clear that there has to be a big shovel on top. As far as we are concerned, there will be an energy commissioner who will give this clear direction. The Paris climate agreement is an agreement between 195 countries, big and small, rich and poor. The Christian Union does not just want to pay attention to what needs to be done in our own frog country in terms of CO reduction and reduction because of the consequences of global warming. My group also calls for attention to be paid to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. It also calls for attention to be paid to developing countries. 100 billion is needed to help them cope with the consequences of climate change. But we can do more. Our agricultural sector is an example to the world, I told you. It is a pity that the coalition parties did not support my amendment to the agreement on clean and economic agro-industry. With the knowledge and technology we have in the field of water management and climate-smart agriculture, we must also take responsibility for helping poorer countries. The population of these countries has often benefited only limitedly from the fossil fueled economic developments of the 20th century, but is already faced with the effects of climate change. All we have to do is turn on the TV to see the images of floods and failed harvests. General Middendorp even called combating climate change a military task. Let us, the Netherlands, be an example to the world and assume our responsibilities in our own country, European and global. In this way, this climate agreement will not only represent hope for our children and grandchildren, but for a hopeful future for all children worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. It is the greatest challenge of our generation. I can't repeat it often enough. Keeping the earth viable, for people now, in the most difficult areas of the world, who are struggling, where conditions are difficult, and for generations in the future. The good news is that there was consensus in Paris. Real consensus has been reached on the nature of the climate problem and the need to limit global warming to a maximum of 2°C. It has been said that 1.5°C is already going to cause us some serious problems. So it should be a maximum of 1.5°C. The problem is not so much that there are still people out there who can use valid arguments to deny the climate problem. Nor is the problem that there are people who are not convinced that urgent action is needed to keep the climate somewhat stable. On the basis of the facts, I'll add. Because whoever denies the facts is just done. Then it would also be a lot quieter in this room and perhaps we could do business. The Secretary of State himself is one of the people who are convinced that action is urgently needed. She said, "We have to live differently." These problems require drastic choices, and there must be a primal instinct; the will to survive and fight for our future. We need every conceivable measure to counter global warming. So no discussion about the problem analysis. I would also like to remind the Secretary of State that it was a good idea for her to organise a climate summit for children. Kids understand very well where the problem lies. "Why do we need to do something about the climate? Because I want to live long," Jilvo spoke of 9 years old. And Halbe, 11 years old, said, "If it continues like this, the North Pole will melt. Then the polar bears drown because they can't swim that long. And the Netherlands is going to be underwater." Children are very involved in the climate problem. Several climate summits have been organised for years; in the classes, in the cities, nationwide. Child-climate deals and child-climate conferences are being held. Children are constantly being asked to consider solutions to the climate problem, and that is what they want. It's always good ideas, actually. We hear about play equipment that generates energy, over a sieve in the rivers to fish out the plastic before the water enters the sea, and over rain panels for collecting rainwater, using the energy of the drops. Beautiful. But what stands out is that the following is never actually said. Do you know what would be a good idea for a contribution to solving the climate problem? Let's go live up to our commitments! Children take it so naturally that we, the adults, the decision-makers, do what we have tried to teach our children ourselves, namely: if you have agreed something, then you have to do it. If you've made a promise, you have to keep it. There. That's where the problem is. The problem is not in the words we are talking about the climate, but in backing back if it gets a little tricky. That is why, two years ago, the Animal Party asked the Cabinet in a motion to draw up a coherent strategy for the fundamental changes that are needed to make society truly sustainable in the long term. That's not easy, and you have to make big plans for that. You've got to grow enthusiasm to get people into it. The Chamber thought that was a good idea. What's waiting for? That motion's been there for two years. With every little measure that's gonna hurt a little, you see retreating movements. I refer to the agreement on coal-fired power stations. Why has this long-term policy not been presented? Just because of the obvious confidence that children place in us, the only natural outcome of today's debate, the follow-up to the Paris climate agreement, is to ratify that agreement here in the ratification law. I find it appalling that there are parties who think differently about this, who try to delay the treatment of this law and who may even vote against it later. Where is the promise of parties like the VVD, the promise: appointment is appointment? Moreover, the implementation of a good climate policy is also a very good liberal principle. That doesn't leave the earth destitute and robbed for future generations and you don't say to those generations: well, good luck with it. The Animal Party wants to know from the Secretary of State whether it agrees that agreements must be kept, even if it is a bit difficult. And we'd like to know from the Secretary of State if she's willing to turn that two-degree target into one-and-a-half. She keeps saying questions about that: that's the goal. I think that's crazy. If you get driving lessons, it's not the endeavor that you don't drive over other people. No, the goal is that you can just drive a car safely. If we know that one and a half degrees is the maximum that we can absorb a little, limiting the rise in temperature to one and a half degrees should be the policy's starting point. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we are ratifying the Paris Climate Agreement as soon as possible, we are working on our promises and we are not satisfied with politicians who, at the very least, return to the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. We read in newspapers reports about climate change. We see images almost daily on the Internet and television. What the hell is true? What is climate change? And most importantly, what is the human influence on that? It's kind of complicated. At least there should be no climate confusion. We're not gonna solve a problem with scare-making, we're gonna solve it with realism. As a spokesperson, I read all about climate. All the facts and all the opinions are known to me. Although climate is the average weather condition over a period of at least thirty years, you sometimes notice that it is different. You wonder what that's like. People talk about it, not just in the Netherlands. I think we all have a task to keep the world a little liveable. After all, we only have one globe, and we must be careful about it. On the one hand, there are people who are going crazy with doom scenarios and scaremongering, saying that the earth is going to end. Doomthinkers also say that everything is the fault of the people. They want to force us to make a radical change in the way we live today and tomorrow. On the other hand, there are people who deny climate change, or who say that combating it makes no sense. They put their heads in the sand for the consequences. Both groups don't get much further. What is needed is a realistic approach and support. Because climate change has consequences, which means that we all have a challenge to respond to. The climate is important. The Netherlands has been formed by a centuries-long struggle against and dealing with water. Our access to rivers and the sea has brought us a great deal. At the same time, we are constantly fighting to keep dry feet. That battle will not end for the time being. We see global climate change. The Netherlands is the leader in terms of knowledge and long-term investment in water management. By exporting Dutch knowledge and skills, we can stimulate our economy and also help combat the effects of climate change. The government? It should try to influence our lives as little as possible. Instead, the government needs to address problems at source, by working on reducing CO emissions. This is how the climate benefits the most. In addition, as a VVD, we want to give a wide range of jobs to innovation and to guarantee that everyone can continue to make their own choices. Because living with pleasure doesn't mean we want to get all kinds of rules about how to live our lives. We can set up our lives very well ourselves. We can very well make sustainable choices ourselves. It is also very normal to take into account the environment, close and further away. That's how we do our part. For ourselves, for our children and for our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u22	This surprises me from the VVD. Because the VVD says: let's make individual choices. I very much agree with that. But why all the environmental taxes, all the extra storage on the energy bill? That is not free choice, you are forcing people to make a choice by means of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u23	The VVD likes low taxes, that's obvious. I think we both like that, because that ultimately gives us the ultimate freedom. At the same time, we have a very beautiful country that we have built together, which has not happened for nothing. People pay taxes and in return they have quite a beautiful country. We score very well when it comes to our attractiveness to people, to our roads, to our infrastructure, to our safety in the street, to our lampposts and to our greening. Everything has to be paid. I'm afraid you're gonna need taxes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u24	The VVD likes low loads. But then I am curious when they will finally come, because Dutch people pay the highest taxes when it comes to the car, but also the energy tax will get hugely out of hand, thanks to the VVD's policy. The taxes have only been increased. You're champion of tax increases, and you say you like low taxes. I don't know who you're kidding, but I don't think the voter's gonna buy it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u25	The financial part of the electoral programme is currently being passed on by the CPB. I think we're about to get a ruling on that. Then we'll see what the VVD does with the taxes. I'm very curious about that, but I do have an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u26	My colleague from the VVD said that he reads about everything in the area of climate and climate change. Then he is fully aware of the scale of the task. How can we say that citizens should be able to make their own choices as much as possible and that the government should ensure that CO emissions are tackled at source? Isn't that pure folklore? After all, Mr Dijkstra knows as well as I do that the challenges we face are enormous, which will require a great deal, including from our citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u27	I agree with you that the challenges are very great. But I disagree with you that the government should force everything. I believe very strongly in the ingenuity of people, in the ingenuity of companies and scientists, for example, to maintain our level of prosperity in innovative ways. I do not want to undermine that; I do not believe that people are prepared to make concessions in this respect. But it has to be in a cleaner, smarter way. We have everything we need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u28	In fact, it is said here: go to sleep, it will be fine as far as the climate problem is concerned. We have that all in the Netherlands. No one has to worry about that. Abandoning the use of gas is an easy task for the Netherlands. We are very good at water management, so it comes before the baker with making sure we keep our feet dry. It's not like that, is it? Surely it is completely unfair not to tell Dutch citizens that it requires a huge effort to isolate the built environment alone? The point is that people know what this means to them, for example in the kitchen cabinet, in the meter cabinet and in the garage, if there is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u29	I'll never say it's an egg, absolutely not. We have a huge task ahead of us: we have a lot to do. I believe that we have already started this process a long time ago. I'll give you some examples of that in a moment. Perhaps in contrast to GroenLinks, the VVD wants us to bring people along, that we create support for the measures we take and that we discuss all the measures in this house. I don't want people facing huge costs. I was just talking to Mr Madlener about that. We shouldn't have that. We need to do it in a smarter way that is cost-effective and that allows people to make choices. If we don't do that and we're gonna force it, we're gonna lose people, and it's not gonna help us. With the climate, it certainly doesn't make any sense. We'll lose our prosperity here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u31	Although I will not be able to see the year 2100, I hope that is the starting point, this is not statistically true for the babies and the young children: they are going through that year. And I want a healthy future for these kids. I have a daughter of my own who might be going through this, and she's asking, "Daddy, you're a Member of Parliament." What are you gonna do about it? I'll say, "I'm working on that," I can tell you. Following the old Kyoto Protocol, the environmental treaty we had, the international Paris climate agreement will have a major impact on our society for a longer period of time. The Netherlands can't do it alone, the whole world is needed and now it comes to implementation. We're working on that performance. Contrary to what some people are saying, this cabinet, the Netherlands, has set out the most ambitious climate and energy policy ever. That is what the VVD has done together with the Labour Party. No one's ever done as much as this cabinet before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u32	The energy agreement has been concluded for the first ten years. We have agreed to make our energy supply more sustainable. However, it takes time to wait for the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u33	I almost shoot under the bench of laughing, because everyone knows of course that the VVD was climate denier at the beginning of this cabinet period, à la Donald Trump. You can still read that in your own programmes, Mr Dijkstra. Minister Kamp has made a whole show of it at the beginning of this cabinet period. He's received everyone who knows about the climate. Then he came to the Chamber and said: listen, I have studied the climate problem. It's real, and we're gonna do something about it. So if you say that you have done so well together with the Labour Party, I say, yes, you have done so well, but you were late. You were not revisionist like the current American government, but you should not abuse the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u34	Let me congratulate Mr Vos of the PvdA. In the coalition agreement, at the beginning of this period, we agreed, not after a few months, nor halfway through the period, but at the time that we got into one boat together, that we would go for an ambitious climate policy, that we would implement it. That has resulted in the energy agreement and all those things you mention. So that's what we agreed at first. And we keep our agreements, which is contrary to what the PvdA sometimes does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u35	With the VVD we have achieved incredibly much in this area: we are building the largest wind farm in the world in the North Sea, we have closed half of the Dutch coal plants and we have doubled the amount of solar panels in the Netherlands almost every year. So we did a good job together. I am very happy, because I saw that you personally became more and more interested in the subject and I saw you grow into matter. So it's true that you read a lot about that. But let us do justice to the way things have been and not afterwards, as this happens often in The Hague.I sometimes see that in my own party too, putting the feathers of someone else's hat on our own, because that doesn't please us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u36	We did it together. And feathers... Who she's due doesn't really matter. The point is that it is good for the Netherlands, that it is good for the world and that we take responsibility. We were on that gas bubble in Groningen, but the Netherlands will soon be in the international middle in terms of the percentage of renewable energy. That's pretty good. A quadrupling of the share of sustainably generated energy in no time, no one in the world mimics us. And that, while our country is geographically located, we must also be honest in not comparing it with other countries where 50%, 60%, 70% hydropower is very easily available. There's nothing to be ashamed of. Everyone also understands that you don't have hundreds of windmills and solar parks operational from today to tomorrow. That goes one step at a time. Together we, the VVD with the PvdA, but also with others, put our hands out of the sleeve. From now on, every year, for five years, Dutch builders in the North Sea will set up the largest wind farms in the world. The first wind farms have recently been tendered and also authorised at such a low price, which we never expected in advance and which no one had thought possible. So we're gonna catch up. Let others talk, we just do. But there's also more. The Netherlands invests in sustainability and innovation, not just in energy transition. Our Prime Minister endorses the importance of sustainable growth, green growth, both in the Buitenhof TV programme and during the speech he gave for almost 2,000 people at the National Climate Summit in Rotterdam. Major steps are now also being taken in the field of waste and raw materials reuse. For biomass and biofuels, there are real opportunities to make energy, especially in chemistry and petrochemicals, more sustainable, for example. The VVD really wants to take big steps there. In chemistry, fossil fuel can largely be replaced by natural biobased materials and even waste. First of all, this saves huge amounts of imports of fossil fuels. Secondly, recycling of waste can drive new technology and stimulate it. Thirdly, we will achieve a significant CO saving, which really counts. The circular economy also contributes around 9% to reducing greenhouse gases. Research agency TNO estimates the potential of the circular economy for the Netherlands at 54.000 additional jobs and an additional added value of 7.3 billion. Partly on the initiative of the VVD, the national-wide programme Circular Economy has been set up, of which the raw material agreement signed yesterday is a result. This gives a strong boost to the recycling economy. But more importantly, I think that entrepreneurs will finally be given real space, especially if the waste stamp disappears and rules are adapted to make the green economy of the future compatible. This creates opportunities within Europe, with more jobs and more environmental benefits. Obstacles that stand in the way are removed. Economic growth and environmental gains come together in the VVD story. New businesses are emerging, with real jobs and especially opportunities for people who would otherwise be sidelined. There's also a social component in that. Last year I was allowed to open a factory in Swalmen in Limburg, just under Venlo. Drinking suits, milk, dairy, apple juice and so on, disappeared in the incinerator. Now they are collected and processed into new paper products. That's fantastic. In Limburg a few dozen jobs have now been added and that is a good thing. Everywhere I go, I see initiatives that I want to help step by step. I'm not finished by a long shot. I fight every day to connect sustainable and economics. It is my mission to show that the VVD understands that well and that both reinforce each other. For good policy you just have to go into the country, then you have to stand with your feet in the clay. As far as the VVD is concerned, the climate agreement is the most important international treaty that has been concluded in recent decades. The VVD wants to tackle climate change to keep our earth alive, but preserve lifestyle, freedom of choice and prosperity. That's the point. Fortunately, we can, because if we think smarter, choose smarter and rely on innovations, we can. The VVD is therefore pleased that in December 2015, the whole world participated in Paris to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with governments, scientists, companies and also involved citizens at the forefront. The VVD will continue to pay attention to the rest of the world and the steps taken elsewhere. That is also necessary to make a difference and ultimately to keep the earth viable. We only have one globe and we want to live on it normally and with pleasure. In the latter, it is true, because I do think that we should take account of the capacity and support of the population. So we don't rush through rucksichtslos, but we go on and on with common sense. As far as the VVD is concerned, a new agreement is coming after the current energy agreement, which is broader, including raw materials, and which has a climate approach. This broader climate and energy agreement 2.0 can enter into force from 2020 and therefore needs to be prepared around 2018. The consumer must not be forgotten. It is also desirable to focus central management on greenhouse gases, on CO2. As far as we are concerned, we are no longer pursuing multiple goals side by side. In any case, this gives long-term security to which investors attach importance. It also indicates the way forward, because after the current energy agreement, of course, we must move forward. I believe that a new cabinet will continue to build on the basis that it now stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u37	Almost in one clause, the point was presented that two other targets, renewable energy and energy saving, could no longer support the goal of CO reduction. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u38	The VVD wants to steer towards one goal, preferably the reduction of greenhouse gases, of CO. As far as I am concerned, that is the same thing; where I say CO, I mean greenhouse gases. We want to steer on one goal, because there are now multiple targets, in terms of savings and energy efficiency. If you choose our solution, for example the price of emissions, which I would like to tell you about in a moment, companies and society will choose how they can best achieve it. Then you can use other raw materials, like I said, in chemistry. You can isolate your pipes. You can use your garbage, your residual heat, or maybe offer it to your neighbor who can use it. Now, however, you see multiple goals next to each other. They interfere with each other; that is also indicated by the cabinet. I think it would be wise, in a new period, let me say from 2020, to really steer. If climate is serious, then you must also be cost-efficient and then you can best steer towards one goal, namely a reduction of greenhouse gases. That is the purpose and the means is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u39	And then the VVD Group doesn't want any more commitment to renewable energy? That would surprise me, because in the end we have to get rid of fossil fuels and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u40	We're making a huge change. We want to get to a final tip on the horizon: by 2050 a reduction of greenhouse gases. You can still have greenhouse gases, but if you put them underground, that's fine. The VVD really wants to steer on that one goal, because it's the most effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u41	I would like to return to Mr Dijkstra's point that we need to proceed with this whole plan, but with due regard for the lifestyle, which must be preserved. There are differences in footprint. The lifestyle of the average Blaricummer or Wassenaarder is different compared to someone in the Schilderswijk or the Spijkerkwartier, to name a few. Richer people just have much higher CO emissions. They have two cars, go on more flight holidays and take away more goods and services that already have a carbon footprint of themselves. There's quite a difference. People with little money spend about 9% to 10% of their income on energy, whereas for the richer people it is 3% to 4%. So there are big differences. Should we just leave those differences like that, because everyone has to have their own lifestyle? Or should we try to bring that more together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u42	That's an interesting question. I don't have a direct answer to it. I think it's important to look at support and carrying capacity. Especially when your income is lower, it's quite something if you need €30,000 to isolate your home. In order to accept the measures, we need to include the people in them. That's my goal. What do I mean, "behave your current lifestyle"? At least I don't think you should go backwards. Let's say the government's gonna force you to lower your purchasing power. This is the most debilitating measure ever. The financial consequences must be taken into account. I also want it translated into what this means for someone in a rental house or in a property. What does this mean for someone who takes his little car to work every day? What does that mean, so to speak, for what's on your plate? All such measures should be able to assess case by case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u43	I think it is an important point. I am not quite sure whether Mr Dijkstra's reaction is positive or negative. However, I will take this with me, because everything we have in grant instruments is much more accessible for people with a lot of money than for people with little money. They really do benefit a lot more from that. People with a detached house know how to find the route to the solar panels and the residential insulation. That is another story for people in a home of a corporation who claims to suffer from the landlord's tax and who are not going to isolate. So I'd like to invite the VVD to think about this, otherwise it's like "all fine those plans, but don't touch our supporters."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u44	No, I didn't. I would very much like to look together with the SP at what all the measures we are going to take or which result from this agreement mean to those people, whether they have a large or small scholarship; that really doesn't matter. What do these measures mean for people's freedom of choice? That is a point that we attach great importance to. I think we can agree with that. If such a measure is in place, then I think you should also speak in Parliament about what it means, both material and intangible. After all, the impact of such a measure can be very large. So we need to know what the consequences are. We are now saying 'yes' to this agreement, but, of course, the interpretation of the Chamber still has to pass as well as it has to be done in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u45	I am very pleased with the progressive understanding of the VVD on the climate issue. I have heard the words 'leveling' and 'divellering' here as well. These are all wonderful developments, but with regard to the triple objective I still hear the VVD say: well, you only have to send on CO; then it will be all right. If we had done so, how could we have achieved these huge cost reductions and those benefits for taxpayers in the procurement of wind at sea? If we had not done so, if we had only followed Mr Dijkstra's scenario, how would we have been able to reduce that cost as much as it is now and to which the VVD Minister is rightly so proud?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u46	The current energy agreement sets out several objectives, for example in the areas of renewable energy and energy saving. It says how many petajoule and how many jobs it has to be. The beauty of the energy agreement is that it has led to a huge reduction in costs. I believe that winds at sea go to 5.45 cents per kilowatt; that is really spectacular. I believe that's the lowest in the whole world. We are now a bit competing with Denmark. If this continues, also because of the clever way in which we are contracting out of the hands of investors who want to do so, you will see that already happening at Borssele 1 and 2 and that is happening at the same time at the rest of the world, then there will be a moment when renewable energy will compete with the 'normal' fossil energy from oil. Then it's actually a no-brainer. What are you gonna put down? Then you place a windmill because it's cheaper than using fossil energy. At that time, we can abolish subsidies. The subsidies now go only to exploitation. Of course, I want that to be reduced. I want that money. We're all going to pay for it through our energy bill. We're going to stick to innovation. It's 9 billion a year now. If we can give 1 billion a year to the technical universities to do good things about it, then we are much better off. So we want to get rid of subsidies in about ten years' time. They're still needed. There is also a need for an intermediate phase between the energy agreement which is about to expire and another one. But please let us move towards one goal as soon as possible: send on CO and make sure that renewable energy becomes cost-effective. When renewable energy can compete with fossil energy, I think we are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u47	In today's documents, the Minister also states that the scale-up is so efficient. I can also hear Mr Dijkstra say: CO is good, but for the next energy agreement we need that renewable energy objective again. I heard Mr Dijkstra speak of 'the next ten years'. I think that is a further moving insight, and I think it is wonderful to note that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u48	The VVD wants that as soon as possible. We'll see what we have now. A deal's a deal, so we'll find out. I have hinted at an energy agreement 2.0 after this period. As far as I'm concerned, there's one goal. There should be as little funding as possible for exploitation. All this money must go to innovation, because it is essential if we are to tackle these challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u49	I just heard my colleague from the VVD say that the measures should first be discussed in Parliament. Does that mean a switch and a goodbye to the energy agreement? In that case, Parliament was put in a position to act, because these agreements were made with companies and civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think that in the energy agreement 2.0, if we are allowed to philosophize about this in this Chamber, a few things were not right. It is, of course, fantastic that you do this with the whole civil society. Politics embraced that also in the beginning, in 2013, but after that you saw wishes coming from the Chamber, also from your party and from the Labour Party, to add a little bit. Then you have to deal with the fact that you have made agreements with the whole of society and that at first politics was a little under-involved and is still going to have wishes. Something else that has not been good: I think that consumers, who pay the bill, should also participate in an energy agreement 2.0. If you ask for a raise of a few tens of people, and if that increases, I also think that they should have a say in such a new social agreement, including the politicians and the parties that are already involved, but certainly including the consumer. I might even have a motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u51	I, too, am pleased with the progressive understanding of the VVD that the support base and also the scholarship of the poorer people in society are important. Of course, it would have been nice if that aspect had been involved four and a half years ago. Anyway, that's moving insight; better later than not at all. All political parties have called for changes to the energy agreement; I recall ALDEL. Shouldn't you prevent that by, for example, setting this out in a climate law? It will then be anchored by Parliament. We have our normal procedures for involving civil society organisations in the drafting of legislation. Would that not be a much better solution than a non-binding and legally binding instrument, such as an agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u52	The answer is no. A climate law is symbolic. I therefore understand the call, particularly from the companies, because they want investment security. The percentages mentioned in this climate law, which will be provided by the Cabinet for a further reaction, are in fact idiotic. That means such a deterioration in the lifestyle that we don't have them. We follow European policy in the Netherlands. It defines targets for 2030 and 2050. We have agreed on these objectives in Europe and they are very important. I say that these are the most ambitious climate targets anywhere in the world. I said earlier, then to Mrs Faber, that we should not be fooled: these are the most ambitious climate targets anywhere in the world. They go beyond Mr Trudeau's climate goals. Mr Obama is no longer here; we have to look at what Mr Trump is going to do, but Mrs Van Tongeren cannot deny that we, as Europe, have the most ambitious climate and energy policy, anywhere in the world. The Netherlands is part of that and we take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u53	I saw the true nature of the VVD squeak through it again in an intermediate sentence. Its purpose was to reduce our standard of living. The VVD makes beautiful decoration with all kinds of words and wants to consult. There is now even low-income compassion, and there is now a sudden need for popular support in this area. The Dutch economy is the sixteenth economy in the world. For the VVD it is therefore more important to maintain our lifestyle than to consider how we can all keep this planet viable. That's just the true nature of the VVD: first look at the fat me and then the rest of the world and the people after us can figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u54	No, Mrs Van Tongeren didn't understand at all. The VVD says that I have already said a few times that sustainability and economics go hand in hand. In fact, if you don't have an economy, what can you do about sustainability? Countries with poor economies or little regulation are often the most messy countries in the field of the environment. Environment and economics really go together. The trick is to connect it. I mentioned the example of the beverages cartons we used to burn. Now people are working on that and we have environmental gains and alternative raw materials. Mrs Van Tongeren, it is about innovation and looking forward. You have to take the people and not force or ignore the costs, as you wish. We are looking at this: what is the basis of support and what is the carrying capacity? I think the Dutch citizens really want to know what this means to them. I also think that they expect politicians in The Hague not only to pursue dogmas, but also to reflect on what this means and what is wise. They have a right to that. The new cabinet will continue to build on the basis that it now stands. Of course, we're still a long way from here. The good thing is also that the objective of the Paris Agreement provides clarity for the longer term. With percentages of at least 80 in 2050 and 40 in 2030, the Netherlands can now really get started at European level. Then you don't need the climate law either, because you already have those percentages. They're just standing there and so we're going to realize them with each other. The VVD does this, in particular by strengthening the pricing of emissions. Everyone, friend and enemy, agrees that something will be more expensive if you give it a price. Eventually, you stimulate innovation. Innovation is the solution. The VVD therefore focuses on a fair price of emissions. I have put forward numerous proposals in the Chamber for structural strengthening of emissions trading. Then the polluter will pay. Companies can then opt for less use of raw materials or energy saving. I do not care, as long as it contributes to the central objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The VVD is truly unique in that. We don't choose a particular technology either. The VVD leaves that choice to the market. I understand that this sounds a little abstract, but one thing I know for sure: if the market has a long-term goal to achieve, then it makes the most sensible choices and often automatically chooses the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions in this case and thus achieve the goal. The fact is that about half of all Dutch emissions come from industry and energy. There's that prize already. However, there are also sectors, such as agriculture, land use, mobility and built-up environments, where it is more difficult to give a price to emissions. In these sectors, we have a resource policy. It will then be effective to prevent emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u55	My interruption is still about the climate bill. It would be worth a lot to me if we got the VVD back there. I can also imagine that it's attractive for the VVD. A lot of companies have voted in favour of the climate law. If you can provide companies with a climate fund, a bit similar to the Delta Fund or the Infrastructure Fund, a bit longer investment security and if you can maintain policies reasonably across Cabinets you don't depoliticize it completely, but if you offer more certainty then it's really nice for the VVD to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u56	A law is a means. The current energy agreement is not a law either, and yet you see that it results. So it's a choice for a means. If you did, you'd have to make a huge change to that law. Take the percentages and multiple targets mentioned therein. As a result, society is merely burdened with unachievable goals or with enormous costs. We shouldn't want that. If we set targets, they must be realistic and feasible without too much damage to the prosperity and security that you have. And yes, business partly embraces the climate law. But if you listen carefully and ask around, you'll hear that they want investment security. They also saw that government policy in recent years, until we got the energy agreement, was very fickle. That didn't get much off the ground. Now we finally have a ten-year deal. If that's a success, if what's agreed is going to happen, then we have to go through with it. You have to learn lessons from what did not go well, for example that consumers did not participate, but you can also see what went well and give it a new shape. I think it would be wiser to include society in an energy agreement 2.0 than to adopt a climate law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u57	We're not handling that law yet, so there's plenty of time to think about it. Nevertheless, I would argue with the VVD in favour of the following: adaptation is regulated by a Delta Act, with a Delta Fund, and so you could regulate mitigation in a parallel mechanism. I would ask Mr Dijkstra to think again. Otherwise, he will be able to table an amendment on the left and right in due course. Maybe it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u58	That's good advice. I keep thinking. I can promise Mr Smaling that. We're gonna talk about this later. I am also looking forward to the opinion of the Cabinet, in particular on the percentages that differ from what we have agreed with each other in Europe. I was just talking about the price of emissions, but I was also talking about the implementation of source policies in other sectors, such as agriculture. The negotiations on the ETS are about pricing and efficiency sharing, the way in which you distribute it to the other sectors of the economy are now taking place in Brussels. The results are, of course, very interesting. The VVD will test it against about six factors. One: the consequences for our jobs, our prosperity, the purchasing power of the people and the development of the economy in general. I think this is always wise. Two: the support of society: the acceptance of measures and of costs. This is, in other words, about support and carrying capacity. Three: focus on one goal. If you take the climate problem seriously, I think you should focus on reducing greenhouse gases. You can build windmills as much as you want, but if you have lignite at the back, the CO2 does not decrease; the story is known. They are cost-effective and innovative in reducing greenhouse gases. Four: the VVD doesn't give blank cheques. There really needs to be a clear financial underpinning and understanding of where the costs take place and how that happens. Five: do we leave people sufficiently free in their own choices? They must be able to choose how to transport themselves, by bike, car, train or whatever. They must be able to decide for themselves how they live their lives. Six: a global approach. Climate change is a global challenge that the Netherlands cannot solve on its own. That is why we need to take into account what the outside world is doing and, above all, to monitor the level playing field. The VVD wants the Cabinet to provide detailed information on the overall impact, both material and intangible, and for whom, of any policy measures taken under the framework agreement of the Climate Agreement. Every choice and every proposal must be subject to review. For that, I have a motion in my back pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u59	I understand the remark that the VVD considers a level playing field important, because our competitiveness and prosperity are at stake. That level playing field may be greatly disturbed now that Donald Trump has been chosen. He said he's out. If that happens, it is possible that the Chinese who are already barely participating may say that it will be different for them too. Suddenly it falls apart. We are talking about a treaty that this cabinet will sign. What does the VVD do if Trump does say that America is no longer involved and that other countries may no longer participate? What does the VVD do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u60	Europe, as well as the Netherlands, has opted for certain reduction targets in 2030 and 2050. In 2018 it will be examined whether that is enough and whether we are on course. You can then see what happens in the meantime. Imagine Mr Trump saying, I'll tear this thing up tomorrow, we'll be done with it. Europe has said that, regardless of what is happening outside Europe, it continues with that 40%, because it also sees a lot of opportunities for greening the economy. It's not just trouble and torment and burdens for businesses. No, often there are earning points and earning opportunities for companies. If, as in Europe, you have the most innovative companies with the least consumption of raw materials and water and energy, costs are often lower and competitiveness is improved. We must pay close attention to the impact of the climate treaty on prosperity and jobs, but European, and certainly Dutch companies, are really able to compete well, precisely because they invest in efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u61	This is a false reasoning, because that global, global level playing field can now be turned upside down. The VVD says we'll just have to go through with it. It is not right for Mr Dijkstra to say that if the rest of the world or a number of large players are no longer involved, we will continue to do so. That playing field is no longer the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u62	My sixth point was literally that we must take account of the outside world and what it means. For us, the preservation of prosperity and jobs is paramount, together with the environmental and climate gains that we can achieve. I understand, by the way, that a number of states in America, such as California, have their own emission pricing system. So this is not just for Europe. In China, seventeen cantons also have a prize. They do this for another reason: they do this because they have dirty air. You do see the trend towards the price of emissions and the polluter pays principle. The latter is, moreover, a liberal principle for which there is something to say, especially if the population suffers damage as is the case in Asia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr Madlener, it has been agreed that there will be two interrupts. All my colleagues have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u64	I do not know whether Mr Dijkstra has read the Pope's encyclical Laudato Si'? The Pope calls the Earth in that encyclical our common home. I like that very much, because if your house isn't going well, you're not gonna be okay either. So it is very important that we take good care of that house. I hear Mr Dijkstra say that he considers prosperity, jobs and acceptance to be very important. Let me make it clear that my group also considers this important, but there can of course come a time when a piece of leadership is needed because we see that our common house is not doing well. Then our well-being, our prosperity, our jobs are not doing well. Is the VVD willing to show that leadership at any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u65	Leadership means taking responsibility as far as I'm concerned, but also indicating where you're going, a dot on the horizon. The beauty of this climate agreement is that it has been put on the horizon: where do we want to go and what is needed for a viable earth in terms of temperature, emissions and greenhouse gases? This climate agreement is indeed a kind of house. The framework stands, but how exactly do you set it up in all those sectors such as agriculture, traffic and transport, industry and energy? What do you put on the floor, what kind of window frames do you choose and what does it mean for the people living in that house? Of course, it will be completed later. I think we should look very closely at how we want to set up this house with each other and take into account the aspects that we consider important from our own basic principles. For the VVD, that is the freedom to choose, the freedom to be who you are and the freedom to make your own choices in your life, whether it's about transport or something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u66	I liked the beginning of the answer. I thought the VVD was really going to show some nerve, but at the end I thought the answer was getting a bit less. Then I heard again: people should be able to choose for themselves. I ask the question again: is the VVD prepared to do what is necessary, to show courage and leadership here and indeed put that dot on the horizon? Is the VVD prepared to set the frameworks, so that people and companies are able to make the right choices in there? Does the VVD, like the Christian Union, think there is only one way, namely to combat climate change and preserve our common home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u67	I can answer "yes" to that last one. I'm glad that dot's there, too. That means that everyone knows where he is and can then talk about how to get there. I want to be able to turn in directions, but the end goal is clear: we want to keep this earth viable, even in the year 2100 and also for the children of Mrs Dik-Faber and my children and actually for everyone. I also think that we have that duty. Mrs Dik-Faber calls that stewardship, I believe. I believe that we have this duty in view of our future. This certainly does not mean that we are going to run away from it, but it means that we will always have common sense about what is sensible now and in the future and how we are going to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr Dijkstra continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u69	The VVD believes that the cabinet cannot simply agree to a change in 2018 at EU level before knowing what the possible national contributions will be. I was just talking about it. This should take account of all the external circumstances that exist in America and China and the like and their significance for the target groups: the owner of houses, the owner of houses, the motorist, the farmer, the entrepreneur and so on. That is very important. First, the members of the House of Representatives must discuss this with each other. In all the policies that can follow from this, the VVD absolutely reserves the freedom to adopt separate positions. So we do not want to be confronted with the phrase 'you have signed this and now you must'. No, we always want to be able to make that choice ourselves. I asked what costs this would entail. The Planning Bureau for the Environment (PBL) and Energy Research Centre Netherlands (ECN) have indicated the bandwidth of the possible costs at macro level, but it is not really convincing. Let me give you three examples. Imagine having a house. Urgenda, the climate action group, says that you can make your home energy neutral: with an average home you can earn it back in fifteen years and that costs you €35,000. However, if I multiply that amount, €35,000, by the number of homes in the Netherlands, over 7.5 million, then there is an amount that is about the same as the entire national budget. How realistic is that? Are we gonna force people to do that? And what does that mean for their purchasing power? I think that serious questions deserve serious answers when we fill them in. I think that few people have such a sum and can or want to invest in their homes. Especially in the inner cities, that's not gonna happen. The supporting surface is therefore essential, but also the carrying capacity. Let us indeed start, as Mr Smaling also says, with new buildings and social housing, with housing corporations. They are the first step in the right direction. They operate fairly uniform and have the resources. A lot of people want to do something themselves, as long as it's voluntary and if they're taken care of. A second example is agriculture and horticulture. This sector represents an added export value of 85 billion, good for jobs, good for e.g. the Netherlands but also good for the climate. Mrs. Dik already referred to that. Our farmers also make an important contribution to dealing with the consequences of climate change. The average production per hectare in the Netherlands is five times higher than elsewhere in Europe. We grow crops that need less water. A good example is always the tomato. A kilo of tomatoes costs three liters of water here, which may cost 40 liters elsewhere. So we are doing it much more efficiently, and that is also a solution for areas where extreme droughts prevail. We have lower environmental pressure and higher yields. But are we about to halve our livestock to meet CO targets? I don't think that's wise, given the footprint we have. Are we going to force people to eat less meat? The VVD wants people to be able to make their own choices. And the security of food supplies for the future is not for nothing mentioned in this climate agreement. I think we should be proud of our agricultural sector. We are an example for many other countries. We are part of the solution with that sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u70	I totally agree with that. I hope Mrs Ouwehand has also listened carefully to this speech on the efficiency of Dutch agriculture and horticulture. I have the next question. I see a lot of farmers and gardeners who want to go a step further in this. For this we have the covenant Clean and Economical Agro-sectors, which contributes to climate-smart agriculture. I have tabled an amendment to give all those farmers and gardeners that little push in the back. The sector wants it and is ready to co-finance it, but unfortunately the VVD has not supported the amendment. That's why it didn't get a majority. I would like to know, after the words of just now, whether the VVD would like to give an impetus to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u71	I do not know the specific amendment and I assume that it has been submitted to the budget. I'm definitely gonna look into it. And in the future, who knows!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u72	That offers me a little bit of hope. I believe that we should encourage innovation on the farmyard where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u73	I'll look into it. A third example is mobility, transport and driving with fewer emissions. Banning petrol and diesel cars forces people to buy another car. How far do you want to go in there? As far as we're concerned, that's not gonna happen. I think compulsion is wrong. Measures must be realistic and there must indeed be that support again. Let's face it: cars are getting cleaner and we just need cars almost every day. The General Court concluded that despite the promotion of more economical and electric driving, there has been little CO savings in this area in recent years. If we look at the costs, they are exactly €916 per tonne avoided CO. That's not convenient. Sending at maximum CO gain and cost efficiency is. So, cost-benefits. At the same time, we see a huge amount of innovation taking place in this automotive sector. I call the self-driving cars. You can call cars in a minute. Then you say, "Go park yourself now and pick me up in a minute." I refer to car shows in Paris where manufacturers present a whole line of models with alternative drives. I would also point out the success of reducing emissions standards at European level from 130 grams through 90 and 75 grams to 35 grams in the near future. That's unprecedented. That is the success of the source policy we are pursuing in Europe with the imposition of stricter requirements on manufacturers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u74	I hear a point and give Mrs Van Tongeren the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u75	We sat together and watched until there was a point. This was once again an obvious example of the popularisation by the VVD. It was said here that the policy was too expensive to reduce CO emissions. But what does the VVD propose instead of that policy? It makes a proposal with exactly the same costs and expenses. So it doesn't make the citizen any better. In the proposal of the VVD only the most dirty cars become cheaper. Those are the heavy Mercedes, the fossil BMWs and the Audis. The VVD lease boxes are getting a lot cheaper. And then the ordinary citizen doesn't benefit from it, but neither does the climate. It is said that we need to spend the euro more carefully, we need to see where the costs are and we need to look at the basis of acceptance. That beautiful text is already being undermined here. I share the enthusiasm for innovation. But be honest and say: here we have rewarded the polluter and the greener can pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u76	The word 'terrorism' has already been used for the second time in this debate. I think it's really special. I don't think people are waiting for this at all. They are waiting for politicians to take responsibility. You can agree with that or not, but to put it off as a folk polish... I really think it is drunk that it is said that €916 per tonne avoided CO is acceptable. That's tax money. You can do much more efficient things with that, can't you? Let's look at cost efficiency in all those sectors. If you lose sight of that, then you raise the bill so high that all voters will soon walk away, even from GroenLinks, if they realize what the consequences are. That should not be the case. I want us to come up with solutions together. I'm in politics to solve problems. Sometimes we have to magnify them, but most of all, I want to fix them. Then it doesn't help if terms like "pollination" are used. It certainly doesn't help if Mrs Van Tongeren isn't prepared to take a look at the costs either. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u77	A falsehood was told. It has been calculated how much it cost with that policy, but those costs do not go down at all with the VVD policy. Exactly the same money is spent on zero tonnes of avoided CO emissions. The dirtiest cars are getting more expensive here. At least that's not helping. Be honest about that and say: when driving we choose the motorist, because that is what the VVD-choosers want. I understand that. If we want to work together to achieve an improvement, we must indeed look at the costs. For example, we have to look at such a project as in Rotterdam, the famous ROAD, which the VVD is so excited about. Mr Dijkstra is undoubtedly aware of the cost of CO per tonne avoided. It is €500 per tonne of CO avoided. The price is currently around €16. The VVD should not support this project as enthusiastically, given its principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u78	I didn't actually hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u79	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u80	The VVD rightly says that the cost of sustainable cars is getting lower. Consultant Bloomberg has calculated that in 2022 such an emission-free car will be cheaper than a fossil car. The VVD Group is right to say that everything needs to be tackled at the source, as it works very well. Consultant Bloomberg's office isn't the world's most left-wing agency, and says the emission-free car will be cheaper in 2022. Then we have all the advantages: a self-driving car and no emissions. Let's agree that from that moment on, we won't be selling fossil cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u81	I mean, it's just gonna happen all by itself, isn't it? Wind energy is also becoming cheaper than fossil energy. It was a bit of a stupid question from Mr. Fox. I can now explain what I was just about to tell you. All these manufacturers come with powertrains. It gets more interesting, and then it goes on its own. I don't think you're gonna need much government guidance on that. That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u82	I've always learned that there are no stupid questions, but there are stupid answers. But I won't get the ball. I do not think Mr Dijkstra's answer is entirely convincing. He knows as well as I do that innovations come about precisely by imposing requirements on cars. He just said that himself. If we are going to have a cost for the emission-free car that is equal or lower than the price for a car that does emit emissions, which is polluting, let us just say to each other, as we have done in other areas: we will stop this polluting mess; we will simply ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u83	I don't think there's any need for a ban. Then you go back to acting as a government, and there's no need for coercion. We need source policy. Source policies are also being pursued. We make it more and more stringent and then you see that development coming and coming. But the moment you start banning it, you send too much as a government and then you might slow down such an innovation. Maybe we can do it a lot sooner. There are examples of this. If you give emission a good price, it will be released in one go much sooner. We have to work together on that. But coercion and prohibition is not the line of the VVD. Stimulation can occasionally, but preferably without subsidies. Let the market in particular do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr Dijkstra comes to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u85	The Netherlands has everything to make the implementation of the climate agreement a success. The Netherlands has the best solutions for the rest of the world. I mentioned them: water, agriculture and even electric cars. We control our own future. We must constantly continue to innovate, do special things, invent and make special things. That's our goal. So tackling climate change in the Dutch way: not talking, but doing. Keeping our earth viable while maintaining our lifestyle. Together we make the Netherlands stronger and ultimately the best country in the world. Let's just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u86	I have resisted any temptation to debate earlier with Mr Dijkstra all the provocations he threw into this Chamber. Fine. My question is whether the VVD will support the ratification law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u87	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u88	Fine. I look forward to the substantive debate on all the things you have just raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u89	Absolutely! I gave you what we're testing. These are going to be very interesting and fun debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u90	Absolutely, that's all the debates here. Thank you very much. We will continue with Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. No one will be surprised that the PVV will not support the ratification of this climate agreement, the Paris agreement. I will explain in ten points why we think it is a bad agreement. First, scientific uncertainty. Here, it is often pretended that all scientists agree, but the opposite is true. The climate is an incredibly complex system and climate science is still in its infancy. It is therefore very uncertain whether we can understand, let alone influence, global warming. It is certainly not the case that all scientists agree. That is why it is all the more strange that this Chamber is so united. Half of the Dutch people, too, have been researched to do this. The other half believe in it, but in this Chamber about 90% agree and they seem to be 100% sure. That's not science anymore, it's faith. We continue to think critically and I refer to all the scientists who have doubts about the current state of affairs. There are whole lists on the Internet of all scientists who doubt the accuracy of the IPCC-climate projections. We still have a whole list of scientists who say that global warming is mainly caused by natural causes. I can go on with a whole list of scientists. I won't list them all. Finally, there are the scientists who say that, although there is warming, it is actually not that bad and that the negative consequences are to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u92	That raises a question with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr. Madlener, what are you breathing out of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u94	I don't know what the meaning of this question is, but yes, I also produce CO, just like you. I am curious about the background to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u95	You're talking about science. Maybe we could do a scientific experiment sometime. If you take a plastic bag and you blow in there, we'll see what happens when you breathe the CO you exhale. I can assure you that will not be a successful experiment for you. Exactly the way it is with Earth. We can talk about it long and wide, but it's as simple as that. You really don't have to bring in science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u96	I also brought back a stain of the CO levels of our atmosphere. That's pretty much what you're saying. There's been an investigation in ancient ice layers into what our atmosphere was like up to 800,000 years ago. And then you see on this chart how these levels vary. There are all kinds of peaks and valleys. We are in a peak right now, with 400 parts per million. However, that is not so exceptional at all. This has happened throughout history, and so does Mr Vos. We are in a peak and that is also apparent from the last piece. You like to show only that last piece and then you say "see how it increases," but if you look much further back, you will see that that is not unusual at all. We still ask these kinds of questions, but you've stopped thinking. You say, no, I'm going to use it all for my political gain. We continue to think critically. I've just given you a huge list of scientists who have doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thinking critically is very good, but I do like it when you speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u98	I'll try. The NASA, the well-known American investigative body, has said that the sun has a major impact on our climate, that we do not know exactly how that works and that further research needs to be carried out. That factor is always kept hidden here. Everyone agrees, but fortunately the PVV continues to think critically. The second objection to this convention is the cost, the cost of the energy transition. The General Court has set these costs at EUR 73 billion until 2023. Can you see what this is going to be until 2050? Of course, that is what our Dutch citizens are going to pay left or right. What does this mean for our citizens? That's a question I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. What is this going to mean in concrete terms for the Dutch' wallet? Part of the answer was given by the Council of State, which wrote in its opinion: "The explanatory memorandum does not show that the government has taken account of the exceptional extent of the implementation obligations imposed by the Treaty on the Netherlands in both policy and financial terms." You're scared, aren't you? And nobody's asking a question about that. I told you, it has become a faith and there is no more critical thought. I have a third objection to this climate agreement. There is also 100 billion extra development aid in this treaty. And we all know that development aid does not work at all and mainly ends up in corrupt regimes in Africa, etc. A fourth objection: the unreliability of the treaty partners. We have absolutely no confidence in the fair implementation of these agreements. The interests are simply too great and the Netherlands is always a bit more reliable than other countries. The Netherlands as a good boy in the class. The Netherlands will again pay the biggest price. Anyway, that's a prophecy, and I admit I'm a little cynical. I've been walking around Brussels for years, and that's how it always goes. The Netherlands does what it has to do, gives good figures of the CO emissions and the other countries think: that's nice, the Netherlands drives its own industry at cost, so come here with that industry. A fifth objection: the treaty is already partly in the wastebasket. US President Trump has doubts about this treaty and there is a good chance that the Americans will get out of it in whole or in part. Of course, the chances of others following that example are also very high. You don't think developing countries like China will just go through with this without making a profit? This brings with it enormous risks. The VVD has already indicated: no matter what America does, we will continue. Of course, that puts everything on its head. That needs to be discussed. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks of this risk. The international competitiveness of our country will suffer enormous damage and the prosperity that we have all built up will be very easy to lose. Then there is a sixth objection: this treaty is unbalanced. It's not fair. The Netherlands already has a very efficient industry and countries like China are currently building 150 new coal plants. The Netherlands is going to do much more than justifies the current state of affairs. A seventh objection: The Netherlands drives industry away while production only moves. The Netherlands will then import more. This objection has been mentioned many times. Once again, the consequences are underestimated. Just think of the closure of coal plants, where the question is whether the dirty lignite plants in Germany will simply take over the production of electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u99	I see that Mr Vos wishes to intervene on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u100	Let's get back to the facts. China is currently shutting down 138 coal plants. China has also, today in the Wall Street Journal, published statistics showing that coal consumption around Beijing and a number of other major cities is decreasing rather than increasing. So what is Mr Madlener's position on the 150 coal-fired power stations under construction? Those are not the facts that are reflected in the media I read, like The Wall Street Journal and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u101	If Mr Vos is so impressed by China's environmental performance, I would advise him to read the newspaper again. Then the eighth objection...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u102	I apologise, Mr President, but I am simply asking Mr Madlener a question. He says there's gonna be 150 more coal plants in China. I would point out to him that at the moment 138 coal plants are being closed down. I saw in The Wall Street Journal today a statistic showing a decline in coal consumption. And Mr Madlener is just going over it. I think it is important to discuss this on the basis of facts. So I ask Mr Madlener to answer my question: what is the source of his statement that 150 coal plants are under construction or are planned in China? The answer is, of course, that he doesn't know that. 'Cause it's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u103	I can elaborate a lot on China. China is also the country that is building an enormous number of nuclear reactors. That is what England is doing; neither does Mr Vos. We can have a huge debate on China, but the country is not exactly known for its environmentally friendly production. I also see that imports from China have taken on a huge scale. So if we make production in the Netherlands more difficult or expensive, it will move to China. And then I can tell Mr Vos one thing: that does not improve the environment, but makes it worse. Maybe it will get better in China, but at least it will not help the climate. The Netherlands is leading the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u104	Would you like to finish? You've got half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u105	I come to the eighth point. The measures taken by the Netherlands are often also bad for the environment. Dutch environmental policy is often very bad for the environment. I have examples of this too. We've been talking about that for years. Think of the mandatory mixing of biofuels. This is typically one of the environmental measures that the parties have supported here, including the PvdA. But as a result, huge jungles have been felled for the planting of palm oil plantations. To this day, we are obliged to throw those biofuels into our cars. Let me give you another example. That's about burning...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you very much. You have run out of speaking time, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u107	I myself have estimated how long my contribution would take, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost at the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u108	If you'd like to say a few more sentences, that's fine with me. But I'd like you to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u109	Yes. The second example is the burning of North American wood in our coal plants. That is too crazy for words and bad for the environment. That too is the result of this kind of agreement. I've come to the ninth objection. There's new techniques coming up. These are cost-effective techniques; we have heard this from Mr Vos of the PvdA. Think of safe nuclear power, high-efficiency solar panels and maybe even the car. It is therefore better to wait with all kinds of expensive measures. The final point is that the PVV believes that people should be able to make their own choices. People who believe in this must above all do something about their carbon footprint. Yeah, that lady in the back room, too. She believes in climate change and yells that from the rooftops, but don't let them take those long flight trips to Africa anymore. The same goes for the gentleman in the room who says that all these CO emissions are very bad. Does he think those five cute kids of his don't produce CO? I would just like to say that the people with the biggest mouths often do not set an example themselves. They live in expensive houses, go on holiday for a long time and then complain about climate change. Let's leave it to people themselves. If you believe in it, do something yourself. But leave the people who don't believe in it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr. Chairman. We do not support this treaty. I warn on behalf of my party about the consequences of this historic mistake. But as so often happens, history will teach us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u112	This is a pleasant contribution, because there are ten clear points in it. I agree with some of those points. With a few things, however, I have a bit of a problem with the facts. We often talk about new facts and "alternative facts." In my opinion, 95% of scientists believe that climate change is a problem. We do not want 100% of scientists to agree on this, because that is bad for science. But 95% is a significant percentage. Is Mr Madlener aware of this too? A second question concerns the graph shown by Mr Madlener. I really liked him showing that, because it's very relevant. Climate fluctuations are of course of all times. But the last increase is, of course, the period of the industrial age. Then we went to extract all that coal and oil from the deeper layers of the earth. So that's a whole new situation. The increase in CO in the air can be attributed to that. So that's different from the skating you see in the paintings of the old masters. I also have a question about development cooperation. Does Mr Madlener really want farmers who will no longer be able to grow crops in areas that often dry out to the cities and eventually take the boats here from Libya? I don't think he wants that at all. So at that point, I can't follow him at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u113	These are three questions. I'll try to answer all three. The first was about the scientists, who would agree 95%. Depends on which group of scientists you take. If you look at all the science and other relevant scientists, I think the percentage is much lower. But a lot of scientists will be convinced. There's also a lot of money going to these scientists. That also makes me a little skeptical. If you give a lot of money to scientists and say "go investigate it," then it will help them to increase the problem. What I'm just saying here is that a lot of scientists don't agree with it either. They're not stupid people. They're also very clever scientists. We just need to recognize that. I have expressed my surprise that all these parties here seem to be in agreement. They don't ask any more critical questions. Maybe you still do, but you always hear of it: it's just the way it is and we have to do everything we can. At the very least, I'd like to question that. As far as you are concerned, that may be a small question mark, but it is there. Then there was a question about the graph. I wanted to show that graph because it shows that, if you look at a very long period of time, the CO rates are at least not unusual. All those COs that are now released from fossil fuels used to be in our atmosphere. The Earth had a very clean atmosphere at the time. There weren't even any people back then. What I'm trying to say is that that fear that it's never been shown historically isn't true. You know that, too. These percentages of CO have occurred before. The earth just kept going and the animals just stayed alive. It is, of course, true that by human action, by burning fossil fuels, CO increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u114	Finally, development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'm not denying that here either. The question is: how bad is that, what is it going to lead to, and is that exactly the cause of the warming? There are doubts about that. We'll have to name those cases. The last question was about development cooperation. I did not quite understand the question, but we have very bad experiences of giving money to poor countries. Mr Smaling also knows all the problems of corruption in those countries and the huge difference between rich and poor in those countries. There's a culture of favoring your own family. I would like to warn you that we are going to promise such amounts, we are going to promise 100 million a year, after all the bad experiences we have with development aid. Then I guess we're gonna make the same mistakes again. In any case, we consider that to be a very serious objection to this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr Smaling with a brief interruption, so that a short answer can also be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u117	I'll be brief. My first interruption was a long time. I think it makes sense for the PVV to come up with ten points, but I would like to test them all for factual correctness. That has moved me to ask these three questions. We don't agree yet, but it doesn't matter. In any case, it is clear what the positions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you. I don't hear another question. I would like to thank Mr Madlener very much for his contribution. The Secretary of State is requesting a two-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr. Chairman. The CDA hopes that if we look back on the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement in 20 years' time, we can conclude that we have taken important steps for future generations in the Netherlands and the rest of the world. We are on the eve of major changes and our group notes that there is no plan B. As the Council of State has indicated, the implications of this agreement are quite considerable. This also requires the climate agreement and implementation. The Netherlands is very small and that is precisely why we need a global agreement. The CDA wants to work together with our fellow countries in the European Union and with the rest of the world. From Europe, we want to focus on a major CO reduction. The renewable energy and energy saving targets should support that first objective, the reduction of CO. To achieve that goal, a great deal will have to be done. It is therefore important to maintain the commitment and energy involved in the development of the implementation framework. We'll ask the Secretary of State if we can do that. To what extent are national contributions already being analysed? And what's coming out of it? How are these national contributions evaluated? Does that happen in a transparent way, so that it can be followed? What are the times when the Party may be asked to take additional measures, if these prove necessary? And who's gonna decide that? With regard to the question of legal enforceability, our group reads in the note on the basis of the report that the national court could enforce the agreement. The CDA wonders to what extent the Convention imposes obligations on a state vis-à-vis its inhabitants. In particular, the CDA sees the Convention as a treaty with which States undertake obligations vis-à-vis each other. Does the Secretary of State see it that way? If you assume that the treaty involves agreements between states, you may ask to what extent they are enforceable by another state or by an international organisation. This is an important global agreement. The CDA wants the Netherlands to cooperate in particular in the European context. As part of the ETS reforms, the CDA asks the Secretary of State for its views on cooperation in the North-West European context. Does she see any additional possibilities in that? Where are the initiatives in the rest of the world? Can the Secretary of State give you any further information on this matter? The ETS will have to work. The CDA wants the Netherlands to take the lead in innovation and invest in it. For example, we are proud of our national icon, the company REDstack on the Afsluitdijk. That company draws energy from a combination of fresh and salt water. The Netherlands has committed itself to the Mission Innovation project and should therefore double the investment in innovation. How's that going? Does the Secretary of State think that she and Minister Kamp have already done enough for this? What are they going to do this year? The CDA wants our households and our businesses to contribute to the CO reduction. The Netherlands has set itself this task for 2030. The CDA wants flexibility in the implementation of CO reduction in non-ETS sectors. This could avoid unnecessarily higher costs. In that perspective, I have a question on the answer to question 41. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider how the storage of CO in the upper bottom layer can count in the non-ETS CO reduction target? Is flexibility part of the Secretary of State's line? I'm rounding up. Why was the Paris climate agreement a success? I think that is because the French have entered into dialogue with the world from below. Business, civil society and local authorities are strongly involved in reaching the agreement. That was also a great wish of the Netherlands. It was a long road, but it's worth it. We will have to implement this important agreement together, because future generations will hopefully look back on this milestone in our history. It certainly won't be easy. We need everyone: companies, residents and governments. Together we will have to make the changes from the bottom up. In doing so, we will have to look at a fair distribution of lusts and burdens. We will also have to have the courage to listen to each other sincerely and to take each other's concerns seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u120	Mr. Chairman. When Yuri Gagarin was the first astronaut to leave the earth's atmosphere in the early 1960s and looked down on the earth, it was not the space and the vastness of the universe that so surprised and fascinated him, but the smallness and nullity of our earth, especially the vulnerability of the atmosphere around the earth. He later said that this really came to him as a shock and that he then realized how vulnerable humanity really is. You're not gonna see until you realize it, a certain Dutchman would have said. This is also a bit of the problem with climate policy. Mr President, you must forgive me, but by the end of this cabinet period I am not only talking about the Treaty of Paris, but I am also looking back for a moment. The fascinating thing about this period is that in the Netherlands, we have done an incredible deal to improve climate policy. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for that. In the relatively short time it has managed this dossier, it has taken a large number of initiatives, including a major conference recently. It is her involvement in this dossier that she herself has indicated, as one of her colleagues pointed out earlier today, that attending and cooperating in the establishment of the Treaty of Paris, which we are discussing today, has been a highlight for her during this term of office. This was not only about her period as Secretary of State responsible for the climate, but about her entire term of office. I think that everyone who talks about energy, climate and environment feels the same way: in the end, this subject counts most of what you do. After all, we all know that we are only walking around here for a while and that the earth is then passed on to subsequent generations. We also know that the problem is so big that in decades, perhaps 70 or 80 years, the real seriousness of what we are doing now will become apparent. That makes it very difficult for people to understand. After all, as the governor of the English bank put it in a fine speech: you think in a period of four years that is the period for which you were elected - if you are a politician here, or in a period of five years, if you are a politician in China, or in a period of five to ten years, if you run a business. But on the ten-year horizon, it really stops for humans. Man is well-equipped to change things directly around him in the here and now, but much less equipped to change anything in the longer term. This "tragic of the shifting horizon," as it is mentioned in the climate law that we are going to submit together with GroenLinks, is one of the major challenges on this issue. It is therefore incredibly good to see that all these countries and different cultures come together, with all their different democratic and non-democratic traditions, and yet conclude such a treaty with each other. We're only trying to work together on an interstate level here on Earth 100 years ago. That doesn't always work. The first institute that was established for this purpose, the League of Nations, has just disappeared again. The United Nations has existed since World War II. Under the auspices of the United Nations, we have been working together on climate improvement since 1992. That all seems to be a long time, but when you see how long it took nation states in the world to create one of those countries in the Netherlands and before democracies have been established, and when you see how vulnerable those democracies are, it's actually a miracle that we can make agreements with each other. We have proven that we can do it before in the Montreal Convention, in the case of CFCs and the hole in the ozone layer. People sometimes say in debates like this, if they are not well informed: yes, that hole in the ozone layer just disappeared, right? No, that didn't just disappear. That disappeared because politicians, officials, policy makers and companies have started working together to solve that problem. That is exactly what we are doing now in the field of CO and greenhouse gases. It is fantastic to note that we are making progress in this regard. I also have a basic question for the Secretary of State. I would like to ask her for her opinion on the current political situation in the United States. What's happening there is very special. Let me put it this way: at the moment the VVD, with Mark "Donald" Rutte, and the PVV about who has the most Trumpian look, but the PVV is much better informed about the climate problem than Donald Trump. With that, I must compliment the PVV spokesperson after listening to him today. The PVV spokesperson asks legitimate policy questions, but he understands what it is about. I don't have that impression with the American president. Does the Secretary of State share my opinion on this point? What is the latest state of play on tightening up the ETS? My group tabled a motion in February 2016 together with D66 on a new CO-tax to be introduced. We have also mentioned a country as an example. What's the status of the investigation on that? It is one of the many motions that has not been dealt with as vigorously as I would like to see. I'd like to point that out to the Cabinet. In answering the questions, the Secretary of State states that she considers it premature to insist on tightening up the EU INDC. Those are the goals set by the countries. At the same time, there is a large majority in the Chamber who does want this tightening up. He'd rather see 55% than 40%, just to put a few numbers on it. How does the Secretary of State see that? I come to the appeal ruling in the Urgenda case. Does the Secretary of State have any idea when it's coming? I find that interesting. My next point is CCS. As far as my group is concerned, the coal plants are simply closing down, but CCS is far more than just the ROAD, as has been suggested here today. You can also apply CCS to gas plants and other industrial installations. And at that point I still see very little awareness and development in the documents of the cabinet. My group believes that this is necessary, because if we really want to move towards negative emissions and towards a zero policy for industry, then we will have to do more about it. Can the Secretary of State give her views on that? And is she willing to oblige all major Dutch companies to come up with a roadmap to reduce their CO emissions or to capture them via CCS and store them in, say, the next 25 years, so the period until 2040? What about the IEA Greenhouse Gas Programme? That's a program we've been in in the past and we got out of. That also has to do with CCS. I believe the previous cabinet has quit. If we continue with CCS, as is stated in the energy vision, should we not also be taking part in this programme again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u121	Colleagues. We will continue with the first reply from the cabinet. To that end, I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr. Chairman. I was going to do my answer on the treaty and its ratification in three major blocks. I will start with a block on the Paris agreement, including the bill, the more legal questions that have been asked and some political questions. Next, there will be a block on European policy, focusing mainly on the emissions trading system, ETS. The last block is about what we are doing at national level. Energy policy has been discussed for a moment, but also for example innovation and what needs to be done. Those are the three main blocks and the line of response. Mr Smaling and Mr Vos referred to the fact that in the NRC I was recently asked about the high point I was allowed to experience during the past cabinet period. For me, that was the moment when we from the Netherlands witnessed not only the conclusion of the Treaty of Paris, but also the moment when I myself was allowed to contribute to the negotiations. When the hammer fell and the treaty became a fact, that was a magical moment for me, as was for many of you who were present in the Chamber. There are very few moments in a human life that you know for sure at the moment that you will remember this years later and that it will be something that you hope to share with your children in my case, and perhaps even with your grandchildren later. It is such a moment when not only the world with all world leaders and states will find each other, but you also know that there is no going back. There's no turning back. Recently there were reports from the KNMI in 2016. That was the hottest year ever. That kind of message comes through. You will notice that climate change is still a little far from them for a lot of citizens in the Netherlands. I recognise that it is very important to gain greater support for the concept and to make its meaning better understood in Dutch society. In Bangladesh, for example, the water is literally on people's lips. So you can see that the consequences of climate change have long and wide been felt worldwide. That calls for action. It is important that we do this together. I am pleased to see that there is so much support, including in this Parliament, for what is attached to the legislative proposal that is now before us. We need to take steps to ensure that Dutch society, as well as the world, will soon turn climate-neutrally. That's really the point. Very often differences are highlighted in this type of debate. It should be, because that's politics. Today, however, I find it striking that there is also a very high degree of agreement between all of you in the Chamber. That is also the way in which the Treaty of Paris came about: from that spirit. I sincerely hope that it will be possible to continue working together in the coming years. I really think we can do this. I'm sure of it. All parties participating in this climate agreement are expected to be climate neutral in the second half of this century. They must be able to resist the effects of climate change. Financing flows must be brought in line with this objective worldwide. That really is a huge task. We realise that, like all the other countries that have already signed the agreement, such as Poland, Saudi Arabia and China. It will require efforts from all citizens, businesses and governments. A long-term vision of this necessary change will help to ensure that efforts are made as gradually as possible, as this is necessary. The Energy Agenda is a first step in this direction. Several MPs have already looked ahead to the next cabinet period. I will conclude with you in a moment that this is a first step. We're a long way from here. I think it is a good idea for the more sceptical listeners to make an argument. I do not see him now, for example, on behalf of the PVV, indicating that he is not yet convinced. This agreement also causes a great deal of damage. If we keep our promises in the words of Mrs Ouwehand..................................................................................................................................................................................................... This therefore also generates innovation and thus new jobs and jobs. Mrs. Ouwehand asked, "What are we going for?" We actually have the 1.5 degrees in sight. Why doesn't the Secretary of State just say that we commit to it? Others asked for it. We committed ourselves in Paris to limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees. We do indeed have the aim of limiting the number of degrees to 1.5 degrees. That's how it's literally established and not different. It is not yet sufficiently clear what exactly is needed to limit global temperature increases to 1.5 degrees. That is why we agreed, again in Paris, to ask the IPCC to draw up a special report on this subject. That will be available in September 2018 and will be an important input for the so-called international facilitating dialogue. I cannot help it, but that is the formal term.... about the progress made by the parties to the Paris Agreement towards the agreed goals. Of course, we are going to take a serious look at this from the outset. I would add that this can only be done internationally and that the report must provide all the important information for that purpose. The biggest problem at the moment is that we are not even close to the 2 degrees. If you look at all the contributions from the countries added together, you can see that we are still far above 2 degrees. The first task now is to ensure that everyone does what he has promised and that all these contributions together will create a situation in which we will at least stay well below 2 degrees. Mrs Dik-Faber asked what opportunities we see for accelerating the process of assessing and increasing the national contribution. I think 2018 - the year I just mentioned - is already very ambitious. We are now making sure that the contributions at European level are all in good shape. I will go into that further in a moment. In 2018 we will see what the collective new ambition is. The European Union will look at its own goals in the rhythm of these ambitious mechanisms. At the moment, in the European debate, the question is: what are we doing with ETS? I will go into this in detail in my second block. We are also asked what we are doing about the division of effort so that we have our policy towards 2030 on track. That's gonna be a huge job already. It's gonna be a hell of a job getting that done. Mrs Mulder asked about the legal obligations and the enforceability of the agreement. The agreement is a treaty. After its entry into force, the Netherlands will have to comply with the obligations of the Agreement. An important obligation is for parties to submit and maintain a nationally determined contribution every five years. It must show more ambition than the previous ones. The agreement alone does not define the content and the way in which national contributions should be maintained. That's what parties decide. Other obligations in the agreement are not new and were often already obligations on the basis of the 1992 global framework treaty. It is such that it remains so and so that the court can include the purpose of the agreement in the assessment of the legality of the policy. That is ultimately a matter for the Dutch judge. Mr Madlener asked about the costs. The Netherlands has not submitted its own national contribution, because our contribution is part of the EU contribution. We have a reduction target of at least 40% compared to 1990. We divide that into 43% for the ETS sectors and 30% for the non-ETS sectors. The negotiations are currently under way in Brussels. ECN and PBL have passed on the costs of the non-ETS declaration for the Netherlands. We also sent that information to the Chamber. On the basis of this study, the Cabinet considers that the costs to Dutch society of the European Commission's non-ETS proposal are acceptable. In the negotiations on the proposal, we will, of course, ensure that this remains the case. Strengthening European resource policy can very much contribute to a cost-effective implementation of this task. That is why we are so committed to this. Mrs Van Tongeren asked what the consequences of approval for the Kingdom would be and whether everyone would participate. The law is a state law and therefore regulates the approval of the agreement for the whole Kingdom. The countries of the Kingdom have been asked whether they wish to participate. Aruba has already responded positively to this. Earlier in Paris they were extremely active. I've seen them at other times, too. President Eman had a special button made: "Only 1.5 will keep us alive," I think was the explanation. So this lives in the Kingdom. This also makes sense, because islands elsewhere in the world may have to deal with the consequences of climate change even faster than we do. Caribbean countries seeking co-financing are taking their own measures to contribute to the objective. They adapt it to their own needs. Mrs Van Tongeren also had a critical point. She said, that's all nice and nice, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u123	The Secretary of State and I were pleased with what came to support from the Caribbean Netherlands. The co-reliance of Aruba would be fantastic, but there are two other countries. What about if we are a kingdom together and we ratify for the whole Kingdom? So how do we ensure that we also get these two countries involved and keep them involved in the implementation of the Climate Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u124	I'd think temptation would work best for this. In the end, they have to decide for themselves whether to ask for co-financing. I understand that we cannot enforce that. Of course, it is in their interest that measures are taken. As has been said, the islands are potentially the first "victim" at the time of sea level rising, which poses insurmountable problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u125	Like the Secretary of State, I'm incredibly tempted. Recently we were on a working visit, also on Curaçao. Willemstad is not so far above sea level; that is also very visible. How could we tempt these countries from the Netherlands to at least reflect on the implementation and to organise co-payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u126	In my opinion, this is just about good cooperation. If there are issues surrounding climate policy, for example, or knowledge that is needed, we can of course also work together. We do that with Aruba, but we also hang out a lot internationally at times when this is convenient. We have done a great deal at various times from the Netherlands for the smaller "islands" too. They also unite internationally, as a group. These are the routes that we need to take to keep the awareness process going and to ensure that people move, including those islands that have not yet applied for co-financing. I think that's the best way. Mrs Van Tongeren made a critical point about ratification when she said that it seems that the legislation has been waiting a long time. At his Trumps I would say: we have the best ratification process in the world; the best, amazing, it's true. Period, my own Sean Spicer would probably suggest saying after it. In this case it's also a little bit true. It is therefore not an alternative fact in this case. I have to come up with some arguments now. We normally need at least a year and a half to ratify a treaty, at the earliest. Now, not only have we signed the agreement in ten months, but we have also submitted the bill to the Chamber. That is, as the spokesmen can calculate, much faster than the time limit that normally stands. Why do we need more time than some other states? Unlike France, the Netherlands is not governed by decree. We had to start a normal legislative procedure, including making a law, preparing the decision-making process in the Council of Ministers and the opinion of the Council of State. It's just a matter of time, and it has to go through. We have taken this up with more priority, which has made it much faster than the ratification of treaties in the Netherlands normally takes on average. Really. It's true. Mrs Mulder asked how the national contributions of countries are analysed. She is right to ask for this, because it is an extremely important point, especially with regard to the transparency provisions and the elaboration. The transparency provisions build on strengthening the arrangements already included in the UN Climate Change Convention. All parties will report periodically on the climate measures taken. Parties not reporting or failing to do so shall be addressed by the other parties. The Agreement does not provide for sanctions, but opts for a facilitating and non-acting approach to seek an appropriate solution, rather than enforcement. Negotiations on how this should work began in May 2016. In Marrakech, we agreed to complete these rules by the end of 2018. It's important that this goes well. I'll be at the end of this block. Several members have asked for an appreciation of developments in the United States. Let me say a few things about that. It is very disappointing to see that the Trump administration is currently choosing to go back years in time with environmental policy. In the campaign, it was said that the climate treaty should actually come out. So far, the status is unclear, but the omens are bad. Mr Smaling rightly referred to a tweet that I sent out last night following the news of the start of pipeline construction in the US. I have called that bad for people and the environment. I really do. Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned that at the same time there are all kinds of movements that seem to have been put on hold in the field of environmental policy. We in the world want to take steps forward on this issue. In Paris, we have seen that the US plays a huge role in diplomatic relations, for example towards China. That is why these are very disappointing signals. I can't help but point this out. At the same time, I am still a total optimist, fortunately always hope, for a few reasons. First of all, at least nineteen states in the US have indicated that they simply want to expand their own energy policy and also want to operate in accordance with the Paris Agreement. Those states aren't in the Rust Belt, but they are. California is almost the largest state, and a very important one. I've been in touch with the California authorities before in Paris. They are constantly looking for cooperation, for example with the Netherlands, because they now want to continue. The situation in the US is such that there is a lot of room for states to do this. Despite the fact that the federal government may want to change course, states have a lot of room to take steps in their energy policy. It is encouraging that there is also a firm intention to continue to do so. A second source of hope, and perhaps one will find that special for a social democrat, is, for me, business at the moment. Business has also indicated in the US that they simply want to continue with innovation. Of course, it is also seen that the cost of producing in a way that is climate-unfriendly must eventually be paid. That means that there will be a lot of pressure on that side too to do the right thing. Both Canada and California are in the process of organising their own carbon pricing and putting their own price on carbon. I think that's what Mexico's watching. They're all working on that. I'll be on the ETS block in a minute. In any case, therefore, there is still a movement to implement the Paris Convention. On the one hand, you can be disappointed at what is being said on the part of the federal government. It is symbolic and diplomatically regrettable, but at the same time you can see that, under the skin, in the states and in the business world, the movement that started in Paris is no longer stopping, even by the President of the United States, even though it may be the most powerful man in the world. For this reason, and that is the good news, this movement, which was so wonderfully established in Paris, is simply too strong. Mr Madlener criticizes what is ahead and he is actually fighting science. I do not know if Rockanje can now be counted as the Rust Belt of the Low Countries, but it seems that I hear Mr Madlener speak in this way. I'd like to summon him: come out of your denial. The facts speak for themselves. I think it is important to note from a cost-efficiency point of view that it is better to be there on time with good policy than to have future generations pay the price for ignoring the facts as they are now. That would be a really bad kind of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u127	Let's make a correction. I regret that the Secretary of State has chosen to reply to me in this way. I have raised a number of objections and raised a number of questions. Now the Secretary of State is going to make me look like a denier in a very lame way. I'm sorry to hear that. I was just trying to say that climate science is still in its infancy. There are still a lot of questions, not just with me, but with a lot of scientists. If we ignore that, then the thinking stops and I regret that. It seems that this Secretary of State is also in her belief that she believes that I should speak in this way. In doing so, she does very little for many people, including the scientists I mentioned. The Secretary of State says that a movement has started and that it will all work out, but we have a climate treaty ahead of us. The cabinet believes that this is a balanced treaty, but if there are dominos there, even if they are just a few states in America, there will be consequences. The Netherlands always keeps its agreements very well, unlike a lot of other countries. If parties drop out, it could lead to a loss of prosperity for the Netherlands, a deterioration in our competitive position. The VVD says: no matter what happens in the world, Europe goes on and we are loyal to Europe. That's what worries me. If China and America do not deliver half of what they promise here, and if Europe does everything with the Netherlands first, then our prosperity may disappear. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u128	These scientists have been debated for a very long time, but the particular feature of the Paris agreement was that 195 countries in the world seemed to agree with all those scientists that there was indeed a problem coming towards us, perhaps one of the greatest potential catastrophes of this century. You can say that there are other evidence, but if you look at the reputation of the scientists who speak about this and if you just look at the facts, you will find that those facts are not on Mr Madlener's side. Then there is the competitiveness of the Netherlands. I am pleased that Mr Madlener is concerned about this. I would like to say to him that the most important pillar to keep the Netherlands competitive is to ignore its own electoral programme. The Netherlands is an open society. We are quite dependent on trade with countries around us. The 'close borders' adage, known to Mr Madlener, is the best way to put the Netherlands' competitive position at risk. Mr Madlener is happy to challenge in the debate. I think it is good to discuss this with each other, but then Mr Madlener should not blame me if he gets an argument back from time to time. I take Mr Madlener's words seriously. The Netherlands makes a contribution out of conviction, because it is in the Dutch interest to combat climate change. We are well below sea level and we will have to invest more and more as a country if global warming is to result in rising sea levels. Even now, we have to invest billions to literally guard the delta against the water. I am very much prepared to engage in this type of discussion with Mr Madlener, but then I will give him a mirror. If he looks in there and says he thinks I'm faint, I say no, you have to look at what you're bringing in. Every once in a while, I'm gonna give you some rebuttal. Mr Madlener is perfectly capable of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u129	Yes, I certainly can handle that, but in a climate debate to criticise our election programme, I find it a real surprise. Anyway, the Secretary of State chooses that. In this context, I can only draw attention to the achievements of this cabinet over the past period. And then I have to say that the Netherlands has not done very well at international level. Our unemployment is still high. There are going to be many more election debates, in which we will gladly explain again the blunders of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u130	Now I'm getting the doom of the alternative facts in mind. Mr Madlener challenges me to discuss many other things with him. We have seen a spectacular drop in unemployment rates lately. Fortunately, we are doing well in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u131	That doesn't mean all people already have a job. Maybe I can say a few words about what Mr Smaling said on that point. Mr Madlener is right that the energy transition we face will have an impact on many ordinary people. The people who now work in the coal industry, for example, obviously see that this change means something to them. So the climate issue is not only an environmental issue, but also a social one. It is also a question of whether we will continue to offer new prospects to all those people who are now finding their jobs in forms of industry that are about to change. What does the commitment to innovation, to which Mr Madlener also wishes to go, mean for employment? What does it get in society? The climate issue is therefore not only an environmental issue, but also an economic one and certainly a social one. I'm getting to my second block. This is about the emissions trading system and the carbon price as a basis for accelerating towards renewable energy in the most cost-effective way possible. The Netherlands is actively involved not only in global climate negotiations but also in shaping European climate policy. Fortunately, the commitment of the Netherlands and the European Union to this climate policy is broadly in line. We are currently negotiating on 28 February 2017 a very important Environment Council on the ETS. Mr Smaling asked if we could make it through the ETS in order to achieve the goals of Paris. No, not with the system as it is now. The current proposals are not enough. That is why we in the Environment Council are also discussing a so-called review clause. This should make it possible to strengthen the directive if the contributions submitted under the Paris Agreement are also strengthened. It is important that the ETS, as it were, should move along with what the agreement deems necessary. What is the latest state of affairs? We now have the Maltese Presidency and we intend to reach a general position in the Council at the June meeting, i.e. before the summer. In the meantime, we are committed to a tightening-up. The focus is, as we know, on carbon leakage and tackling the surplus of emission allowances, because what is not in the system needs to come out of it. It'll make it more effective. Mrs Mulder asks how I look at cooperation in North-West Europe. It's important to say a few things. In a general discussion I have spoken carefully about a plan B. We really need to ensure that this is the best thing we can do if the ongoing negotiations in the EU are successful. My ideal picture is that we need to go worldwide to linked systems between Europe, which then has a functioning emissions trading system, all those states in the US that work with it and China. China is now experimenting with ETS-like systems in a lot of places, but the intention is, I understood in Marrakesh of the Chinese negotiator, to roll it out across the country. So China is not going to take any steps backwards. In fact, China is now moving forward. It is important that, if they do so and we in Asia may find more allies, we do not leave our own system. At the same time, it's necessary to keep thinking about what you're doing if it doesn't work out. I think that's important. I would say to Mrs Mulder that you need to think about cooperation in particular within North-West Europe, because the economies of the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain, France and Denmark are very closely linked. If you wanted to do something with each other, it would be most effective to do it in that context. I believe that we should continue to focus on this ETS in order to ultimately be the most effective globally. But if, for some reason, it does not succeed in getting it off the ground in a European context and steps have to be taken to ensure that it does work, then we need to think about a Plan B, if necessary a kind of outboard engine that will enable us to move forward through North-West Europe. That is not the case at the moment. First of all, also in February, we are fully committed to improving the present system. We've been asked about the storage of CO. Mr Dijkstra spoke about the top layer. Can we count it for the non-ETS target? Member States must first ensure that the amount of land and forest capture improves or at least remains the same. Additional carbon capture in soil may be counted to a limited extent for the non-ETS reduction target, but this option is limited to ensure that Member States achieve their emission reductions in other sectors as well. This is again necessary in order to stay on course and achieve long-term targets in a cost-effective way. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my last block, which has very different elements in itself, particularly in the national field. Mrs Ouwehand says that we must also have a long-term vision. I very much agree with her. With the Energy Agenda, the cabinet has also outlined a clear long-term perspective. We send on CO and we opt for a gradual and timely transition in the Netherlands. This simply involves several measures: the continuation of the roll-out of wind at sea and the phasing out of natural gas in the built environment. All this has been included in the Energy Agenda. Civil society organisations, co-governments, citizens and businesses can also build on this. The Energy Agenda is further developed in transition paths per energy functionality. Mr Smaling and others asked what it is like to steer CO and what it means for objectives such as energy saving and energy sustainability. The cabinet has already announced, in my view some time last year, that we are focusing on CO reduction as the sole goal. But I would like to add that renewable energy production and energy saving are extremely important means of achieving that CO reduction objective. The reason is that there is a most efficient mix of renewable energy and energy saving, but at the moment we are not really sure how and how fast technical and economic developments will go. This doesn't necessarily give you the optimal mix. Pre-setting targets for renewable energy and energy saving can result in an unnecessarily expensive energy transition. On the other hand, I sometimes think it is almost semantic, because the vision of the future for the Netherlands is of course that we are probably going to let the North Sea be the largest wind farm in the world. That is what we need, because we are sure that we need ten times that of those five huge parks that are already going to be there, to become truly independent of fossil energy in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u132	I see Mr Vos wants to interrupt. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr President, it is simply a very important subject. We had an extensive exchange of views with the Prime Minister on this matter two years ago when he presented the Dutch position at European level. ECN and PBL then investigated this threefold objective. ECN and PBL then concluded that, contrary to what the Secretary of State says today, it is indeed possible to calculate exactly what the optimal mix of savings, renewable energy target and CO reduction is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u134	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u135	I would like to point out to the cabinet once again that the divergent path it has taken in recent months is not in line with the successful line that has led to all the successes that have been achieved. The Secretary of State quite rightly recalled it. I would like to put the following question very openly: look at it very carefully, Secretary of State, because I think it is better and better than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u136	Again, capturing yourself on a goal as a focus does not mean that you have the resources completely out of the picture. In fact, aim and means must naturally go hand in hand in the most ideal relationship. We know that wind at sea makes a very important contribution to reducing our CO emissions for the Netherlands. We also know that innovation, for which all the spokesmen have argued, is a much bigger and more compelling process than we already intend to do. We can, of course, look at everything open, but earlier, I believe, in October last year, a letter from Minister Kamp on behalf of the cabinet went to the Chamber in which we broadly corresponded with the Chamber on this issue. In practice we are very much in agreement, I think, but you must, as several experts have pointed out, have an objective on which you focus, especially if you want to achieve the transition as cost-effectively as possible in view of the developments that are going on very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u137	Again, that letter from Minister Kamp departed from the earlier reports of ECN and PBL, reports that have been carefully prepared on the occasion of motions in this Chamber. The letter also differs from the position of the majority in this Chamber. That's where the cabinet sits, which is just wrong for me, if I may put it a little more clearly. It took a wrong turn there. I am not going to play that out, because the Secretary of State is quite right to say that we have achieved fantastic successes with renewable energy and wind at sea. But that was thanks to the very good policy that we all had put in place. I would like to give it to the Secretary of State once again: look very carefully at that, because there really was the wrong turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u138	I do not think we can agree on this point at the moment, but we agree on the long-term objective. There is one thing we must bear in mind: at the end of the day we simply have to go down with our emissions, point. That's the point. That is also what we agreed on in Paris. Then there are a lot of different ways to get there. I have already said that all these ways must be put in place, especially in the Dutch situation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Smaling and Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether we are going to set out a route for the energy transition and whether we are going to draw up policy packages. In response to this, too, I refer to the Energy Agenda. This is an ambitious long-term perspective, which is further developed in transition paths per energy functionality. We do so in broad public consultation. This means that a next cabinet can make choices and shape the energy and climate plan that the Netherlands will shortly submit to the European Union. I say to Mr Smaling that we are indeed looking at how we can achieve a line without shocks, as gradually as possible. The final composition of these packages is up to a new cabinet, but we are preparing a great deal, including in the information to the Chamber and the Cabinet, so that all this can be done, because that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u139	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. I think it is very important that a next cabinet should be able to start quickly and that it should be done in advance. Where I think there really is a gap that we have not had enough debate and choices about so far is the heat transition. We have already talked a great deal about the energy transition, but I think the real challenge is still the heat transition. Perhaps that is also an issue that we should resolve in a decentralised rather than central way. I would like to ask the Secretary of State for further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u140	I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that this is indeed a huge task. Moreover, we are in the cabinet talking to the local authorities and others at a so-called heat table to further develop this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u141	That heat table is new information for me. I'd like to stay informed. I do not think that the Secretary of State needs further encouragement, but I also very much like to see the choice packages for the new cabinet in this area. What steps can we take? What is needed to help citizens, neighbourhoods, businesses and municipalities at local level to continue this transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u142	Sure. I agree. This is a hugely complex task that is going to require a great deal. There has just been talk here about lifestyles and their preservation, but things are going to change as well. In the long run, people don't cook on gas anymore. That's what we have to say to each other. Such changes will be made, but I can tell from experience that cooking on induction for all kinds of reasons is really fine. It helps if we bring people into the information system. We will do that with the fellow governments; so did Mrs Dik-Faber. We're definitely taking them with us. They're at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u143	I very much agree with the Secretary of State that we should live differently. I think it is good to stress that that should not be anything negative at all. It has not been said at all that this would lead to a deterioration. However, climate policy threatens to narrow rapidly to energy policy, while we will have to make fundamental system changes in order to make society fully sustainable in the long term, as the Plan Office for the Environment has already indicated and as the motion for a resolution also states. This requires a strategically coherent package. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. She knows that from me. Let me make one suggestion: on the energy needs needed to import soya for the Dutch bio-industry, we can make 5 million Dutch households run. This element will also have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u144	In the end, agriculture will certainly be dealt with as well. We can already see that, because the PBL has also looked into this. In the non-ETS sectors, there should also be simply a reduction. That will lead to sharp choices in the future. So I agree with you. I also agree with you that you should not run away from that. The good thing is that, at European level, we will have room to choose where to land the 'pain'. I also agree that this does not always mean a negative change. Let me give you the example of the zero-on-the-meter house. I've been to those properties. People get a climate-neutral household while at the same time seeing their energy bill drop and living comfort improve. That's the challenge. How do we ensure a large-scale change in such an area? Much will have to be done in the Netherlands. We will have to commit renovation to energy saving and to reducing the costs for citizens. At the same time, we will also have to keep the rents affordable. It's not easy, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u145	We are broadly in agreement. I do not want to have the debate today on all the measures that are needed, because ratification now is very important. However, I would remind the Secretary of State once again of the momentum she has. There are almost elections. You're not gonna be stuck with a coalition partner anymore. If there's one moment to outline a plan that says what's needed for the next period, it's now. The Secretary of State can prepare that, and she can present it to the Chamber that sits there, without fear of bruises or tears. I'm gonna press her to do that. She can send all the radical proposals that are needed without a penny of pain to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u146	I think we are already doing that, including for the non-ETS sectors. Mrs Ouwehand also knows the report of the PBL. There will soon be proposals that go far beyond the energy sector alone. On my own site, public transport, we will make all buses in the Netherlands climate neutral from 2025. There's already an agreement on that. The energy agreement says something about cars and energy neutrality, for example. The House is not moving fast enough, but a time has been mentioned. That falls later than part of the Chamber will, but it says so. We can use European source policy to see if we can further increase our ambitions, so that we can make savings in time again. I understand Mrs Ouwehand's message, but I think we are also working on it. I will always think about whether we can make that even more coherent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u147	I would like to point out to my colleagues the clock. This debate is scheduled for 6.30 p.m. You'll have a second two-minute term. I will then ask you to confine yourself to tabling the motions and a short response to the first deadline. I now give the floor to Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u148	In this debate what happens very often happens. It's going to be a kind of daydreaming, totally disenchanted from reality. I hear the Secretary of State about induction cooking instead of cooking on gas. The reality is something else. Because it's always about someone else's wallet. All kinds of beautiful pictures are sketched here. It can all be executed, but it just costs a lot of money. Those electric cars are priceless, let's be honest about that. Maybe they'll be affordable in the future, but they're far from it now. A house electric heating is priceless. An installation alone costs €30,000 per house. So it can all be done, but it's priceless. However, it is never about the costs, it is always about that it can and must all be done. But the Secretary of State doesn't have to pay it, or she might have a salary that goes with it. Most Dutch people, however, can't afford it at all. When are we going to look at this through some sort of rational glasses and are we just being real? Stop with all the subsidies. Stop daydreaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u149	I dispute that what Mr Madlener is saying is the reality. I think he's wrong when he says we don't look at costs. That's what we're doing. That is why the Minister for Economic Affairs said, for example, that the turning point for electric cars is probably 2035. That's because of the costs, among other things. Maybe sooner, that would be fantastic. Then you can ask, because then it's affordable for citizens. We are therefore looking very closely at these issues in the Cabinet. Even in the case of zero-on-the-meter houses, for example, you must ensure that the bill does not reach the citizen. That's very important. There are also costs associated with doing nothing. Only you don't see it right now. We will then be happy to pass it on to young people, to relatives of Mr Madlener and to me. You can close your eyes to that now, but those costs are just as good. So we're trying to make the change cost-effective. That's the cover you need. We know that if we do not do it, the costs for all those citizens, not only in the Netherlands but also in the rest of the world, will be much higher, because then we simply cannot cope with the changes that are coming towards us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u150	It always ends in vague language. If we don't, things would go wrong and it would cost a lot. But it's never made concrete. What is the Secretary of State talking about now? What costs does she mean? I have mentioned concrete examples. The electric heating of your house and electric water heating costs €30,000 per house. That's a hell of a lot of money. The Secretary of State is now saying that the citizens should not pay for that. Yeah, who did? I do not know if the Secretary of State realizes it, but the money she spends is actually paid by the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u151	Your question is clear, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u152	The money we now have to pay to make our dikes very strong must also come from the citizen. Mr Madlener is an infrastructure spokesperson, so he knows all about it. I would therefore like to say to him that you should not fool people. Because those costs pay citizens just as well, but you don't mention them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u153	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr Vos asked when the appeal ruling would follow in the Urgenda case. I had to be clear. The most clear answer I can give is: I do not know exactly. On 9 April 2016, the State lodged the complaint. It is now up to Urgenda to respond to this. The time at which a ruling will follow will depend on the time at which that reaction comes first. It then depends on when the appeal is actually dealt with. So you could say, "This is a cup of coffee." Mr Vos also asked how we deal with his February 2016 motion on a CO-tax investigation in the Netherlands. I understand that a letter was sent to the Chamber on 7 July 2016. In the motion Mr Vos asked to look at the carbon tax in British Columbia. Does this have added value for the Netherlands? The motion also asks to inform the Chamber before the summer. On the basis of a comparison between the functioning of the carbon tax in British Columbia and the tax system in force in the Netherlands, the Minister of EZ concluded that this carbon tax does not add value to the system as we now know it in the Netherlands. Then we've been asked about the innovations. What innovations are there in the Netherlands, so that we can profile ourselves on this? How can we, Mr Smaling, benefit from this? Others, such as Mr Dijkstra and Mrs Mulder, also spoke about this. Climate innovation is an incredibly important tool for achieving the objectives. The necessary innovation varies from field to field. For example, the Energy Agenda indicates that more basic research is needed in heavy industry, while heating the built environment requires innovation in particular to make existing technologies cheaper. Opportunities for the Netherlands exist in the field of transport, sustainable heating in the built environment, the application of CCS in heavy industry, wind farms at sea and, indeed, smart grids. This development is also reflected in the Energy Agenda. I admit, it's an extensive document. There's a lot in there, but so is this. We agree on that. Ms Mulder asked about the doubling of funding for innovation in the light of Mission Innovation. The members of Mission Innovation The Netherlands has also applied to double their investments in the period up to 2020. We had already launched a number of initiatives and planned additional expenditure. This was the result of the energy agreement. In this way, we have actually already met the mission innovation objective. Our proposal for participation has now been accepted and formally endorsed. The Netherlands is therefore internationally recognised as a doubler of public investment in energy innovation. Last but not least, a question from Mr Vos whether storage of CO could possibly be designed with developments other than coal-fired power stations. CO capture and storage is indispensable for achieving the climate targets. A broad application of CCS in industry is being used. The ROAD project aims to test all CCS steps in practice. Ultimately, the investment decision must be taken by Uniper and ENGIE. Those are the two parent companies of ROAD. They expect to be able to do this in 2017. There are also other initiatives in the Netherlands that focus on the use of CCS. Then you should think about the waste incineration company in Duiven, for example. This aims to capture CO on a limited scale in 2018 and deliver it to gardeners in the surrounding area. During the famous climate summit in Rotterdam on 26 October. A partnership has been announced in which 26 companies, local authorities and social parties examine the potential for large-scale CO capture, reuse and storage. Those parties come from the metal industry, the chemical industry, waste incineration and greenhouse horticulture. So there are also really other options imaginable. But eventually storage, because that's the tricky variant, is needed, especially for those who want to keep the 1.5 degree as perspective. One of the renowned scientists in the Netherlands, Mr Turkenburg, often says that. Mr. Vos and I know him, I know, both well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u155	I have run a number of points because of the time, but I want to address this point well. The Secretary of State mentions an impressive list of initiatives that are impressive. But in the end, it simply means that all Dutch companies will have to stop emitting CO if we really want to become CO-neutral. I am making a very concrete proposal. That proposal was also made today by the Christian Union and I have completed it a little further. Let's just agree that in 2040 we will put all companies at zero and that we will help all companies in the Netherlands to achieve that. Let us make a comprehensive plan for this. We really need to do that. We cannot agree a treaty in Paris and then say: there are 25 plans that we like; we are going to see how things are going and we are waiting to see if two polluting companies will finally keep the promise they have not fulfilled in four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u156	To be honest, I don't think this is a representation of my reality. We have agreed a reduction target of 80% to 95%. That's not zero. I agree with Mr Vos that huge steps must be taken to achieve this. Capture and storage of CO are crucial for the Dutch economy and industry. Without that kind of technology, we're probably not gonna make it. We certainly agree on that. We have already agreed on a number of transition paths in the Energy Agenda, but further steps will also have to be taken. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u157	The Secretary of State and the PvdA Group agree on the objectives and the way forward. But we still differ on the pace and the breadth of work needed to achieve these goals. I shall return to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u158	I'm just waiting, as always, for that to be cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u159	Very good. Then that's what we're gonna do. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed on a two-minute speaking time. Please restrict yourself to giving a brief response and submitting motions. I will be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr. Chairman. This is an important, historic moment. We have heard very nice answers from our Secretary of State. The House of Representatives is almost united on the fact that the Netherlands must also assume its responsibilities and build on them. We would like this to be done as much together as possible. I've prepared a very general motion. The Secretary of State could consider this motion as symbolic support in order to give colleagues in the House of Representatives the opportunity to express our joint desire for the treaty to be ratified as soon as possible. I know the Secretary of State is not about the agenda of the First Chamber. The House of Representatives is not about that either, but we can call her here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Paris Convention on Climate Change entered into force on 4 November last year and the Netherlands has not yet ratified the Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority to the ratification of the Paris Agreement and to do everything within its power to ensure the adoption of the law and the state law even before the forthcoming Lower House elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Ouwehand and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr. Chairman. It was a good debate. It also indicates where we stand. As I said in my first term, we must make this law a real law. Then we can discuss further how we are going to do it, how we need to do it and how we can divide it across all available technologies. The question of how to keep it affordable does play a role. How do you maintain employment? And how do you organize support? I hammered on that, too. As far as the SP Group is concerned, this whole thing has a technical component and a social component. I have a slight fear that the social component will be placed under the carpet. The Secretary of State has said that it is not, but I still need a motion to draw attention to the people who work in the fossil industry and who may not be able to participate in the new sustainable society, because the jobs in that society will be different from the jobs we lose. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition may lead to job losses in the fossil industry;]] [[Whereas not everyone affected will be integrated into the new "green" jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a vision of these issues and to make the social and financial consequences visible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I am pleased that the Chamber will agree to the law ratifying the Paris climate agreement. That was the main commitment to this debate. I'm glad this is gonna work. But fine words, even if they are laid down in laws, do not mean that we are going to do what is necessary and what we have promised. I got one pain out of it. I have tabled the next motion before. In Europe, it has been agreed to spend 20% of the budget on climate-oriented action. However, the European Court of Auditors has said that we are not gonna make it. I find it unimaginable, really unimaginable, that the cabinet says: we're not going to do it, we're not going to do it until 2020. The deal was to do it before 2020. And the Chamber lets this go on and on! If we believe that climate change needs to be stopped, I hope that we will do so in a majority, then we cannot simply put this kind of agreement aside. So here comes that one motion again! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Recalling the great need to take action against climate change and the commitments made in the Paris climate agreement;]] [[having noted that in 2013 the European Member States and the European Parliament agreed to devote at least 20% of the EU budget for 2014-2020 to climate change measures;]] [[noting that a study carried out by the European Court of Auditors shows that this objective is far from being achieved, and that, particularly in the field of agricultural and fisheries policy and rural development, there is still no change;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet refers to the review of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which will only take place in 2020, for a possible shift from budgets to climate action, thereby putting aside the agreement to allocate 20% of the EU budget to combating climate change between 2014 and 2020;]] [[points out that the European agreements on combating climate change must be complied with,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. The first motion deals with the consequences of the climate agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that at macro level, the Plan Bureau for the Environment and Energy Centre Netherlands indicated a range of financial impacts that could result from the Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas the Court should always be able to make an integral assessment of the material and intangible effects of a measure on a specific group or sector in society;]] [[considers that both capacity and support is indispensable to implement the climate agreement together;]] [[believes that people and businesses should continue to be able to make their own free choices on how to organise their household or business;]] [[calls on the Government to provide detailed information on all policies followed by this Climate Agreement as to the total material and intangible consequences and to whom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u164	The second motion concerns the revision of the reduction targets. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the facilitating dialogue will take place in 2018 from which an adaptation of the European reduction targets can follow;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has committed itself as a Member State to a 40% CO reduction in 2030 and 80%-95% in 2050;]] [[calls on the Government, before agreeing to a review of the reduction targets at European level, to inform the Court of what the measures resulting from that review mean, inter alia, for the house owner, the motorist, the farmer and the entrepreneur,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u165	The third motion concerns a sustainable future after the Paris Agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands as an EU Member State is associated with 40% CO reduction in 2030 and 80%-95% in 2050, but that each country is free to implement this;]] [[noting that the government has placed an important mark on the horizon with the general frameworks in the National Energy Agenda in order to achieve those goals;]] [[whereas the Netherlands, with the support and cooperation of a wide range of parties, is taking an important step in the energy transition and building on that success, even after 2023, it is necessary to go beyond the energy issue;]] [[whereas, given the open nature of our economy, a level playing field at European level is highly desirable, so that innovative Dutch companies can take advantage of the opportunities of transition;]] [[calls on the Government, when developing a new and wider energy agreement 2.0...........................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u166	I have not yet received the motions from the VVD Group, but I believe that, in all the steps we are taking to combat climate change, we are also identifying what these mean for the material and intangible prosperity of citizens, businesses and consumers. Isn't it fair to ask the other question? What does it mean for farmers, citizens, consumers and our prosperity if we do nothing or too little to combat climate change? Only then can you make an honest choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u167	That's not in my motion. I would like what I have requested in my motions. You should read it carefully. We want to know the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. My first-term contribution was clear. I don't have any motions either. We will not support this climate agreement. I still owe an answer to Mr Vos, who said that my statement on the 150 coal plants in China was not true. I based myself on a figure from 2013. I've figured it out by now. In The Wall Street Journal of 8 November 2016, I found that China is expanding its coal power plant capacity by 20% over the next three years. That is therefore a very substantial extension. I don't know if it's 150 power stations or maybe 100, but 20% is huge. It's just that Mr. Vos knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Perhaps she could give us a more specific idea of how expenditure on the Mission Innovation project has doubled. It all sounded very nice, but I have also seen figures showing that the amount we spend on innovation has been reduced. That raises the question of whether this information can still come to the Chamber. It doesn't necessarily have to be today. It may also be later in a letter, but I would like to receive that information. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional capture of CO in the upper soil layer contributes to the reduction of CO and soil fertility and offers opportunities for the agricultural sector;]] [[Calls on the Government, in the EU 2030 framework for climate and energy, to allow soil CO storage to be included in achieving the non-ETS CO reduction target, including in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the storage of CO in the upper bottom layer and the earning model for this CO storage so that this can be taken into account in the regulatory framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the numbers anyway. On January 18, 2017, a lot more recent than was said, the New York Times reported that 103 coal power stations had been cancelled. Today, The Wall Street Journal reports that coal consumption has declined. That's where the light was seen, after the VVD already saw that four years ago you have to give the party credit in the Netherlands. Trump hasn't. You haven't, but China has. There the developments go a lot better than is assumed in the Dutch Parliament. Again: the light is seen there. If you take a good look at it, you will see that it is really a very sensible course for the Chinese. Finally, I have a motion, but not before I congratulate the Secretary of State with the majority of the Chamber that I see signing up for the ratification of the Paris climate agreement, a significant step forward for the Cabinet and for all the Dutch who will live here now and in the future. Congratulations. The motion I have announced is about CO reduction in business, because we do need to dot the i's. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 195 countries have concluded an agreement in Paris;]] [[whereas the Netherlands will ratify this Convention;]] [[Whereas this results in ambitious CO reduction targets;]] [[calls on the government to examine how Dutch companies can significantly reduce their CO emissions over the next 25 years, whether through CCS or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u171	Colleagues. Let's move on. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I'll try to go through the motions in an express train. There is one more question from Mrs Mulder, which I will, of course, answer. I'll start with that. She asked about the expenses for Mission Innovation. The Minister of EZ already sent information on this matter to the Chamber on 26 May 2016. I would like to ask him to do that again, but perhaps I can refer to that. He has already explained how the funds have doubled over the past period. I say this in the context of a smaller government; you know my reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u173	I'll check, of course, but that doubling is important. Especially since I know that innovation funding has been reduced, I think it is a relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u174	I can imagine. I would then like to refer you to the Minister for Economic Affairs. After all, he is the captain: Chief Mission Innovation, you might say. I come to my verdict on the motions, first of all the motion by Mrs Van Tongeren and others. in piece No. 7. In this motion the government is asked to give priority to the ratification of the agreement and to do everything in its power to ensure the adoption of the law and the state law before the Lower House elections. This was taken from my heart. There's nothing I'd rather do than do. I am not taking over this motion because I would hope that Mrs Van Tongeren would give a signal to colleagues across the street. It would be nice if the members of the House of Representatives would indeed give this signal to each other, but ultimately it is up to the Chamber. We have done everything we can to get to work quickly and quickly. "Period," I'd like to say. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. I shall now come to Mr Smaling's motion on item No. 8. It invites the government in that motion to develop a vision of the problem and to make the social and financial consequences of the energy transition visible. I also consider this motion to support policy. The cabinet will request an ESC opinion on the social aspects of the climate and energy transition. We have, of course, also noted exactly what Mr Smaling is asking for. That's really important for the support. Several others, such as Mr Dijkstra, spoke about this. So we're definitely gonna do that. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the Old-Hand motion in part No. 9. As usual, Mrs Ouwehand is putting me in trouble. I wholeheartedly endorse the operative part of the motion, namely 'the European agreements on combating climate change must be complied with'. But at least I cannot accept all the considerations in this way. That is because they are partly about the policies of my colleagues and I cannot now assess what is going on there and so on. I have to discourage the motion for that reason and not because I disagree with the operative part. I believe that the agreements must be kept, but in view of all the considerations, I cannot see what kind of Bermuda Triangle I would go for. That's my problem with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u175	Mrs Ouwehand, would you delete all the observations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u176	No, Mr. Chairman. I understand the Secretary of State is wondering what's being said here. I think it doesn't change her opinion that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs made the ruling in the last recital. He said that we agreed to do so in Europe, but when we review the common agricultural policy, we are only going to focus on a possible shift from budgets to climate action. In fact, he says that we are not complying with the previous agreement that the European Court of Auditors is now critical of. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to have a word with the Secretary of State for EZ. That might offer a way out. Then I'll hold on to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u177	I always want that last one. The first thing Mrs Ouwehand says underlines my intuitive reaction, namely to discourage this motion. In fact, by means of a motion, Mrs Ouwehand calls on me to contradict my colleague, as it were. It can't be, because the cabinet speaks with one mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u178	I had already anticipated this. There is no request to the cabinet in the motion either. The Chamber is called upon to support the previous agreement. If the Chamber is in favour of that, then we will speak to the cabinet again. Let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u179	Then I advise against this motion. There's no route left for me but this one. Then I'll come to the motion in part No. 10, by Mr Dijkstra. It invites the Government to provide detailed information on all policies that follow from the agreement indicating the material and intangible effects. Maybe I can make a comment on that. When developing the transition paths from the Energy Agenda and also in implementing the measures to meet the 2030 non-ETS targets, we will have everything passed on to the costs and other aspects identified in this motion. We will of course send the results to the Chamber. If that's what the Chamber wants, then the Chamber will discuss it. If I may see the motion before me as a continuation of what we intend to do in this way, I can leave it to the House to decide. If all kinds of other things are brought in, it'll be a problem. The Court will have to pass on the costs. It has already seen it on non-ETS through PBL and it can also discuss it. Honestly, I think that's the most normal thing in the world. In that sense, I could leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u180	That's an interpretation of the Secretary of State. I welcome the Court's judgment, but we also ask for detailed information. I will hold the motion under review for a moment, because I understand that detailed information may go too far for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u181	I would like to know how much more detailed than what PBL has shown in non-ETS, for example, Mr Dijkstra would like it to be. If it has to be more detailed than that, we will really have another discussion. Then I'll take my judgment back and detach the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u182	I'll keep the motion as it is. I'm gonna take the Secretary of State's judgment with me, and I'm gonna think about it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u183	It's complicated for me to work with. As long as Mr Dijkstra supports my interpretation, it is up to the Chamber to decide. If Mr Dijkstra is going to ask for much more, I would advise against the motion. If Mr Dijkstra is not quite sure now, I would advise against the motion, because I do want to be sure. I don't know if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u184	The verdict at the moment is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u185	For the motion in part No. 11 is basically the same thing. Here too, we have already done so in the case of non-ETS, and we have done so in the case of the consequences and the costs. If Mr Dijkstra says that that is not enough for him, I have a problem with this motion. If he agrees with what he saw there, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u186	What I have seen so far from PBL and ECN is that the bandwidth is so wide and so abstract that I really don't know what the consequences are. It's got negative and positive returns on it. We really want more detail: by sector or even at individual level. I assume that this is too much work or that it cannot be done and that the Secretary of State will discourage the motion. Well, that's no different. But we really want to know what it means. So I'll keep the motion as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u187	I would like to point out that Mr Dijkstra, like no other, is the flag carrier of the concept of'smaller government'. With this motion, he's gonna make sure that we're gonna ask all those people who are already working, maybe even the impossible. I would strongly advise against that. We're trying to get the maximum possible picture of all the facts. We do so independently of ourselves, because we think it is important that this does not become a political story. So it's an independent story. People are doing the best they can. Predicting the future is also quite complicated, so I can still give Mr Dijkstra. It's not gonna be better than what PBL is doing right now. That's just it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u188	I'll be watching it for the next few days. I am also looking to see if we can change the wording in a way that does justice to that. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u189	If Mr Dijkstra wishes to ensure our working methods, in order to help us to understand as best as possible what the costs are, what that amounts to and what the choices are, then we will do so. If he wanted to codify that method of working, as it were, by means of a motion, what I can imagine, he should not, however, do so, because then I simply cannot embrace the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u190	I understand that Mr Dijkstra is not holding up the motion, but is still looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u191	Until then, I advise against the motion. Unfortunately, I have to do the same with the third motion, the motion in part No. 12. I'd have thought, two good ones, but one not. However, it is a disappointing harvest for Mr Dijkstra at the moment. In the motion in part No. 12 is asked to draw up a new and broader energy agreement 2.0. Over the whole governance of the Union, we will soon have to go to a climate law or an energy agreement 2.0 or possibly to a combination of cases, the cabinet has announced that it will come back to that in the Chamber. We are now looking at what is good in governance. Various opinions have been given. The WRR has said things about it. Large social companies have made statements about it. Soon there will probably be an initiative legislative proposal. So we shall come back to that. Mr Dijkstra is actually asking me to make the choice in advance for an energy agreement 2.0. I can't do that. For that reason, too, I must discourage the motion. Not that I don't think it's a good idea, but maybe there are more good ideas or there's a combination of many more good ideas. That choice is not yet before us. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 13, by Mrs Mulder and Mr Dijkstra. It calls for research into the storage of CO in the upper bottom layer and a earning model for that purpose, so that this can be taken into account in the regulatory framework. Fortunately, it is still a bit disappointing: I consider this motion to be a policy support. This can be taken into account in the development of the transition paths following the Energy Agenda. So I'll leave the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 14, by Mr Vos, is invited to examine how Dutch companies can significantly reduce their CO emissions, whether through CCS or not. This motion can also be considered to support policy. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide. It is in line with the Energy Agenda to look at this in the context of the transition paths. CCS should also be an explicit theme that is being looked at. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Maybe I can make one final comment in this second term. I started it when we were in Paris with a lot of MPs in that room. We realized then that it was a special moment. It is now. In the meantime, I have been able to pass many laws through the Chamber, to say the least, non-parliamentary, and this is by far the most significant law. I am very pleased to see that there is such broad support for this law, from left to right. Our grandchildren will thank us for that, even Mr Madlener's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-9.u192	Thank you very much. What a beautiful conclusion. It remains for me to report that we will be voting on the motions and the bill next Tuesday.
