ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the VSO Agriculture and Fisheries Council. A word of welcome to our fresh Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, who makes her debut. We have eight speakers from the Chamber and the first participant to speak to us is Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Welcome to the New Secretary of Agriculture. We would not have called her to the Chamber in an interruption of the debate on the declaration of government if there were not a current battle in progress. The Minister will have to go to Brussels on Monday to speak in a European Council, and it is on the agenda there. Glyphosate is a controversial agricultural poison, it is widely used, the most commonly used poison in the world, and it is dangerous for biodiversity. The European Commission was planning to re-introduce arthropods for ten years. Luckily, that proposal was killed. We understand that the European Commission has now put forward a proposal for an extension of five years. So we won five years. But on the questions we asked the Minister, she said that although the Netherlands could agree to a shorter admission than those ten years, it was not yet very clear that it would really be a maximum of five years. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[invites the Government not in any case to approve an extension of the authorisation of satsumas for more than five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar, Mr Moorlag and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1059]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	Something remarkable has happened. The European Parliament voted on a resolution which also calls for the phasing-out, limitation and phasing-out of the use of the product within five years. And what's the remarkable thing? Even members of the CDA group there, Esther de Lange and Lambert van Nistelrooij, voted in favour. There is a little wisdom here in this house: if on agriculture the CDA and the Party for Animals can find each other, then the debate is actually ready. So I'd like to ask the Minister to give me that signal of... Oh, there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	That wisdom applies in the House of Representatives. Don't try to pull her wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	Well, that's too bad! If we move together, albeit in Brussels, and if the CDA, together with D66, the Christian Union, the Party for Animals, GroenLinks, the SP and the PVV, is for something, then you should not let such a moment go. Only the VVD and the SGP were opposed; they are actually alone in this debate. So let's go see each other. I have a motion to the Minister to keep as much agreement as possible with this good cooperation. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[calls on the Government to use restrictions on the use and phasing-out within five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar, Mr Moorlag and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1060]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Grashoff from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to welcome the new Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Congratulations on this wonderful role. And right away in such a weird VSO roles, that's a bit crazy. I have two motions. I would add that I am more interested in the Minister's possible commitments than in the vote on the motions for resolutions, and that I am also prepared to hold them if the Minister would need more time to see whether or not these motions could find any mercy. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the use of arthropods for environmental and biodiversity purposes should be reduced rather than increased;]] [[noting that it is essential for policy-making to understand the use of arthropods in agriculture, other professional uses and private use;]] [[noting that currently inadequate and annual monitoring of the use of arthropods is carried out;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with research bodies, to set up a monitoring programme to provide an adequate picture of the use of arthropods in agriculture, non-agricultural professional use and private use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent research carried out by a group of international scientists led by the Wageningen University indicates that]] [[Whereas the Chamber on 13 June 2017 the Grashoff motion c.s. in piece No. 384 (27858) called on the Government to introduce additional national measures to further prohibit the use of fertilizers outside agriculture and to limit their use within agriculture as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to limit the use of arthropods, with quantitative objectives and a clear timetable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Futselaar, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1061]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1062]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	At the last, the operative part, let me explain. I'm looking for an analogy with the way antibiotics have been handled. At some point, it was very clearly agreed: we are making a plan and we are also linking a goal to it and a timetable; we want to use so much less in so many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr Geurts from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. It is a pleasure for me to address the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality here today. The implementation of the coalition agreement, which puts our farmers and their families back into their power and offers a future perspective, is the subject of the budget. Today, I would like to focus on one point: the European authorisation of the substance. In the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber, she indicated that she would agree to a compromise proposal from the European Commission. The CDA considers that the opinions of EFSA and Ctbg, our independent authorisation authorities, should be followed. They shall assess whether and under what conditions the use of a substance, a product for a particular crop, is possible. The cabinet policy is also that advice from the Ctbg is leading; we have heard that the Prime Minister can confirm this afternoon. That is why I would like to hear the Minister's comments: why does she now deviate from these opinions in the compromise proposal? Is the change of position in line with the other Member States which previously supported the Commission proposal? Are there also Member States that stick to the previous Commission proposal? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. Then there is Mr Futselaar of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Agriculture Council's preliminary discussion is certainly the political highlight this week, I think we can all see. In that context, I would also like to congratulate and welcome the Minister. I have to say, when I look at everything that is still unclear in the government agreement on agriculture and on which different interpretations seem to exist, we will often meet here. Now it's specifically about pomegranate. That is something that this Chamber is often concerned about and on which opinions differ. Several motions have already been tabled. I've been wondering what I'd do. For example, Mrs Ouwehand has tabled a number of motions under which my name is stated and which are excellent. However, experience has shown me that this Chamber is very reluctant to give a clear mandate to the Minister to Brussels on the issue of satsumas. So I have chosen to make a motion that gives a vague mandate to the Minister in the hope that there will be a majority for it. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the new cabinet took on the promise to implement "the greenest agreement ever";]] [[Whereas recent studies by the University of Wageningen and the University of California raise serious doubts as to the potential harmful effects of the use of arthropods on humans, health and biodiversity in soil and water;]] [[noting that the pesticide is found in 45% of European agricultural land;]] [[noting that the European Parliament, by a majority, also rejects the ten-year extension of satsumas;]] [[calls on the Government to turn its green words into green deeds and therefore, in further negotiations at European level with regard to arthropods, to advocate a phasing-out strategy for green plant protection products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1063]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, the warm congratulations on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to the new Minister of LNV. Today we're talking about pomegranate. I do not have a motion on this, but I would ask the Minister to go into that more specifically. I want to make a comparison: that's a positive comparison with what happened with antibiotics. Antibiotics have been used for a long time as a growth promoter in general and not as a medicine. Over the last few years, the sector has been developing beautifully. We can be very proud that the use as a growth promoter has stopped. Because we are now using it again for what it is meant to be, the use is very reduced. The Prime Minister said this afternoon: plant protection if there is no other way. But does it fit to spray the grass to death on meadows and then put cows on it? Does it then fit to spray the fields clean before sowing? Does it then fit at all to use systemic substances on a large scale as fertilizers? The large-scale application of arthropods destroys more than we like. Like doing antibiotics with our bodies, it also kills good bacteria and fungi in the soil, which also gives the soil less protection. Will the Minister therefore give a concrete undertaking that she is prepared to move with the sector to use plant protection products exclusively as a medicine and not to use them more systematically, as has happened with antibiotics? In addition, we expect the Minister to support the European Commission's proposal to allow turnkey only for five years. This would be a major improvement on the previous position and could therefore count on the support of D66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u15	I hear Mr De Groot pleading against the systematic use of the drug. In doing so, he suggests that farmers and gardeners use this medicine haphazardly and without arguments. Could Mr De Groot please explain this to us? I believe that we have very strict rules and very strict conditions for the use of plant protection products. We do not call them "plant protection products" for nothing. They must therefore be used carefully. I think that Mr De Groot is really pushing the sector into a negative angle. Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u16	Oh, yeah. I also gave an example of this. Before tearing grass, it is often treated with satsumas. It's okay by the rules. You can even put your cows on it. But the question is: is that what the cure is ever meant for? The product is intended for plant protection, as you rightly point out. We are now using this medicine systematically on a large scale. You can do all that, but is it okay? That's the question, especially if you compare what we've ever done with growth promoters. If you then link that to the recent study of Professor Gijsen's University of Wageningen, which shows that the degradation product of pebble AMPA is much more common in our environment than we thought, then I think you should say: let's be economical with plant protection products and use them for what they are intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u17	Good. Shortly, Mrs. Lodders. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u18	I am not going to discuss this, but once again, I think that Mr De Groot is really failing the entrepreneurs and I am abandoning it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u19	That's not a question. Mr. Geurts just a moment longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u20	I've got the specialist on pomegranate sitting next to me. If these conditions were to be imposed at any time, would Mr De Groot be in favour of the admission of satsumas for an unlimited period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u21	Look, you need the resources out there. The authorisation of the substances is the subject of EFSA. That's what we're talking about right now. That's five years now. The Minister and even the Prime Minister have also outlined that we must only use plant protection products if there is no other way. The base is just a healthy soil. Then come non-chemicals and then plant protection products. Of course, there will have to be enough arsenal to have a good medicine cabinet, but you shouldn't sprinkle the medicine in a preventative way. That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Lodders from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Safety on her appointment to this very fine office. I am doing so personally, but I am certainly also doing so on behalf of my group. We very much look forward to working together on this dossier. It's a wonderful file. I really don't think there's a better post. I dare say so. I wish her every success. Mr. Chairman. The Agriculture and Fisheries Council seems to be dominated solely by the authorisation of satsumas. I think it's a very important point. My questions have actually already been asked by Mr Geurts. We have read in writing that the Minister has indicated that she is following the European Commission's proposal. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is government policy still the way we have discussed it with each other in recent weeks? In other words, is the first preference still a ten-year authorisation, in line with the opinion of EFSA and Ctgb, the scientific organisations? My group believes that if there is insufficient support for this, the European Commission's proposal is best for the second time. We in the Netherlands should say 'yes' to that. But I am also committed to being able to follow that, particularly because of the advice of those independent organisations. Mr. Chairman. I have half a minute to speak. At that time, I would like to make one more plea that we should deal very carefully with the authorisation of plant protection products. I would like to say to Mr De Groot that a great deal has been done in recent years, precisely in this integrated approach to plant protection products. I therefore regret that Dutch agriculture and horticulture are being pushed into the corner in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you. Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, many of my group's congratulations on this wonderful position you have been given. It's a nice wallet. I look forward to working together. We also wish you much blessing in the fine office you are allowed to perform. Mr. Graus, I hear what you're saying outside the microphone. Maybe it will be included in the report!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u26	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u27	I would like to express my thanks for all the answers we have received in the written consultation. It was very clear. I would like to highlight two more points. Firstly, sustainable soil management. I read that the Minister wants to investigate the potential and possibly the value of capturing CO in soil. I'm so happy about that. We have already drawn attention to this in Minister Henk Kamp's office. This minister wants to continue. I think that's excellent. The second point on sustainable soil management is that we welcome the Minister's commitment to greater use of prevention and green crop protection, in order to continue along the path of integrated plant protection together with the sector. That seems to us to be a good thing. The most important issue at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council is undoubtedly. The Minister would now like to endorse the European Commission's proposal to extend the duration of the five-year extension. My question is whether the Minister can confirm that this does not affect the scientific opinions of the Ctgb and EFSA and that it chooses the European Commission's proposal so that we can get a majority decision in Europe and also get clarity for our farmers quickly. Finally, Mr President. I wish the Minister every success in her first Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u28	One more question from Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u29	Can I make it clear from Mrs Dik-Faber's remarks that she broadly supports Mr De Groot's speech on the application of satsumas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u30	I have seen that in recent years the sector has taken responsibility for the application of fertilizers. This is not just being spread over the country; these words have already been mentioned in this debate. We are really looking at how we can apply it as precisely as possible. The path of integrated plant protection has already been set in motion. First you need to see what you can do preventively and what you can do with green resources. Only in the last instance do you use chemical plant protection. Further steps can be taken in this regard. That's what the sector wants. There's a 2030 plan. Let us now, together with the sector, see how this plan can be further developed. In this respect, I think that Mr Grashoff and I can also agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u31	Very nice. You agree. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Dijkgraaf of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, in the context of a possible trade agreement with Mercosur countries, France opposes the European Commission's proposal to exempt 70,000 tonnes of South American beef from import duty annually;]] [[calls on the government to promote a level playing field for agricultural sectors which now and in the future have a higher level of environmental and animal welfare compared to Mercosur countries and which cannot recoup the associated costs in a common market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1064]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u33	I have a brief question for Mr Dijkgraaf. There will be another AO next week to prepare for ISD Trade, where this subject is a little more extensive on the agenda. My question to Mr Dijkgraaf is whether he is prepared to hold this motion up to and including that AO. We also have a number of questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u34	I can imagine that question. It is a bit unfortunate timing, but on Monday the Agriculture Council will take place at the same time, wherever this subject is on the agenda. Hence this motion. Otherwise, I would have done it later. Perhaps the Minister could take on board her views in her response. If she operates on Monday in line with the motion, I have less trouble with that than she says she doesn't see anything in it. Then it's gonna have to be tonight. I'm trying to be flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u35	We don't always hang out together, but in this case the SGP and the Party for Animals do. We see the objections of these free trade agreements to our agriculture. The Animal Party sees the line that you should not want that free trade agreement if it has adverse effects on agriculture and that you do not have to compensate for all the disadvantages for Dutch and European agriculture at taxpayers' expense. Is that what the SGP means by this motion, or does it say that it is okay with her if those import levies go off, and we are going to repulse to compensate for the disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u38	"Mr. Chairman," I'm used to saying "Mrs. Chairman" all day long. I think it's crystal clear. There's never gonna be that compensation if you're even gonna argue about it. The only discussion is whether you're going to open the borders if there's a level playing field. Or else not as far as I'm concerned. As with CETA and the like, we'll find each other there again. That is also a good thing, because I believe that we are regularly opposed to the agricultural dossier. So if it's possible, we should try to find each other. And now D66 is getting worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yes, Mr. De Groot. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u40	You are aware that Mercosur-like agreements in this case also include agreements on standards and standards and that you cannot therefore say beforehand that the requirements are lower there? That's a question. I would also suggest that the motion be retained, because this also concerns the competence of the Foreign Trade Minister, and I can imagine that this Minister would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u41	The last point is a repeat of Mrs Lodder's question. I think I have given a clear answer to that. On the first point, I say: yes, of course, that is what trade agreements are about. This motion actually says: make sure those conditions are the same. That's the idea. I have no problem with a trade agreement; it has helped us as a small, open economy. I would therefore prefer more trade agreements, but it should not be the case that you conclude trade agreements with countries where the requirements are lower. Finally, of course, I would like to extend a warm welcome to the Minister. I must confess that in an interview I said "our Carola."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u42	That's a little too amoral.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u43	That is a little too casual, especially for this report. So I will not repeat that here. The fact that I said that indicates that we are looking forward to working together. Of course, we will criticise where necessary. The Minister's only gonna want that. But with the text in the coalition agreement, I am glad that she is in this position. So I look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u44	That is all in the report. So much for the Chamber's term. I understand the Minister can answer immediately. That's something we love very much. I would point out that, in any case, we will continue with the General Reviews at 8.25 p.m. This is always a very good trick of mine, because then people think: oh, I have to eat, so let's keep it short. That is indeed my suggestion. If you still want to taste the quality of the members' restaurant, let us keep it short and pointy. Because we will continue with the General Reviews in half an hour and a minute. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the Chamber, because what is more beautiful than to be able to have the first debate with the Committee on Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality? I also look forward to a nice collaboration. We will not always agree with each other, but at least I hope that we will have had a good debate. That is what we are going to start with today, on a subject that is very sensitive and very important. This is of dual importance: the importance for farmers on the one hand, and on the other hand, our environmental requirements on the other. Along these lines, I would like to introduce the answer, perhaps to give a little more context on how I look at the motions tabled and the questions. Mr. Chairman. Plant protection products are not simply used; they are used to ensure that bad things are fought, but also that we have good production. This production ensures that all of our mouths are nourished, I stress that only a little bit more. At the same time, we must reduce the environmental burden on the use of these resources. These are also agreements that we have made in a European context. The cabinet also tackles this issue, together with the sector, I add. Mr. Chairman. My view is that I have heard a number of colleagues say it, or some Kámer members say it is getting used to, and I am sorry that we have to move towards more integrated plant protection. That is what we will be committed to in the years to come. This means: first focusing on prevention and monitoring, then on non-chemical measures and, finally, on the use of plant protection products. That is the line the Prime Minister set out this afternoon. I would also like to stress that many growers already work in this way. It is important that the sustainable, non-chemical alternatives and the low-risk plant protection products also become more widely available to our growers. I am committed to this both at European and at national level. In the meantime, I also think it is important for the sector to have clarity so that growers can get to work on the transition and know what the rules will be in this area. I would also like to stress that scientific studies are the basis for this. On scientific grounds, according to a determined path, we're going to make these decisions. I would also like to turn to the current subject of the committee: the approval of the active substance. A debate has already taken place on this subject, a few weeks ago. That was with my predecessor, Minister Kamp. In that regard, the Netherlands, and this Chamber, also agreed that the extension could be granted for a period of 10 years, in line with the opinions issued by EFSA and the Ctgb in the Netherlands. The European Commission has now come up with a new proposal. I have heard a number of Members of Parliament ask why there is now a new proposal. There was no support in the Commission for these ten years. There are a number of countries that do want to do so, but there were also others that wanted to be shorter. Several years have been mentioned: three years, seven years. On the basis of their input, the Commission has decided to present a new proposal. That proposal is an extension of five years. Before I come to the motions, I will first address some questions that have been asked, such as: why is the Netherlands going for five years now? I can be very practical about this: because it gives the most opportunity to reach a compromise. I think it is important to make sure that we now give that clarity to growers, but also that we know what we are going to be doing in general in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. On those lines, I would now like to deal with the motions. I'll do that soon, because indeed, we all would like to have a bite to eat. First of all, the motion in part No. 1059 by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar, Mr Moorlag and Mr Grashoff, who asked not to agree to the extension of the authorisation of satsumas. I think I've already been clear in my reasoning. We simply need to give that clarity to the growers now. We also make this choice on the basis of insights from science. It is based on established procedures. We will continue to follow them, and on that basis we can simply now agree to the authorisation of satsumas for five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u46	The question that still existed after the answer in the written consultation was: does the Netherlands agree to those five years, or does it have more room for itself? I now hear the Minister say that the European Commission's proposal is supported by the Netherlands for five years. In that case, I'll hold this motion for a moment. I do not rule out the possibility of another round of consultations being held on pomelos, and then this motion might apply again. Thank you for the commitment that we are talking about five years. In any case, five years of the initial ten years will be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u47	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (21501-32), No. 1059). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u48	The second motion by Mrs Ouwehand et al., the motion in part No. 1060, calls on the Government to focus on restrictions on the use and phasing-out of arthropods within five years. I think I have clearly indicated the path to integrated plant protection in the Netherlands and how we will make a commitment to this in the years to come. We're already working on that. That's not new either. But this motion calls for phase-out. I attach particular importance to the two sides of the coin, which is now simply to give that clarity for five years. This is also the subject of the Commission's decision. There is no phase-out aspect to this. That is quite clear: for so many years we will see it now. I'm attached to holding on to that. At the same time, we will also use the alternatives ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u49	I agree with the Minister. The European Parliament has asked for this: to allow up to five years and therefore to phase it out. But there is no such possibility in the admission procedure. You make a decision about admission or not, and for how long, and that's it. The debate on satsumas will take place on Monday and Tuesday. Is the Minister prepared to use the words she and the Prime Minister spoke today, but we must take steps to limit that use to less frequent, only if there is really no other way to include it in the debate on satsumas? Then we can discuss the European initiative further in a debate at a later date. Is the Minister prepared to at least initiate this discussion in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday? In that case, I shall look at the
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u50	I don't know if we understand each other exactly. It's gonna be tight. I simply do not want to create the image that we can now use to phase out this drug. There's just gonna be an admission for a couple of years. That is what this debate is about, and that is what I want to offer to the sector. At the same time, the Netherlands has already made agreements with the sector in order to achieve a more integrated plant protection policy. That's not new. We shall also mention that we are working on this in Brussels. But that should not give rise to the suggestion that we are now also going on a path of phasing-out, because that is not the case. I'd like to keep those two things clear. We ourselves are going to work towards an integrated plant protection policy. At the same time, there is now clarity over those five years. As long as the word 'phase-out' or something like that is above the market, I must nevertheless discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u51	I understand that, but I also understand the Minister that, in the discussion on Monday and Tuesday, she will at least defend the Dutch approach when it comes to this: we need to take steps to limit the use of plant protection products; we have plans for that. Then, at a later stage, we can continue to talk about whether this might get a little more enthusiasm in Europe and whether the Netherlands might have to run a few more steps faster. I'm looking at my fellow petitioners. Then I can hold this motion for now and give the Minister some room to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u52	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (21501-32), No. 1060 to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mrs Ouwehand is indeed free to hold on to her motions, but I hope I have been clear about what she can expect from me on this point. The third motion is the motion in part No. 1061. Mr Grashoff was kind enough to say that he can also live with promises. Of course, it's always nice when it doesn't have to be with motions. This motion calls for the establishment of a monitoring programme. I'd like to get rid of the picture that we don't have a monitoring programme yet. They already exist. There are even several monitoring programmes that monitor the state of agriculture with regard to fertilizers. I read this motion in such a way that we are asked to see if we can give this monitoring some more form. If that is the request, I can give that to Mr Grashoff and I would like to talk to the authorities concerned to see how we can better map it. But now, for example, the motion states that the use of arthropods is not currently adequately monitored and is monitored annually. That is simply not the case. On that basis, I cannot take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u54	According to my firm information, at this time, it is not possible to keep a record annually of the use of arthropods to the various uses, but I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to check that again and double-check it. In any case, I heard the willingness to ensure that there is proper monitoring. Of course, I don't have to ask what's already there. My information is that the monitoring is really flawed, that only once every five years is measured, for example. I'll hold my motion for a while. We'll get back to you on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u55	At the request of Mr Grashoff, I propose his motion (11501-32, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u56	In the Grashoff/Moorlag motion in part No. 1062 the Government is invited to draw up a plan of action to limit the use of arthropods, with quantitative objectives and a clear timetable. Then I shall return to the answers I gave to Mrs Ouwehand. We are already working on the integrated crop protection sector. At the same time, if it's up to us, we're going to extend the use of arthropods for five years. This motion has therefore been formulated too sharply. That's why I have to dissuade her from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's too bad. Firstly, this request is based on a recently adopted chamberal motion. We must also note that since 2011, I believe, we have been working on......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In my explanatory statement just now, I said that I see a parallel with the way in which the antibiotic issue has been dealt with. At least then we knew what our goal was for a number of years, so that there was some kind of clarity for the sector. I would like to say straight away that I will continue with this motion, but I would strongly suggest to the Minister that, in view of the extraordinary fog in this debate, we should think about a good plan of action with a timetable and quantitative objectives, because that helps not only us, but also the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u58	I would like to return to Mr Grashoff that his motion for a resolution was about non-agricultural application. I believe that yesterday the ban was applied, so Mr Grashoff was served at his beck and call. This was explicitly about non-agricultural application, but in agriculture these resources are still needed. I want to clarify this, without using all kinds of phasing-out paths and setting out concrete objectives. We have used a line to look at alternatives; I continue to emphasise that. At the same time, we must also create a very clear picture of the possibility that the means can now, as far as we are concerned, be accepted for five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u59	Finally, in conclusion, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u60	This is a misunderstanding. I refer to the motion of 13 June 2017, the operative part of which was exactly taken up in the recital of this motion. It says that the government is requested to further prohibit the use of fertilizers outside agriculture and to limit their use within agriculture as far as possible. So it was also about use within agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u61	Okay, but I think we're already on that road. I will continue to emphasise that. That's what we do with the sector. That's just what plans are for. In that sense, I would almost say to Mr Grashoff that he can simply invoke that motion and say: get on with it. And that's what we're doing; we're already doing that. Anyway, he's holding his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u62	At the request of Mr Grashoff, I propose his motion (11501-32, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u63	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u64	I notice that four of the six motions have already been held. So I wonder what will happen to the next two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u65	Yes, it was very nice, because Mr Futselaar said about the coalition agreement: we will often come to speak with each other because there are so many vague texts in it. Then he himself filed a vague motion. Well, Mr President, I think that the vague texts in the coalition agreement might appeal to him too, because that is what he himself is pursuing in his motion, as he himself said. Actually, I thought it was pretty clear. I didn't think it was such a vague motion. The operative part of the decision states that it is in favour of a phasing-out strategy in favour of green plant protection products. I have indicated the path we are taking towards plant protection products, that there are steps for this: prevention, monitoring, non-chemicals and ultimately chemicals. This is actually almost the same motion as Mrs Ouwehand's on the phasing-out strategy. I would like to endorse that and advise against this motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u66	But I am going to put the motion to the vote, if only because, if there is nothing to vote, we have to explain to our groups why this debate was actually necessary this evening. Moreover, I think it is important to send a new minister with a mandate to Brussels. Otherwise, everything stays the same. So I'm just gonna put the motion to the vote. I believe that this is an additional step that needs to be taken at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u67	But I'm deceiving the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1064 by Mr Dijkgraaf on Mercosur negotiations. This has just been the subject of an interrupting debate. France is quite opposed to it. I would like to stress that in Mercosur there are opportunities in other areas of agriculture. But I heard what Mr Dijkgraaf said. It's about the level playing field, the level playing field. If we impose environmental and animal welfare requirements on our farmers, we must also ensure that such trade agreements include that what is imported is not of lower standards. That is also the commitment of the Netherlands to this type of trade agreement. I can therefore fully endorse that part. France resists harder, so we're already shutting down a few more doors. If that's what I need to read, then I can't go along with this motion. I can go with the part about the level playing field. Mrs Lodders said: take a look, because there will be another debate next week with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who also wants to have some space here and see what can and can't be done. In view of this, I would ask that this motion be retained. I heard what Mr Dijkgraaf said. It is about the level playing field, it is not about us making other demands on imports as it is on our own farmers. At the same time, I do not want to get in the way of the Foreign Trade Minister here either. It would therefore be preferable for me to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u68	I can honestly imagine that. That debate is indeed next week. At the same time, the Agriculture Council will take place on Monday. If the Minister can indicate that she will be in line with the request on Monday, then I have every confidence in it. Then I need a vote. I know it's with the minister: a woman, a woman, a word, a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u69	Sure. You can count on it. We'll just act according to the line we've just deployed. The commitment of the Netherlands to a level playing field will also be the contribution of the Netherlands on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u70	Then I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u71	At the request of Mr Dijkgraaf, I propose his motion (11501-32, No. 1064). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions I would like to answer. I shall begin with Mr De Groot's questions. He asks: can we not make a move with the sector to stop using this systematically? I hope that Mr De Groot has heard what I said in my introduction. I spoke about the ambition that the Netherlands has with the transition of chemical plant protection products to integrated plant protection. That is also what this cabinet will be committed to. That is also the way in which this cabinet will engage with the sector in the coming years to see how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u73	That is absolutely a direction that we support. I can imagine that being made more concrete. I would also like to hear more from the Minister. You can do that in a letter. Can the Minister imagine that there are now applications of terphenyls that are generic, as a systemic agent, where we could do that much more specifically as a medicine? Can the Minister imagine such applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u74	I would also like to combat the idea that all kinds of means are being used without delay, which contain fertilizers. There are really strict demands on that. Those demands remain valid. It's not like they're suddenly gonna be lifted or something like that. On that point, perhaps, I do not agree with Mr De Groot's interpretation. But I want to continue to stress that we are all entering that transition and that that is the path that we are going to follow. How we are going to take steps in this direction, we need to identify with the sector. It is not true, however, that there can be everywhere the use of preservatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u75	Short, rounding, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u76	In conclusion, Mr President. That's not what I'm saying either. There are permitted applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u78	It's all allowed. So it's not just like that. It's allowed. The only question is whether that's the way we want to use them. The Prime Minister also said this afternoon: only if there is no other way. That was the thrust of my question, but I would like to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u79	That's also the line I've been trying to turn off. I say it again: first prevention, monitoring, then non-chemicals, as a final piece of chemicals; that is the line of the cabinet. That will also be the commitment in the coming years. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked whether we should continue with the integrated crop protection. I think I've taken the floor twenty times now. We are indeed continuing with the sector on that path. There is no doubt that we will discuss this on a regular basis. I forgot Mr Geurts' questions. Sorry, excuse me, Chairman. I didn't mean to. Those questions were just in a different corner on my list. Mr Geurts asked: why did we deviate? I've already indicated that the reason is really practical. We must ensure that a decision is finally taken at European Commission level on the admission of funds. The Commission proposal now before us seems to us to be a very promising one. Mr Geurts also asked: is it attuned? Next Wednesday will be the meeting in which all this will be discussed. Then eventually it will become clear what the playing field is. But the cabinet regards this route as a very promising one. That is why we agree with the European Commission's proposal. But I keep emphasising it: as a basis for the authorisation, we use EFSA and Ctgb. That's what we're gonna do here. Mr President, I think I have now given all the answers and dealt with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yes, thank you. You have 11 minutes to eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u82	There is an extensive menu. I hear we can take a break until 8:30. You're being beaten by the Registry itself, because it's your first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-6.u83	At 8.30 p.m. we continue with the General Reviews. We are voting this evening on the remaining motion, the Futselaar motion in part No. 1063. So we are voting on this one motion tonight.
