ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer some questions. If the Chamber then thinks that it is not adequately served, then that will be done by the Foreign Minister. It will also answer a number of questions. In addition, we have one exciting bridge: I will answer some questions about migration from North Africa, but specifically about Libya, the Foreign Minister will answer the questions. After all, he has been there and can speak with his own authority about the things that he has set in motion there. So this is how we divided it. But apart from the overlap between North Africa and Libya, there is no overlap in the answers, I think. I'm just gonna start outside of Europe, and I'm gonna start in America. I can inform the Chamber that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and myself that came out on Sunday was from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and me. That's what was above it. I can also state that what the Foreign Minister said in Question Time, namely that everything he said there was true on my behalf. We regret the action taken by the United States. The way it's written, it's discriminatory. We reject that measure. However, we are aware of the risk that, among groups of migrants and people who enter, there may be people who are planning wrong things. So we must do everything we can to ensure that there are no terrorist movements among migrant groups. We're working really hard on that, too. Why are we rejecting the measure? That's for two reasons. We do not agree with the substance; the measure is contrary to our values. Besides, he's not effective. It is a great gift that you threaten to give to our opponents if you take such measures. You will only be fighting in Iraq on the good side of the matter and will be trained there by Dutch soldiers. Every time you're under pressure from your family or your surroundings to make a different choice, you say: no, I make this choice, because I believe this is the future of my country and I support what the Netherlands, America and others in my country are doing. Then this is the wrong thing to do. So I understand the concern about the possibility that terrorists are in migratory flows and we must do everything we can to minimise that risk, but this is exactly the wrong measure. It's exactly why it doesn't work. A few specific questions have been asked on this point. How's the reception of stranded travellers at Schiphol? This is, of course, primarily a task for the airlines. Most of them have also returned. The KLM has taken care of those involved in hotels. At the moment, nothing is known about Dutchmen stranded elsewhere in the world. We continue to monitor the situation very closely. The holders of a dual nationality have been asked for. We have made every effort to obtain clarification from the US authorities on the measures and their consequences for the Dutch. It worked. Meanwhile, the United States has reaffirmed that the measure does not apply to our citizens of dual nationality from one of the seven countries. That's a confirmed message. For them, the situation is as it was before this executive order. Mr Servaes referred to a person with an alien passport who did not have access to the United States. In the context of an alien passport, a kind of passport is issued to a person who has no residence status in the Netherlands and who does not have Dutch nationality. It seems at this point that this group is not allowed. The Foreign Minister will find out about this with the United States. At the moment, however, it seems that people with a foreign passport are not admitted. We'll find out more. Mr Servaes also asked whether there was a contact point for people falling between shore and ship. He gave the example of women from Syria or Yemen who are on their way to the United States and cannot go any further. For the people who have been stranded at Schiphol Airport since the weekend, they can return with the carrier to the country of origin. To be honest, that also seems to be the most real option for them at the moment. People with a nationality covered by the decree are not allowed in the United States. This also affects people who work for an NGO, for example. People who doubt their documents or their specific situation in relation to a visit to the United States can ask their questions at the American consulate in Amsterdam or ask for consular assistance from their own embassy or consulate. Of course, for people of Dutch nationality, they can go to the Consumer Services Centre 24 hours a day. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you will allow me to comment briefly on the other questions that have been asked, because I have answered most of the questions about the executive order. One of these questions concerns the sixteen Arab countries which have been banned from entering Israel for decades. When it comes to discrimination, I and Minister Koenders do not care which country or who we address. The Dutch Government has repeatedly raised this issue with a number of Arab countries and will continue to do so. It is unacceptable that Israeli citizens cannot normally enter a number of Arab countries. There is no question of double standards. That was not the case in the past and it is not the case now. Finally, the question about the Refugee Convention. The United States is obliged by the Refugee Convention to determine the status of individuals individually. The discriminatory nature of this measure is that the status is determined by group rather than individually. That is the crux of the matter. Persons who are thus recognised as refugees may not be returned to the country to which they seek protection. That is the principle of non-refoulement. The Refugee Convention does not impose a direct obligation on the United States to bring in specific groups of refugees located elsewhere or to facilitate their return by issuing visas. This is precisely why we object to this measure, because it achieves exactly the opposite. The measure is totally ineffective and has the wrong effect. Moreover, the measure at its core is discriminatory because it is not individual but groups. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u2	In the tail, the Prime Minister made a very important remark. I was a little confused at the start of his reply, because he seemed to say that this measure was discriminatory on paper. I was wondering which mouse hole was built in, but at the end the Prime Minister made it very clear that this measure is an example of discrimination, that is its core, and that it is therefore contrary to the UN Refugee Convention. I am very glad that the Prime Minister is putting this in such a tight spot in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u3	It's great!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u4	I am rather disappointed that the Prime Minister is now taking the word discrimination against our main ally. I can't understand this. I would like to hear how the Prime Minister views the fact that Louis Asscher, the Deputy Prime Minister, and other members of the cabinet are demonstrating on the Malieveld between the Palestinian flags. Surely that can't be explained to our main allies? They are and remain members of the Cabinet, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u5	It's just a fact; if you don't test individually but judge by groups, then there's discrimination. There's no other way. I can try to keep the atmosphere right with everything and everyone and we will continue to build a good relationship with America, of course, but that is a fact that Mr Bontes cannot run away from either. Mr Bontes and the PVV say they are concerned about the risk that terrorists may also be present in migratory flows. I really do not understand that they do not understand that with the measure taken here, you achieve exactly the opposite, namely that you make the world more unsafe, that you make it very difficult for people who are fighting on the right side of the conflict to continue making the right choices. That is precisely the argument that the American Senator McCain, whom I admired, used when this measure came out. Finally, on the demonstration: everyone is free to do so. I said that to the NIS yesterday. I don't think they included that part of the interview, but I also said that in the coming weeks it will really happen more often that the Labour Party and the VVD put different accents in style or whatever. I myself am not so keen on going to demonstrations, but there is no ban on that, especially at a time when we are moving towards elections and it must be acceptable that coalition parties should also place their own emphasis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u6	Too bad the Prime Minister goes along with the left-wing story, because those seven countries had already been appointed by Obama as broijnesten of terrorism. This has now been further developed and deepened, and measures have been applied to it, but not to many other Islamic countries. So where is this aspect of discrimination? There isn't. It's a security measure. I do not understand why the Prime Minister of a liberal party, who at least pretends to be the VVD, is taking part in the left-wing story of other ministers from his cabinet who are demonstrating on the Malian field between Palestinian flags. I really can't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u7	No, but it's not so much a left or right story, it's an extremely clumsy measure America is taking. It's extremely unwise if you don't want to fuel terrorism. Such a measure does not actually look at the group individually anymore. This actually takes away the people who are on the right side of the line and sometimes have to defend themselves in their own environment, a lot of support; you give them and their environment arguments to say: make that other choice. That's why this is so unwise. It's exactly the argument John McCain used. I only have one job in this entire cabinet, and that's to keep this country safe. Now it is interesting that the discussion this week was very much about the axis of values. Fine, I am also very much in favour of doing so, but the great thing is that our values also prove to have a certain practical usefulness. The value that says you have to test individually and not on the group also has a practical reason and that is that if you don't do this, in this particular case makes the world more unsafe. So if we did what Mr. Bontes and the PVV wanted, you'd make the world more unsafe. We really need to be real about that. That is unwise policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u8	The fact that John McCain and the Prime Minister agree that this is a bad measure shows that that position cannot be a left-wing position. I agree, however, that it is a bad measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u9	But over the years, Mr Van Bommel, you are becoming more and more right-wing. We can tell by everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u10	Oh, now you have to be careful. It is a bad measure, precisely for the reason the Prime Minister calls it, namely counterproductive in the fight against terrorism and discriminatory. Of the latter, you could also say that it sparks hatred against the West. So in that sense too, it is extremely short-sighted policy. However, my question now concerns the situation in the Netherlands, namely the situation at Schiphol Airport around an older couple who stranded there, had to stay for a few days and not even had food offered; yes, a few times, but too short. This situation can arise again if this debate is not followed by the whole world, and I fear that this could be the case. I am talking about people who continue to come from these countries or people who may already be in Europe and want to fly to America via the Netherlands, who end up in the same situation. What is the government going to do now to prevent these people from receiving proper care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u11	Actually, nothing, because that really is a matter for the airlines. The message to the people involved is: do not come if you are not sure that you can travel on. The airline also does that the KLM has been able to arrange good reception at a number of times and also ensures that people can go back. This is also a task for the airline, but the Dutch Government has no obligations in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u12	Finally, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u13	We can hope that it does not get so far out of hand that larger groups will have to stay at the airport in a sort of no-man's-land without proper care. If it does, I am convinced that the Dutch Government has a responsibility in it. In any case, I will appeal to the government to do so. Let's hope together that that won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr De Roon, you need to talk in the microphone, otherwise no one will understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u16	I only have one interest here...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u17	The Prime Minister has heard my words, Mr President, but I will ask my question again. You see, people are watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u18	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u19	My comment was as follows. The essence of Trump's decree is in plain Dutch nothing but: fuck off and stay away. That's exactly the campaign language of our Prime Minister. So I don't understand why he doesn't just like Mr Trump on this decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have only one interest, and that's to keep this country safe. If there is anything I can do to make the rest of the world safer, I will make a contribution to this, but I was first hired by the Dutch electorate to keep the Netherlands safe. This measure makes the situation more unsafe. It is an unwise measure, because it ultimately makes the situation more unsafe. The measure puts people in the wrong choice. People in those parts of the world who are currently fighting on the right side of the line, would by the pressure of the environment see what America is doing? Why did you make that choice? It may well go to the wrong side of the line. Mr De Roon says that the people at home are following this. The campaign rhetoric of the PVV is that if you close the borders, it is safe with that. Of course, it's not that simple. The Netherlands is not an island. Something's going on in the world, all over the world right now. We must work very hard to ensure that it becomes more stable in those parts of the world where terrorism, for example, occurs, and that we remove the causes of terrorism there. This doesn't work. This does not help to remove the root causes of terrorism. That is why I am against this measure. He's also at odds with our values. It is very nice when our values are in line with what is practical. Very often so; here too. Mr De Roon does not make the Netherlands safer. The PVV makes the Netherlands more unsafe by being the champion of such measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u21	The Prime Minister said yesterday in a kindergarten class that Trump's measures are not working. Now he repeats this with a lot of words. No, then let thousands of undocumented strangers in uncontrolled! That'll help! With one signature under that decree, Mr Trump has already achieved more than this cabinet in five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u22	This is really bullshit. In the Netherlands we simply have our screening of people coming from outside. We have them examined all the time. If things don't go well in there, we'll improve them. That's what we've done now. Yesterday there was a whole debate on this. All recommendations are always taken on board, because it is important to achieve three things at the same time. Firstly, the numbers must be manageable. I still do not understand how many parties in the Chamber are against the agreements with Turkey. Thanks to the agreements with Turkey, the influx of refugees has fallen enormously, as has the number of people killed in the Aegean Sea. Secondly, the Netherlands must be open to refugees. We are a civilized country and will always, as long as the numbers are manageable, be open to people who are genuinely fleeing war and violence. Thirdly, you must do everything you can to ensure that there are no terrorists among them, people with wrong intentions. That is what we are constantly working on. Those are sacred tasks. You cannot give 100% guarantees, but you can guarantee 100% that you will do everything you can to prevent that. What the PVV is doing here, namely closing the borders and supporting such measures, is making the world more unsafe. You use it to encourage people to convert to terrorism. That is not in Dutch interest. It is interesting that people also see that and that they understand what the PVV ultimately achieves with this. That is the paradox of this discussion. The views of the PVV and of Bontes and so make this country more unsafe. That's what I'm gonna fight. I was hired to make sure that the country becomes safer instead of making it more unsafe under this honking horn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u23	You may respond, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u24	Close the borders: that is, of course, the only thing that helps. This Prime Minister Rutte of ours is the exact opposite of Trump. While Trump does what he promises, Rutte doesn't. Trump has made his country safer, Rutte has only made our country more unsafe in recent years by letting thousands of undocumented strangers into the country, with in between all kinds of scum, let me say nicely. There is also a positive side to the fact that our Prime Minister is the opposite of Mr Trump: Mr Trump has just arrived and after 15 March Mr Rutte is going to pack his bags.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u25	The interesting thing is that even the leader of Mr De Roon's party admits that closing the Dutch borders is impossible. We have a very open economy and are connected to the whole world. The complete closure of the Dutch borders in an interview with the Algemeen Dagblad even Mr Wilders admitted this is an illusion. Mr De Roon is one of the last to believe in that. If it were possible, you would also give a totally wrong signal to the rest of the world. You'd only stir up terror in other parts of the world. So you have a double effect. You don't have well-closed boundaries. Moreover, it is causing enormous damage to our economy. This would immediately destroy 2.1 million jobs in the Netherlands, because we have very strong relationships with other countries. You also make sure to stir up the root causes of terror in other countries. The policy of the PVV and Mr Bontes' policy on this point is totally counterproductive. I don't join the people who say "borders closed" because it's election time and because it sounds so popular. I'm not gonna do my job. My job is to make this country safe, and this is how you make the country more unsafe. Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u26	Today in the Chamber, the Prime Minister is telling us what he should have done before, both in person in the Chamber and in public. He takes very clear, clear and without detours away from the Muslimban, President Trump's decree. Finally! Good! But then, suddenly, the Prime Minister's contribution stops. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees with me that this measure by Mr Trump is iconic for the kind of policy that Mr Trump has advocated and that he has put forward loudly and clearly in his campaign. That is a policy of fear, a policy of confinement and a policy of physical, moral and virtual walls. Shouldn't the essence of that policy be strongly contradicted here in general? Shouldn't this Prime Minister make an appeal to change that policy and indicate where that policy is in a broader sense contrary to our values and those in the US?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u27	I was very much looking forward to meeting my young friend, the leader of the Group of the Green Left, here because he had a great need to speak with me on this subject. I think: here I am, and I have to do it with Mr Grashoff, whom I am very fond of. That is fine, but I hope he will pass on my sensible remarks to his leader, especially since he has insisted on having that conversation with me. Back to the question. This is classic GroenLinks for me. Classic GroenLinks doesn't miss a chance to bash America. I've said it before: there's something going on in the world. Tusk also wrote this in his letter to the informal European Council tomorrow. There's a lot going on. The election of this American president was not a standard election. Nor is there a standard president, as we have been used to in the past few decades. But we are going to relate to this new president. The transatlantic bond is vital for our security and our economic embedding. I would really like to prevent us from taking every opportunity here to do American bashing. If things happen there that we find unwise from our values and effectiveness of policies, such as last week's measure, we will say so. What Mr Grashoff wants now is that I'm going to have some sort of filippica here against the United States under Donald Trump. I am not going to do that, because it is in the Dutch interest that we try step by step to build a good relationship with the new President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u28	This is a very annoying reaction for several reasons. Let me start by saying that, of course, it is very nice that the Prime Minister would have liked to have met my group chairman here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm very fond of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u30	I would have been extremely pleased to have done so, because I would not have to stand here today. Let me make it clear that last Tuesday my group chairman was expecting the Prime Minister here at Question Time. In our group's view, it is not very chic, to say the least, to the Chamber not to come. Perhaps the President himself could say something about this once again, for all I care now here or at another time. I don't think that's something to joke about. The second point. The issue is reflected back to American bassing on the part of GroenLinks. If we haven't done one thing in the last few years, it is. We have welcomed the fact that President Obama's arrival has led to a more progressive course in the United States. If the Prime Minister didn't notice it was true here, he had parsley in his ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u31	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u32	That's not the point at all. This is not about American bashing or anything, it is about what we have seen throughout the run-up to the campaign, a sexist campaign, a discriminatory campaign, a campaign that has been racist here and there, and that we now have a president in the most powerful country in the world who has fundamental values on his back. But what does the Prime Minister say here: we must try, the Prime Minister says, to keep a good relationship with our important partner America. The best connection you have with friends is telling them the truth, I'd like to tell the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u33	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u34	I don't think the Prime Minister seems very motivated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u35	I'm in the mood!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u36	That is what you should be expressing in the debate, but I will explain it to you some other time. Because I also have a question. I am very pleased that, after a few days of pressing, the cabinet is now speaking with one voice, and that it is now clear that this measure is discrimination. I think that's very good. I had asked another question, and it is a bit in line with what Mr Grashoff says. It is more than just the measure of the entry ban. I have asked what the European Union is doing now, given the developments in the United States, including the protectionism that Trump seems to favour, our trade interest, the energy agreement, which Trump has also taken less seriously or actually put aside, and security. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister, if he has just five minutes to do so, which is the wider commitment of the European Union in the light of developments in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u37	That's the question I had left. So far, I have limited myself to the matter of last Friday's decision. I had that question and I'd be happy to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr President, the Prime Minister just said: I have now answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u39	On Friday's decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u40	Excuse me, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u41	That may have been up to me. I had three sets of answers here. A set general about what happened last week. I took care of that with this. A lot of questions were asked about that. I have two sets left on the new American government, namely trade, and that is what concerns Mr Verhoeven. He asked the same question. And the response to the letter from President Tusk of the European Council. I'll start trading. If you see how this new President relates to that subject, then of course there is a chance that there will be a more protectionist policy than under his predecessor. That is what we have to relate to. This could mean higher import charges and foreclosure of American industry. That will, by the way, be, let me say right away, first and foremost at the expense of American consumers. They are going to pay the price in the first place. The same applies to the import charge Trump intends to impose on Mexican products. It is then, of course, passed on to the cost of products in America. So these costs go to the Americans themselves, but that is a price that one probably wants to pay or not want to pay. This means, for the European Union, that we must, above all, look at how we are going to re-prioritise our trade policy. That's what Lilianne Ploumen, the Foreign Trade Minister, is doing. They and colleagues are considering how we can build alliances with other countries and regions of the world in order to bring the benefits of international trade and investment to citizens and businesses. We saw that yesterday European Commissioner Malmström was in Mexico to see whether a trade agreement with that country could be speeded up. Japan is now considering how economic relations are to be strengthened. This also has to do with the cancellation of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) by President Trump. It has to do with the Brexit. As you know, Japan has always been committed to investing in the UK as a springboard for the internal market, but now you see the negotiations accelerating. We have also seen how the President of China relates to this. He was not a partner in the TPP process, as you know, but we are now seeing prospects for the European Union to enter into talks on a trade agreement with China. I would like to make two comments. There's only so much you can do at the same time, so you're gonna have to prioritize. It is obvious to focus on the larger economies first, simply because there is no capacity to talk to everyone and everything at the same time. By the way, the British are now also running into this problem. Furthermore, in recent years, I have learned that it is important in trade agreements to make the negotiation process as transparent as possible on important issues, such as climate and labour rights, because they should all be part of it. We're working on that. There is a clear European approach to how we relate to the new American administration and the policy it seems to be pursuing in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u42	We were just discussing Tusk's statements in the debate. As is well known, D66 is in favour of a strong Europe, especially in the area of major cross-border issues. The Prime Minister has just mentioned a number of them. Safety is now, of course, in a new light. He also mentioned trade and climate. After a few years of silence and here and there, may I admit that a European solution is a good one, now hope for a Prime Minister who in the coming days is really the forerunner of a European fist, who is really going to look for a common sound instead of the division on these big issues, which are now in a different light?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u43	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u44	I've been doing that for six and a half years. I don't know where you found the hair in the soup in those six and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u45	In all the performances here in the Chamber, where it is constantly said that more Europe is dangerous and that Europe is almost tearing the liver when you have to drink it. I would like the Prime Minister to tell the Dutch electorate in this debate that we simply need Europe on this issue. We can pretend we're not every time. Indeed, the Prime Minister has been fighting for good European solutions in Brussels for six years. But in the House of Representatives a bit is always done as if it is not necessary or not happening. I would like the Prime Minister to show that he agrees in this case, as would the whole cabinet, that a strong European fist would be good now, also in the interests of the safety and trade of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u46	Now Mr Verhoeven is threatening a little bit of the image he himself has called for. That's unwise. I've always tried to keep a consistent story here. If I didn't succeed, I'll just do it again. Then I will answer straight away a question about the summit in Malta tomorrow, where we look to the future of the European Union. This cabinet is convinced that it is very important for the Netherlands to join Europe for a few reasons. The first reason is the trade, which we have just discussed, and thus the market and jobs in the Netherlands. 2.1 million out of our 10 million jobs are a direct result of the fact that after Singapore we have almost the most open and connected economy in the world and at the moment also one of the best performing economies in the world. In any case, in this part of Europe, it is absolutely number one and the most competitive economy in the whole of the European Union. The second reason is that the Netherlands is a small country. Membership of the European Union provides embedding in a structure with other countries. That in itself creates security. The third reason is that there are a few topics that can be tackled better together, such as external border surveillance and migration. We do not want a Europe that, from the doctrine of the ever closer union as a kind of mission creep, continues to move towards federalisation. We are against it because we do not believe in it. We believe in a very pragmatic approach to this project based on shared values and shared goals. Against that background, I look at the cabinet's commitment to tomorrow's talks. We want to strive for a European Union that deals with this public service that countries can better jointly than individually carry out. I have just mentioned migration, security and the well-functioning internal market. There are also major problems. We have just seen that the Commission is leaning towards France when it comes to rejecting free flow of data, which is causing enormous delays to the entire digital market at the moment. The second thing we want is a European Union based on strong Member States taking their responsibilities. One example is the Stability and Growth Pact. The promise of convergence towards a higher level of prosperity is failing, because not all countries are implementing the necessary reforms. We call for a Europe in which everyone takes responsibility within the agreements made. The third thing we consider to be very important is that the institutions of such a Europe function well: not a political Commission, but a Commission that takes up its role well and does not try to manifest itself politically. This means that it must, above all, be a guardian of the European acquis. When it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact and the implementation of refugee agreements, the Commission should call on countries to comply with these agreements. Finally, the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the Europe of common values. I very much support what Frans Timmermans is doing to Poland and Romania at the moment, because there are great concerns about this at the moment. You can then undoubtedly cut with scissors where it differs from D66. I have more of the impression that D66 would actually want to transfer much more tasks to Europe and go much more towards federalisation and strengthening the European Parliament. This cabinet is less of that. However, these differences may exist. There's no harm in naming them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u47	I suggest you finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u48	The advantage of this question from Mr Verhoeven is that I have answered a lot of questions again. There is another one with regard to America, namely a response to Donald Tusk's letter. Actually, I already gave it to you. I agree with him that, to sum it up in my words, there is something going on in the world. There are people here who say he aligns America with ISIS. He doesn't do that in that letter. I don't read it like that. What he describes are different developments in the world that require Europe to formulate a response to them. That is indeed the terrorist threat, that is the instability in Ukraine, that is the flow of refugees from Africa, and that is also the fact that our main ally, the United States, has a new government that is not in all respects a standard government. So we have to decide how to deal with it. I do not read in that letter that he, as some here suggested, aligns ISIS with America. I really can't get that out. To be honest, I thought that letter was sensible in that respect. This means that Europe has an interest in seeing how it can provide the best possible common response to these issues. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u49	I agree with the Prime Minister's response just now, including his view of the European Commission: not politics, but simply ensuring that the European acquis is properly enforced. How does the cabinet look at all the proposals that are actually aimed at increasing the power of the European Commission, with its own Foreign Minister and so on? How will the Prime Minister deal with this in Malta and at subsequent meetings? After all, it will always remain above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u50	We are opposed to this, but the Commission can make these proposals. The Commission can make proposals and they must then be politically cancelled. There is a broad front of countries that opposes this type of development and also says to the Commission: you may make those proposals, but we really are not going to do this and we ask you to put a little more energy into things that we really need you for. That is countries that adhere to the Stability and Growth Pact and ensure that the refugee agreements are implemented. These are the main tasks of the Commission, namely ensuring that the decision-making machine runs smoothly and that meaningful decisions are implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u51	That's clear. However, this has been happening for so long. We are confronted year in, year out with constantly new proposals. Has the time not come, as a Council, to call the European Commission to order once and not to continue to say that it can do so? Should the Council not once say that the Commission should stop doing its job and limit itself to doing so? Should the Council not say that the Commission should not come up with all kinds of proposals which are merely a source of concern and suspicion among the peoples of Europe? I'd like to invite you to such a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u52	The Council has no competence there. We cannot force the Commission not to make certain proposals. The Commission has its own position within the European legal framework and can also make proposals in this regard. Then these politics must be sanctified. I do not see any support for this type of proposal. The same applies to the Five Presidents' Report and the movement underneath. There's no support for that. There is insufficient support for this from the Member States, to my satisfaction. I say every time: put energy into a number of things that we desperately need the Commission to do. We are about to talk about the situation in Africa. It requires detailed day-in-day engagement with the countries concerned. Member States can play a role in this, but the Commission must also play a major role in this. By the way, she does that very much, constantly sitting on top of the ball in those kinds of processes. The Commission must ensure that the agreements on the surveillance of external borders are complied with. It would reduce a great deal of tension within Europe when it comes to dealing with the refugee issue if we were sure that we could properly control the external borders. I particularly want her to focus on that. If you ask me what I'm going to bring to Malta tomorrow, it's this kind of thought. I've been doing that for a while. Besides, I'm not alone in that. This is supported across a broad front.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u53	I am very pleased with that, and I thank the Prime Minister for that. At the same time, I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to continue to say to the European Commission: I know that I am not about it and that the European Council is not about it, but I am giving you the urgent advice to stop this type of usurpation and pretension, and just stay focused on the task you have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u54	Then the European Council must decide unanimously. That's not gonna work. A very large part of the Member States do not want such proposals from the Commission. I am reassured and satisfied with that, because that means that it is not going to happen. But I think it is a waste of my time to try to pronounce unanimously, with its twenty-eight, as a European Council that this kind of proposal cannot be made. We have no competence for it, and reaching unanimity on such a position is complicated. What I have to achieve above all for the Netherlands, and also for the sake of not losing Mr Bishop, is that we keep the Commission on track with the sensible things. I think it's working. However, I am critical of the fact that the Commission should be less of a political committee and more of a means of implementing sensible decisions. The latter also particularly affects the whole issue of the refugee problem and the arrangements around the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u55	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u56	I have a few things to say about the refugee issue and the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u57	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u58	I will continue where Mr Bishop ended up. The Prime Minister gives the right answers on what to do with the European Union and, above all, what not. So we can now agree that the Prime Minister at the European Council in Malta will ensure that we do not see this kind of text on further European deepening on the 60th anniversary of the European Union. I also understand what the Prime Minister is saying about the Commission. However, I also know that directors of the European Council and of the European Commission meet regularly. It would be wise to say to the Commission: stop it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u59	Yeah, but it's persistent. There will also be a White Paper from the European Commission sometime in mid-March or at the end of March. Assume that there are a lot of things in there that Mr Mulder does not agree with. The question is, in the end, whether this will lead to political support. To be honest, my expectation is that there is insufficient support for this, because it is really said that it is a Europe of core tasks. That is what the Commission has said at the outset, and I would like to support it in this. Mr Koenders will say a few words about his speech in which he also spoke about the European Parliament. I think he was misunderstood there, but he will explain it himself. The fact is that at the moment the European Parliament simply has less to do. That's a fact. There's just less work there. Honestly, I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'd like to come to a conclusion. As regards Mr Tusk's statements, the Prime Minister says: I have understood them so that this should not be understood as one of the threats and that this should not be understood as being in America's same line. If Mr Tusk repeats this, will the Prime Minister withdraw from it? There should not be some kind of enemy image to America, a country that we still desperately need for other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u61	Tusk is one of the most civilized people we have in Europe. The man was with Solidarnoński. He had to paint chimneys among the communists for seven years. He's a politician in the center, or maybe just to the right of the center, if you wanted to place him exactly. He's a decent. I have no doubt that he did not mean to say that the United States would be in line with ISIS. I will not answer the then question. But of course, if someone in a senior position would say that America is equal to ISIS, I'll fight it. However, I cannot imagine that this man meant that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u62	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u63	I have a few things to discuss. Questions have been asked about the Brexit. I would like to be brief about this, because we have already discussed this at other times, including at the General Affairs Council in January. During the general consultations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about this. There will be no negotiations without notification. We have heard Mrs May's speech. For the sake of time, I am not going to completely analyse it here, because we have all been able to follow that. It is now important that a notification is made. This is foreseen in March 2017. Then the other 27 European Member States will establish their negotiating position. That can only happen then, because we also need to know exactly what direction this notification is going to take and what accents the British Prime Minister is going to put in there. I will operate from the Dutch interest. From the point of view of safety, it is in Dutch's interest to maintain a strong link with the UK. If 65 million people leave the European Union, we must do everything we can to ensure that the impact of this blow on our collective embedding is limited. England is physically still in Europe. That doesn't change, I can tell. Of course, I want to do everything I can, with Bert Koenders and the entire cabinet, to ensure that the damage that this could possibly cause our economy is minimal. I did say in Davos, and I would like to repeat this here, that England does make a choice. That choice is a Brexit, where it is said that we are prepared to suffer considerable damage in our economic growth potential. That is also confirmed from right to left. All the banks and investors I spoke to in Davos confirm that they are working to find their way out of London, because they really want to stay in the European Union. This is going to cause serious damage to their main engine of the British economy. They are therefore prepared to do so in return for more control of migration from Eastern Europe. The prediction I have made is that in a moment, although they will be able to decide for themselves, the net numbers of European migration will not really be much lower than they are now, simply because they need those people at the moment, for example for fulfilling a lot of functions in British agriculture. It is therefore a very difficult decision for me to understand. But it's a sovereign country and they can do this. It is now important that we, as a Chamber and a cabinet, safeguard the Dutch interest, which is, of course, embedded in the European interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u64	Have you finished your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u65	I have a few more questions to answer. Do you want me to make it quick?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u67	As far as Greece is concerned, the Netherlands is always willing to do more. We've been doing a lot of things. Minister Ploumen has once again made extra money available to local NGOs. However, the problem at its core is Greece itself. If we're gonna do something about that, we're gonna have to take over the country. Then you must give me a mandate to take over sovereignty on those islands and then we can do something. However, this seems to me to be contrary to our values and the European idea. So it really is a Greek problem in the first place. They must now, with all the funds and resources available, effectively lift the matter off the ground. That is not happening and I share with everyone the great concerns about it. Then something about North Africa. The Foreign Minister will be addressing Libya specifically in the near future. You know our position and that is that we want to prevent people who do not have a chance of asylum in Europe from crossing the border. It is very dangerous and large numbers of people are still dying. Fortunately, the flow across the Aegean has decreased by 98%, but the flow across the Mediterranean is still significant. Moreover, there is no shift at the moment that people who previously wanted to cross the Aegean are now coming through Libya or Tunisia or Morocco. That's just not true. However, there is an autonomous flow of people, which is different from the previous time with Turkey and Syria, which have no chance of asylum here. These are almost all economic migrants. So all policies will be focused on achieving a humanitarian and decent solution to this problem in the coming day and in the coming time, naturally within all international rules. This also includes the fact that the Netherlands is willing to invest intensively in this area. We have good relations with Morocco and Algeria. You can't just copy the agreements with Turkey, but I learned one thing from those agreements with Turkey, and that's that this only goes when you're on top of them every day. You have to keep calling. We agreed last week, didn't we, sister? Then how can it be...? Sorry, I'm gonna do it right now. Okay. And then you call again the next day. That's it. If you don't do that and you don't sit on top of it and fly there every once in a while and then you leave, you're not gonna be okay. That's what's happening too much right now. That is why we, as the Netherlands, want to try to get involved in this much more intensively in the coming period. We can do that with a few countries. Maybe other European countries can opt for other African countries. Then we can see if we can get this under control. Of course, this must be done within all international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u68	I would like, with permission, to finish the subjects. I very much agree that there is a very important responsibility for the Greek Government. I would like to encourage the Prime Minister, together with all 27 other Member States, to give the Greek Prime Minister a strong voice at the summit and then to be ready to help. But let's talk about the Brexit. I share the analysis that the British are shooting themselves economically, but I am getting signals that the British diplomatic service in third countries, particularly in Asia, is spreading rumors about the position of the Netherlands and about a possible future postit. This could stand in the way of companies relocating from England to the Netherlands. I think that's weird. I also find it bizarre, because these sources tell me that this seems to be directed by the British Government. Does the Prime Minister know these signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u69	I know the rumors. That also shows how much panic there is in London, if the rumors were true. The British see that at the moment many American, Japanese and even British companies are on their way to the exit. This also shows how incredibly damaging the Brexit is going to be for the British economy. I have seen before that it has led to a monetary crisis and a constitutional crisis, but it is also a very serious economic problem. To those who ask me that, I also explain that the chance of a nexit in the Netherlands is zero, as long as I have something to say here. Only one party really argues for that. The support of the Dutch people for a nexit has fallen enormously. Why? Because people are currently seeing the consequences for our security and our economy. And yes, there is a great deal to be said about the European Union. I just did. We will have to improve the EU from the inside out and make it more effective in our interests, but moving out will bring innocuous damage to our economy and our security. Great Britain is showing that now. It's a case in point. So we know this, and our diplomats are keen on it and counter that argument. They point out that the Brexit is a fact and a nexit is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u70	Of course, I fully agree with that analysis. He now calls it rumors, but I would ask him to ask what is behind this on the British side. I don't care if he does it himself or if the Foreign Minister does. We just can't accept that. That the Brexit affects us all is annoying enough, but that they are so; we will have to deal with it. However, I would ask him to raise this by formal means and not just to treat it as a rumor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u71	Wherever it's possible, I will. At the same time, the effect will be limited. Two weeks ago, there was a big article in the Sunday Times about the financial sector, which is currently working on catching up, which will have huge consequences for London as a financial centre. It will undoubtedly remain a financial centre after a Brexit, but large US banks will move a lot of their activities that are aimed at the euro area or the European Union as a market and that run better when they are inside that market than outside. The Netherlands is, of course, one of the countries that I am proud of. We have a well-educated population, speak our languages, our children can ride a bike to school and it is safe here. We also have the best infrastructure in this part of Europe and the most beautiful airport. So I understand very well that they are interested in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u72	The Brexit is one of the things within Europe that is shifting and no one knows exactly what its consequences will be. The combination of factors: development in the United States, the Brexit, but also the discussions within the EU that President Tusk has fueled, makes it important right now that not only the Cabinet, we trust that the Cabinet is moving in the right direction, but also the Parliament is involved in these further developments. In the first term, I asked for the House to be kept informed. The Prime Minister said that the cabinet will do so in the usual way, but I do not want us to be placed at any time for whatever fact, precisely because of the support for the EU that is already under pressure. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr Koenders and I looked at each other and said: how nice that Mr Knops is here. We usually have this kind of debate with Mr Omtzigt, and that is always about how Parliament is informed. But, of course, we did not count on the credit, because he has well briefed Mr Knops on this point. This is such an important question that I'm not going to answer it myself. I would ask the Foreign Minister to deal with this in a moment. Because I don't want to make mistakes in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u74	That's fine. Office policy unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u75	And the Secretary of State can answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u76	He can get that out of his head. This debate is taking place every week with Mr Omtzigt. At the heart of the matter is that we will inform Parliament properly. Mr Koenders can deal with this more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u77	Thank you. I now turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start with the last question. Of course, this has also come to the attention of a number of general discussions with the Permanent Chambers Committee on European Affairs. It is absolutely important that the Chamber is well informed throughout the process that is to come. That is why we agreed to discuss the best way to inform each other about the whole process leading to notification at the beginning of February in political consultation with the Committee on the Chambers, i.e. Brexit. That deal has been made with the Registry by now. That means that we are going to talk about this on 7 or 8 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u79	I can only conclude that I have been misinformed by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u80	That will be in the Acts, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u81	That seems possible to me. In any case, we will ensure that we have this consultation. There is a lot at stake, so we understand very well that the Chamber wants to be involved. We must do so in such a way that it strengthens our trading position rather than weakens it. We are therefore going to discuss at a political level, with the Committee on European Affairs, the question of how we can do this properly. A number of questions have been asked to me. I shall begin with the situation in Libya, also in the light of the debate on migration cooperation. As the Prime Minister said, it is important that the summit pays great attention to the Central-Mediterranean route in the coming days. The summit will take place under the leadership of Malta. We have effectively tackled the Greece-Turkey route, but the influx through this route and the number of deaths are really embarrassingly high, too high. The Commission has now put forward proposals for concrete short-term measures aimed at North Africa and Libya. As the Prime Minister said, we need a tailor-made approach per country. Tunisia is not Morocco, is not Algeria, is not Libya, and Libya is not Egypt. The Netherlands supports the Commission's efforts to scale up a number of issues. This concerns cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard and providing an alternative to the dangerous crossing or exit from detention centres in Libya. It is therefore a question of a safe return to the homeland. I myself saw the situation in Niger a few weeks ago. It's a horror. There are young people, young men and women, who have gone that way towards Europe. They have often had to give up almost all their money, they have been suppressed by smuggler gangs, then they are beaten up in Libya and then they return. That route must be stopped. Let there be no misunderstanding: there is, of course, no question at the moment of returning refugees to Libya, because it is not a safe country. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Van Bommel. The question is, what are we going to do about making it a safer country? This means first of all that a political solution must be sought. Think about stabilisation, working with the militias, working with the IOM, working with the UNHCR and strengthening the Coast Guard, which is extremely important. That is not only at this point; it is also about arms smuggling. This was also supported by the United Nations in a resolution. We're doing that through Operation Sophia, which I think should be scaled up. The core is to stop this power so fewer people die. That is why we need to strengthen the coastguard and strengthen the political initiatives of the United Nations and of the European Union in that region. I'm gonna make that a little stronger. I will also raise this in the Foreign Affairs Council next week. The problem in Libya is complicated, but not insoluble. It is not the case that we could not take on a greater role, including in relation to Algeria, Egypt and Morocco, who are trying to keep the East and the West together through a regional solution, to put it simply. But of course there is no question of returning refugees to Libya as long as it is not a safe country. I spoke with the Chamber earlier about the different modalities relating to the Coast Guard, the IOM and the UNHCR. There are really important projects and I have seen that they work. There are also information programmes for people. Of course, these migration partnerships with a number of countries in West Africa are also trying to prevent people from going the wrong way, because they just don't have a chance to stay here if they don't run from a war situation. It is therefore about the training of the Libyan Coast Guard, which is being done, among other things, in the framework of Operation Sophia, to address the business model of human smugglers through the missions we have there and the socio-economic development of the Libyan population. We will discuss this with the Libyan Government this weekend and also on Monday. These include improving UNHCR and IOM reception facilities, information campaigns, alleviating pressure on Libyan borders by strengthening border management, focusing on alternative routes, supporting efforts by Member States that have a comparative advantage there, such as Italy, strengthening cooperation and dialogue with Libya's neighbours and strengthening operational cooperation with the European Border and Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u82	The Minister mentioned several times the UNHCR and its cooperation. He's been there. I am very curious to see what the UNHCR is doing there. I just called the UNHCR and asked: what do you think of the proposals that the European Commission is putting forward in Malta tomorrow? The answer was that UNHCR does not support those proposals to continue cooperation with the national unitary government, because UNHCR is not guaranteed refugee rights. What does the Minister know more than the man from UNHCR I spoke to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u83	You say that you have called the UNHCR and said this to you, but we are not going to send people back to Libya at all. That is not the case at all. If the UNHCR were to have the impression that this is the case, I cannot imagine it, because we are in very close contact with the UNHCR, I can say that this is obviously not the case. We'll work with the IOM and the UNHCR. Questions have been asked about detention centres, including Mr Van Bommel and Mr Grashoff. We are, of course, very concerned about this. This situation is serious not only for the refugees on the way, but also for the people who come to those detention centres. This has little to do with cooperation with the central government in Tripoli. Yes, we support them, but we can see that there are risks to them, given that, as I have just said, there are still major political differences about the implementation of the political agreement. The Netherlands is very active in this, in front of and behind the scenes. We will also discuss this in the RBZ. Moreover, detention centres managed by the Libyan Department for the fight against illegal migration are different from detention centres run by militias and where the major problems generally occur. The Germans' report is about the latter category. We don't have access to that. That's one of the big problems. That's why we can't send people back. The Netherlands, in dialogue with the UNHCR and the Libyan authorities, is calling for this to be considered a key issue at EU level. Those illegal detention centers are very dangerous for the people fleeing north. The IOM and UNHCR are so important because they work with the government and other authorities in the detention centres where they operate, so these detention centres are not run by militias. Our embassy has visited the detention centers with a relationship with the government. So we also make sure that we know what is happening. It is important that we ensure adequate protection for migrants. That's the point. The Netherlands therefore finances the projects of the IOM. These projects include the purchase of life-saving equipment, the organisation of training for the Libyan Coast Guard, the rehabilitation of shelters on the coast and the voluntary return of migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u84	There is also a second term. I notice that there is now unlimited interference. The last question, Mr Voordewind, and then I really want to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yes, but this is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u86	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is about the safety of the refugees there and about whether or not to agree to a refugee deal with Libya. My interruption was not an attack on the minister. I was merely interrupting out of interest in what the UNHCR is doing, what the UNHCR does or does not have access to, and to what extent UNHCR is involved in the plans that the European Commission has now drawn up. After all, I understand from the Dutch representative to the UNHCR that the UNHCR is not involved. I understand from the European Coordinator of UNHCR that the UNHCR is very concerned about this. What else can the Minister say about this in terms of additional explanations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u88	In any case, the discussion that the Heads of State or Government will have tomorrow will also be about cooperation with UNHCR and the IOM. We also consider this cooperation to be important. I now turn to the question of Christians in detention, which Mr Bishop has asked for. That too is one of the elements of the programmes of the IOM. Of course, help is provided to all groups of vulnerable migrants. That's where 2.5 million goes. That point is part of that problem. So Mr Bishop is certainly right: there is also a very serious vulnerability in the route to the north. The government has already talked about negative and positive incentives. We are not ruling out anything, but I am convinced that a positive approach generally creates much more opportunities for partnership. You just never have to rule out resources in advance. A question has been asked about the situation in Egypt. Given the time, I will not go into too much detail. I know MPs have been there. They know the situation, both socio-economic and demographic, as well as fundamental freedoms and human rights and the security situation. These are three major challenges for the Egyptian government. There is also pressure on fundamental freedoms and human rights. That also has to do with the free space for NGOs. It is right to draw attention to this. We also replied to questions from the D66 Group on the draft NGO law. It's another draft law. We have expressed our concern, bilaterally, in the European Union, but also in UN fora such as the Human Rights Council, about the possibility of that law becoming a reality, because I do see risks of further restrictions on freedoms in Egypt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u89	In my first term, I dealt with the situation of NGOs, precisely because it is often the case in these countries that when you wait for legislation to come, you are too late. Since the European Union is supporting a number of positive developments in Egypt, one could also say that as an extra condition we are making a point of this. The same applies to access by researchers to detention centres and prisons, from which reports of torture still come to us. Why does the Minister not want to insist at European level that conditions be laid down for the aid given to Egypt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u90	We will. If you look at the agreements with Egypt and the way in which we have emphasized the importance of human rights, you will see that this is exactly the policy we advocate. It is true that you also have to be anticipating. If a law is not yet in place, in the debate with the NGOs on the ground, and also with the local partners of the Dutch NGOs, you should talk about that draft NGO law, and be in contact with the Egyptian government. We are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u91	That is necessary. I am pleased that the Minister indicates that this is being done in Egypt, both with NGOs and with the government. 'Cause of that last one, of course, we need it. The NGOs naturally object to this in a cautious manner, because it is about their position. I have not yet heard the Minister about the prisons and the independent investigation that would actually be needed there. So I would also like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u92	The Dutch government is concerned about the human rights situation in Egypt. This means that the Dutch government is one of the most active governments on all fronts, including the NGO law and the lawsuits, their access and observation. So does she.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u93	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u94	I still have a lot of questions to ask you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize. I'll answer them very soon. I do not have to go into Romania, because the Prime Minister has already done so. We are very concerned about the situation. I have also made a statement in Bucharest, together with a number of other countries, on the issue of anti-corruption. We will be very careful to do so, because if we say something about a rule of law elsewhere, we should, of course, do so in our own house. I think we should talk about the whole future of Europe next week. In any case, the essence of what we are saying here today is that Europe is at a crossroads. This means that we must organise ourselves as widely as possible in Europe on matters where we have common interests. The Prime Minister said the same thing. That's what we have to stand for. If there are external threats of any kind, we must ensure that we export stability and not import instability. There's a lot going on. That is precisely why Europe is more important than ever. That is what Mr Tusk said. By the way, that doesn't mean we're gonna sit still. We have just indicated that, because we want to be at the heart of Europe, we are also thinking about how we can change things. And, of course, you'll be criticized right away. I will go into more detail next week about what we have said about the European Parliament. I notice that when you say something about an institution, everyone is stabbed by a bee. I say very seriously here that we will not make much progress if we remain in Europe where we stand and do not think about renewal, transparency and the role of national governments, national parliaments, the European Parliament and the European Commission. I said what struck me when I was President of the European Union. I would like to repeat this: let there be no misunderstanding that we are fighting together for better control here. Mr Verhoeven is only here to make a point because of his contacts in the European Parliament. MEPs are now complaining that there are not enough new legislative proposals. That's what I call promising. If the European Parliament really believes that it has too little to do, and that is what you will hear when you get there, then it can also be half less. I would point out that I am holding on to this, but that does not mean that I want it to happen tomorrow, and that the core is democratic control of what we do in Europe. What's it about? Much more time in cooperation between the national and the European Parliament and much more thinking about how we can show people in Europe, in our society how decisions work. That has nothing to do with anti-European. On the contrary, that is pro-European. I'm a pro-European ruler. We stand here to stand up together in Europe for our values and interests. But when you say anything about an institution, of course I immediately hear the spokesperson of D66 saying: Oh my goodness, anti-European. No, Europe shows you're changing. I would like to start the debate on the dynamics of these institutions next week. Mr Knops asked for Mr Trump's idea to end the sanctions for Russia in exchange for a deal on the number of nuclear weapons. Of course, the idea of a nuclear weapons deal appeals to me. It would be very good news if the two largest nuclear powers in the world substantially reduced their arsenal. We're talking about 15,000 nuclear weapons. However, this is linked to something it should not be connected to. The sanctions relate to Minsk and Ukraine and, given the situation there, there is no reason to lift them now. There is also no concrete proposal to reduce sanctions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Tillerson, is in favour of maintaining sanctions; at least that is what he said in his speech. I will try to identify European interests pro-Europeanly. Of course, standing for this in Europe also means that I will be in contact with the United States and my colleague Mr Tillerson on all these matters as soon as possible. Another idea of D66, namely an additional 30 million for the expansion of the postal network. If I had been here without the Prime Minister, I might have said yes. Fantastic, 30 million. With Mr Verhoeven, I say that we need a decisive and powerful diplomatic service. We invest in that. Thanks to the D66 Group, Mr Sjoerdsma, and the GroenLinks Group, we have been able to open new embassies for the first time in years in important countries where we have economic and political interests. Mr Verhoeven could have started with that. However, I do not think that the expansion of the postal network is the best response to the American President. We have good diplomats who work hard and stand in the front line. We have opened a number of posts, and I am very pleased about that. A subsequent cabinet should consider to what extent it intends to expand that diplomatic network further. There can be no misunderstanding about the settlements: we condemn the construction of new settlements. We have frustrations about that. This is a long standing position of the Dutch cabinet. The cabinet is deeply concerned about the continued expansion of Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory. They are illegal and constitute an obstacle to achieving the two-state solution. That is what the Netherlands thinks, and that is what the European Union thinks. We raised this in Paris during the MOVP. I also transferred it directly to the Israeli government. We had a good discussion with Minister Oren last week, and I raised this point precisely on this point, in addition to the fact that, of course, we continue to invest in relations between both sides to ensure that this does not deteriorate further. During the forthcoming RBZ, we will discuss how we will shape the commitment in the coming period and what a possible effective approach is. I say to Mr Servaes that we will also ask the EU to identify policy options in line with previous motions. They don't necessarily have to be negative or positive. We really need to ensure that this matter does not deteriorate further. There are still some possibilities for that. I will not anticipate the possible position of the US Government, which is still unclear on this point. It is not clear in the last report whether the embassy will be moved or whether something else will happen. Of course, we consider the situation of these settlements to be a poor development, precisely because you want to have the space for that two-state solution. This is in the interests of both Israel and the Palestinian Authority. I am very concerned about the situation in Ukraine. It is again a matter of considerable violence near Donetsk. It is not yet clear exactly what the reason for this was. It remains on both sides to fully implement the Minsk agreements. I had contact with Minister Gabriel about this last night. We will also talk about it next Monday, especially because it is so important that this does not escalate, including as regards the unclear international situation surrounding what will happen with sanctions and the relationship between Russia and the United States. It is important that we do not anticipate measures that are not based on the agreements we have made in Minsk and the sanctions. Mr. Chairman. That was my final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you. I see two more interruptions. Is there still a need for a second term after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u96	That depends on the Minister's reply in this case. My question concerns Israel's policy in the settlements and, by the way, with regard to the capital. We can already see that, with President Trump taking office on the Israeli side, the room is apparently considered free to announce major construction projects, involving thousands of homes, on the basis of the signal from America that relocation from the embassy might be on the agenda. So the Americans are giving the space and that space is being used as well. That is why it seems to me that Europe now needs to step up its efforts. Does the Minister share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u97	I don't share that whole analysis, because there are a number of elements in it that I don't know if it's really gonna turn out that way. With regard to this problem between Israel and the Palestinians, which has been with us for a long time, you know the position of the Dutch Government. We are in favour of a two-state solution. We are opposed to settlement politics and we are opposed to hate. We are working together with both the Palestinians and the Israelis to maintain this two-state solution. That is at the heart of our debate, and that is what we are talking about in the European Union and elsewhere where it is necessary. And we are doing this very proactively, even in recent times, both in Paris and in the contacts we have with the Israelis and the Palestinians. That situation remains, but we are anticipating a situation that could arise. That is why I have also spoken to Minister Oren, as we are also talking to the Palestinians, but I am not going to anticipate a policy and comment on it before this could happen. It could be different, too. I would point out that the Israeli Prime Minister and President Trump, I thought, are meeting next week. On Monday, in the Foreign Affairs Council, we will at least discuss the importance which we attach to the two-state solution, which we are opposed to the settlement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u98	We are not talking about vague ideas here. The construction of thousands of homes has been announced. So that's just policy for Israel. That space is provided by the American side. That is why I ask the Foreign Minister, who will be going to the European Union for consultation, to step up his efforts on this point. Otherwise, the two-state solution on the ground is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u99	Of the latter we are a great opponent; that is indeed a risk, especially if the settlement plans that are now in place are all realised. There are a number of plans that have already been laid down. We're opposed to that, and we'll let you know. On Monday we will also be discussing this at European level. I hope that we in Europe will be able to be clear about this. There too, we must preserve the unity, which is not so simple. The Dutch Government will work through this policy line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u100	I thought there was really a strange situation, where there seemed to be some kind of roll change. The Prime Minister has just given a thorough, clear and honest account of the need for a pro-European approach to a number of elements. Then there is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has written an article in which he is a bit offended by Rutte's comments as 'the European Parliament can be a little smaller if they have nothing to do there'. That is precisely the kind of statement that you are trying to distance yourself from the way Europe works again. The Foreign Minister himself just said he doesn't want to see it happen tomorrow. My question is, why would he write something like that? Isn't that how he undermines the cooperation and the strength of the institutions that the cabinet claims to be so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u101	I don't really know what to say about this. This is one of those remarks that means that D66 sees it all exactly as far as the European Union is concerned, unlike people who say anything about the debate that is so necessary in Europe at the moment. How do we strengthen it? How do we improve the functioning of the institutions? How are we going to get things really to be strengthened in the areas of foreign policy, the internal market and migration? There's a European Foreign Minister here. Mr Verhoeven has known this for three years. Now that I have just said something critical about one of the institutions I support, he says today: yes, this and that. Let us also now jointly try to strengthen the role of Europe from the Netherlands as much as possible in those areas where people in Europe have concerns. That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u102	I'd love to. Next week we will indeed be discussing the European institutions and the future of Europe. I would like to mention to the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister some points on which we are critical and which should be different, but that is not the case with the European Parliament. In half more than the European Commission, I would like to say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, rather than being a little bit involved with comments as the Prime Minister has sometimes said: I like it when they have a bit of peace there, because that is a good sign. Those are just those remarks that do not contribute to a strong Europe. I am a little pissed off about it because I know that the Foreign Minister wants a strong Europe. However, it seems very likely that he will go along in the Prime Minister's language...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u103	That's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u104	...which is actually undermining Europe all the time to keep the door to the PVV closed here. I'd hate for the PvdA to go along with that. I think that's a weakness offer. You can talk fine about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr Verhoeven,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u106	... institutions and criticism, but not by saying that the European Parliament should be somewhat smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Verhoeven, you have already said that. I'm going to see Mr. Grashoff, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u108	Then what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u109	Well, I think this is a weakness offer and I hope we can do it differently from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u110	...I think this is a repeat of moves. Thank you. Mr. Grashoff...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u111	Let me say one thing about this, Mr President, because it is starting to annoy me a little bit. I hear the D66 Group now saying: more half than the European Commission. I note that as an apparent proposal from the D66 Group. Should I say immediately: see, you are on the side of Mr De Roon and all euro critics? If you want to stand in front of Europe, you will help to innovate and reform in order to solve problems in a positive way in Europe. Don't make a number of who is the most pre-European, because we stand here together at a time when we have to stand up for each other. If you say you want to halve the Commission next week, I will wait for that proposal and we will just talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u112	The fingers itch to interfere in a debate on these matters, but I'll keep that until next week. I really think that would be better, because then we can talk more about it. I would just like to refer to the last inter-ruption debate between Mr Van Bommel and the Foreign Minister. In the light of the changed American policy towards Israel and the direct reaction of the Israeli government, is it hopeful that we are putting some additional construction plans on it; a pure provocation is not even time to draw the map of the association agreement at European level? Should we not now say: sorry, if it is always so structural and fundamentally contrary to the association agreement, then we are going to question it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u113	There is no unity about what I would like, namely that we should have an Association Council in which we once raise this issue with Israel, just as partners who speak with each other, just as we do with other matters. We should say we don't like this case. Unfortunately, there is no consensus on this in Europe. A lot of people say you shouldn't have an Association Council because there are new settlements. Let there be no misunderstanding: we think this is a bad decision. We will discuss it further in Brussels. The most important thing is that the peace process should remain there and that serious investment should be made in it. I actually hope that the risks of negative dynamics between Palestinians and Israelis can be used to take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u114	Of course, I would hope so too, but frankly, I do not see much real reason for this at the moment. Can I say that the Foreign Minister agrees with me that there is an association agreement which, on the part of Israel, does not meet the conditions of the treaty in essential respects? And that he agrees that there is every reason to question this in a European context and, if necessary, to impose sanctions in the context of that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's three steps at the same time. I agree with you that it is important to raise it critically, but you would feel that there is, for example, an Association Council on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the gentlemen of the government who have answered all the questions. It is good that the Prime Minister is now finally clear about the fact that the entry ban is simply discriminatory. He still sticks to the word "papers" a little bit, but he did say it anyway. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the clearest and most clear statement that I have heard from him in the years I have had this debate, about the role and added value of Europe for every citizen in the Netherlands. It is a pity that the Foreign Minister seems to want to compensate for this by saying that he would obviously not be allowed to talk about the institutions. There is absolutely no need to talk about the institutions, especially by D66, but we should not torment the European Parliament because it has a controlling role to play. Rather reduce the Commission. I will really come up with concrete proposals next week in my contribution to the State of the Union. I hope that we will then talk positively, but critically, about what we need to do to make Europe stronger. I like to take on that challenge. I hope, therefore, that I can debate it with Mr Mulder so that we can get rid of it with populism a little bit. I will conclude with: let us fight for a Europe that is united towards Trump and let us ensure that we stand together for our common interests and values. It is exactly as the Prime Minister once said: together to make a fist against populism and to find solutions for citizens. The United States has Donald Trump, but I would say that the European Union could use a little more Donald Tusk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first-term clarity on US visa policy. The Secretary of State gave that clarity before. This policy is counterproductive in the fight against terrorism and discriminatory for a particular population. I'm still worried about those stranded travellers, but let's just wait and see. I promise the Prime Minister I'll come back to him when things go wrong. I asked a question about the negotiations on American control of Schiphol. I have said that they can only be resumed when these measures are removed. Can the Foreign Minister comment on that? Also with the NGOs in Egypt we will keep our finger on the wrist. The developments are worrying. We'll wait it out and come back to the moment we needed it. Whether this is the case, we also determine on the basis of our contacts with Egyptian organisations. I had a slightly different point about the prisons from what the minister went into. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are serious concerns about forced disappearances and torture in Egyptian prisons, in which tens of thousands of opponents of the regime are imprisoned;]] [[Notes that due to the lack of cooperation of the Egyptian authorities, it is not possible to establish the exact numbers of torture and forced disappearances;]] [[calls on the Government, preferably internationally, to exert more pressure on Egypt to allow an independent investigation into forced disappearances and torture in Egyptian prisons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1184]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u118	Since I'm running out of time, I'm just reading my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the EU-Israel Association Council will meet later this month;]] [[noting that this Association Council is taking place against the background of unprecedented expansion of the illegal settlements in occupied Palestinian territory which poses a direct threat to a viable Palestinian state;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at EU level, the suspension of the Association Agreement with Israel until a building stop for houses in settlements enters into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr. Chairman. I am afraid that we will be talking very often about the problems we have and will still have with the Trump administration. I think that every time we talk about this, the Prime Minister will agree more with me that there is an extremely worrying situation here, until we hope that this man will eventually disappear from the scene by the democratic forces in America. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UNHCR states that 1.2 million refugees should be eligible for resettlement, but that only 170,000 could be placed;]] [[noting that the European Union is seeking cooperation with Libya in order to overcome the refugee crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to bring to the European Summit that further cooperation with Libya should be accompanied by generous resettlement of vulnerable refugees (as defined in the Refugee Convention) from Libya,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is spending development money on measures to make migration more difficult, such as the introduction of biometric passports and border surveillance;]] [[noting that this is contrary to the OECD Guidelines on ODA;]] [[calls on the Government to insist that border control and other measures to reduce migration are not financed by European Development Money (ODA),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1186]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the proper response. Good to have had an exchange of views. This has ultimately led to one motion on our part, and I would like to urge the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to consider that motion as a support for policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that European institutions and European leaders are constantly making new proposals to strengthen, broaden and deepen European integration;]] [[Whereas these are far-reaching proposals, including a European Public Prosecutor's Office, European Finance and Foreign Ministers, a Defence Union, and fundamental institutional reforms that have a direct impact on the sovereignty of Member States;]] [[Considering that many citizens are concerned about this far-reaching European integration and proposals, and that several rulers rightly pointed out that these concerns should be taken seriously;]] [[calls on the Government, during future European consultations, to take action and to accept formally and informally the above-mentioned and similar proposals, but instead to speak out for a limited and more modest EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u121	Then I'll have one more thing off my chest. The words about the President of the United States in 2017 seem in many cases to be an almost literal copy of the words spoken about former President Reagan after his entry into office in 1981. How is he judged now? I hope that it will come to that again that the assessment of the current President of the United States may also be shared with such a fate. It'll all look sunnier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. Mr Trump has decreed that screening at the door should be improved. Now I don't know how things are at your house, but at my house, if anyone comes to the door that I don't know, and they say, "I have something to look for in your house, I'd like to look into it. That seems logical to me, but this cabinet does not need it. The Prime Minister said, "Let them come in, these migrants, and we'll see if they have a right to be here later." We know by now that most people have no right to be here, but you can't lose them anymore. Moreover, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security has said that there are many terrorists under that stream. Mr Trump says: I am going to take action against it, and I come with this measure. To my stupid surprise, our Prime Minister doesn't say that's a good idea. No, he says: I leave the door open, I do not check in advance who comes in, everyone is welcome and if something goes wrong, then we, the citizens of the Netherlands, have had bad luck. I think that's a bad thing. I think that Trump with that one signature under that decree has done more for the security of his country than this cabinet has done for the five years it's been there. That is a very regrettable conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. It is clear about the measure adopted by the President of the United States. These are worrying times, and we will keep an eye on them. I have asked the Cabinet to inform the Chamber about this in the orderly manner if there are any new developments. We have our own sources, of course, but it is always good to verify that information, especially in this case. I come to the measures taken by Netanyahu in Israel and the answer to the questions raised by the Foreign Minister. I wholeheartedly support the Minister's call for this to be discussed in the Association Council. This is a sta-in-the-way for a two-state solution which is advocated by many parties. If we let this go, it is therefore de facto very difficult to achieve. That would really be a missed opportunity for the Middle East Peace Process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. I only brought Mr Tusk's letter for the Prime Minister. I did not see in the paragraph on external threats any point about the role of America. Anyway, let's not launch any further text analysis on that now. I assume that this Prime Minister will also work to maintain the transatlantic relationship. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the detention centres in Libya. I just checked that again, including Amnesty International. There are 24 detention centres under government control, but there too the situation is abominable. Inmates, including children, are routinely exposed to torture, sexual violence, trafficking in human beings, forced labour and so on. I would remind the Foreign Minister that there is still a great deal wrong in the detention centres under government authority. Since it concerns refugees, I still have a motion to remind the government that, should a Libya deal arise through the European Commission and the Council, the rights of refugees, including those detention centres, should be guaranteed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an unstable and unsafe situation and lack of central authority in Libya;]] [[Whereas the conditions for humane reception of refugees are not yet in place;]] [[calls on the Government to agree to an agreement on refugees between the European Union and Libya only if the rights of refugees and humane reception are guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EU President Donald Tusk in his letter implies that the United States, under the new President, is a threat to Europe;]] [[whereas it is very irresponsible to strengthen relations with the US in this way;]] [[whereas America is our main ally and the transatlantic link must be protected;]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Summit, to distance itself from the letter from the EU President,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the light of the entry ban, the Cabinet has decided to suspend negotiations on US border and customs controls at Schiphol, the so-called pre-inspection;]] [[whereas this measure has adverse effects on diplomatic relations with the US, our greatest ally, and is not in the interest of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to resume these negotiations immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1190]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. The first is the future of the European Union. I have already said that the European Commission and the European Council are coming up with visions for the future of the European Union, and that these might well be high-profile visions. The Prime Minister says it's gonna be okay and there's no majority for it. However, when this kind of proposal comes, people will think: there they go again, that train thunders and how many wake-up calls do they still need in Brussels. Even if these proposals do not become policies, they do harm. I would ask that this message be sent to Malta and Brussels, as much as possible. I have another question for the Foreign Minister on the Mediterranean. The Minister said what the European Union wants to do, but I think people want to know what it is doing. How many refugees are going to get less across the Mediterranean with these measures? What can we pay the European Union for and set targets for Malta?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has made it clear that this decree is discriminatory. It took a while. He needed some encouragement, but it's a good thing it was pronounced by him here today. I would like to encourage him to take a position earlier in the future, should there be any similar or at least as reprehensible proposals from the White House, and not to trivialise them. Maybe he's already scheduled a phone call. I wish him every success in that. That seems to be quite a challenge, as I hear from Australia. If that is the case, it should not only be used to convey congratulations once again, but also to discuss a number of other issues: not only that travel ban, but also the climate, trade and Trump's statements on the possible reintroduction of torture practices. I would very much encourage him to name and discuss all these matters. I have three more questions. It is not quite clear to me whether there is already a central information point where Dutch people or people in the Netherlands can still ask about the possibility or impossibility to travel to the US. My second question concerns the MOVP. In the past, the Foreign Minister has said that he wants to talk about measures without taboos, implying that they can also be negative measures. Can I assume that this is still the case, so also in the discussions at the beginning of next week? Finally, I have a question about the Brexit. We were just talking about the negative publicity campaign that might be being conducted by the British Government. I have just been informed that even the British ambassador in the Netherlands holds these kinds of stories at meetings, so here companies say: beware, in the Netherlands things might go wrong. I find that really too serious to discuss only here and request formal contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u128	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Bommel had a question about the negotiations with America. I'm referring to the letter. These negotiations can only be resumed if there is clarity about the approach taken and if it is clear that the European national frameworks can be guaranteed. The VVD asked whether we realize that proposals can already be harmful. I understand that, but I can't give you any guarantees. We will therefore continue to draw attention to it, but I cannot guarantee that there will never again be an unwise proposal from a Brussels body. However, I understand the request. The Labour Party asked a question about a central information point. I had already answered that question: that is the country's own embassy. For Dutch, this is the 24/7 BZ Contact Center. The same applies to people with a double passport. We will always relate ourselves firmly, diplomatically to other countries that make all kinds of statements. And above all, we will ensure that we deliver our message in all kinds of international fora. I am thinking, for example, of the message that there is no exit from the Netherlands. We will bring that up in all kinds of international fora. Then I'll come to the motions. I advise the Bishop's motion, in part No. 1188. The European system simply does not allow the Netherlands, or the European Council, to decide whether or not the Commission can make proposals. We as a cabinet determine our position after consultation with the Chamber. This is via the BNC-fiches, general consultation, etc. This position is then put forward by the Ministers in the relevant Councils. The Bontes motion in part No. 1190 with reference to what I said about it in the first term. The Bontes motion in part No. 1191 with reference to what I have just answered to Mr Van Bommel's questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Chairman. I want the Van Bommel motion on piece number one. 1184. We are talking a great deal with the European Union and bilaterally with Egypt on a wide range of issues, including human rights and the situation in prisons. International research is only one possibility. We also have the Human Rights Council. It is precisely now that we are talking to the European Union that there are other ways of doing this. So I would not commit to the message of this motion and I would advise against it. The Van Bommel/Grashoff motion in part No. 1185 I'd like to dissuade. I do give reasons for this, which also have to do with critical remarks we make on settlement policy. Firstly, it seems important that the Association Council should be able to take place, because that is certainly not yet certain. Secondly, as friends, I think it is important that we tell each other the truth, including the settlement policy. I say to Mr Servaes: there are no options. In that light, I would therefore like to discourage this motion. Also the motion in part No. 1186, on the UNHCR, I advise. Reception in the region is the preferred option. We're gonna work on that. I refer to the Malta Declaration, which we discussed today. 80% of the people arriving in Italy are economic migrants. So they're not talking about resettlement. Resettlement is only possible as part of a wider agreement. Of course, Europe should also take its own responsibility. We have done so in the light of the Turkey agreement. Such an agreement cannot be directly copied in that region. Libya is not in a position to do that either, for the reason I mentioned earlier. Nor can we send people back to Libya at the moment. So I'm deceiving that motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1187. I must dissuade them in the present form. Some migration activities may be ODA'ble, others may not. Coast Guard human rights training is covered by ODA, i.e. the Paris criteria. That does not apply to the purchase of equipment for the Coast Guard. The Netherlands considers that EU activities are also covered by ODA criteria. So we're sticking to the Paris criteria. In that light, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 1189 the government is asked to approve an agreement on refugees between the EU and Libya only if the rights of refugees and humane reception are guaranteed. I see that motion as a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u131	The Minister said what action the European Union is going to take on migration. However, I also asked what the targets are. How many people do we need to reduce the numbers of refugees? Have those targets been set in Malta? Can we also charge the EU for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u132	A brief answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u133	The target is zero. The aim is to reduce the number of people coming here with ships, the economic migrants, to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u134	When's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u135	I think you understand that I cannot give you a precise date for that. In fact, I would find that irresponsible. However, the Dutch Government makes it clear that it is active on all these fronts. Unfortunately, the whole situation with regard to migration and refugees is not managed at the push of a button. It's a little too complicated for that. It would therefore be unfair for me to say that we will succeed in 30 or 60 days' time. It just can't be. However, it is our commitment to keep that target.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-8.u137	This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled at 15.50 p.m.
