ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Saskia Stuiveling. I would like to welcome her family, her husband Dop Scheewe, her children Nienke and Titus, their partners and other relatives. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, Jeroen Dijsselbloem. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. "Profet of digitalization with unbridled energy," according to Volkskrant Saskia Stuiveling. I'm a little emotional because I knew her personally. Het Financieele Dagblad wrote: "Recogniser with a sense of people." "On the breach for decent government," Trouw said. "A sharp, modern institute in an institute" was in the NRC. It is clear that Saskia Stuiveling was a remarkable person who was widely appreciated. In her, traits came together that you think are impossible for them to exist in one person. She was business and human, conservative and progressive, pragmatic and theoretical, sober with an artistic touch. As a room, we've had a lot to do with her. For 16 years, she was President of the General Court, an important player in our democratic system of checks-and-balances. Sixteen times she explained the accounts here in the plenary. She didn't do that with velvet gloves. Saskia Stuiveling was sharp in her judgment and sharp in her words. "I am of course walking bad news," she said herself about her reputation. An important step taken by the Court of Auditors under the leadership of Saskia Stuiveling was towards the citizen. She herself spoke of a "total tilting." She felt it wasn't like this time of year not to be transparent. It testifies to knowledge of and an eye for changes in the world around us. Saskia Stuiveling made itself hard for open dates and for making available in an accessible way all the knowledge that the Court of Auditors has in its home. In doing so, she made the battle from language to image and from words to films and posters. Especially in an ancient institution such as the General Court, a place where traditions weigh heavily, these changes indeed symbolized a "total tilting." Saskia Stuiveling was concerned with the position of the most vulnerable in our society. It was her motivation, which was clearly reflected in the work of the Court of Auditors. Education, care and safety were important files for her. She felt that the more open attitude of the Court of Auditors did not stop at its own borders. Changes in the financial world............................................................................................................................................................... In 2014, she organised a major international conference for European Courts of Auditors. This conference was entirely dedicated to the renewal of the Court's working methods: how do you collect information, how do you analyse it and, above all, how do you involve the citizen? In a farewell interview, Saskia Stuiveling said she was proud of the Court's authority. She wouldn't have meant it like that. She didn't like to brag, but with that she gave herself a great compliment, because that authority had and had largely thanks to her, to her analytical gaze, her desire for renewal and her firm way of doing things. Under its leadership, the Court of Auditors has come a long way. And not just that. It is not a road that lies in the past. Also for the future Saskia Stuiveling has determined the direction and paved the road. For example, the influence of Saskia Stuiveling, the "Hague prophet of digitization," that "instituut in an institute" will continue to be felt for a long time. We wish her next of kin much strength in these sad times. I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Jeroen Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. There was something about Saskia Stuiveling's eyes. There was a twinkle in it, like she knew something more about the life no one else knew about. You don't really notice this kind of thing until someone's gone. Then you wonder, what made her so special? Now that I've had time to think about it, I suspect it was that twinkle. Saskia left us at the age of 71 and the Netherlands has lost one of its most impressive drivers. She was Secretary of State for the Interior in the Van Agt II cabinet, but we know her mostly as a college member, since 1984, and later as President of the General Court of Auditors. A position that she held with great class from 1999 to 2015. She forced respect on everyone through her way of working, which was steadfast and meticulous. She was not only good at digging through, she was good at asking through. There was always another question. She was simply always informed and wanted to know more. She did that with a red omen. Once she held on, she didn't let go, no matter how much the other one shook or jumped. She didn't care much who stood in front of her, she just didn't let go and that twinkle never disappeared from her eyes. That made her special. I've often been on the receiving side of that persistence. That wasn't always easy, but it was impossible to have no respect and no weakness for her. In the ministries, people were deeply in awe of her and her work. Prime Minister Rutte said it as early as 2015 when she said goodbye: "I see how anxiously the Court of Auditors believes the departments are being looked forward to. What words does Saskia Stuiveling use this year and how strict does she look at that? That really counts." When you combine knowledge and skill, you run the risk of getting things done, and Saskia did. She's had a lot of success. Her career was largely devoted to improving public administration. She did so systematically and with her eye on the goal. She was at the cradle of Accountability Day and, partly because of her efforts, the control of public expenditure has progressed with leaps and bounds. She was an engine behind the international cooperation of auditing chambers, as you said, Chairman. Its starting point was always that the government should always behave in business terms in terms of expenditure. She even said that her study in business administration was the best decision of her life, because she believed that business knowledge would also be useful for the public sector. She later added the belief in democratisation of knowledge. We need to look much more for what society has to say, she said long before anyone in The Hague had heard of "crowdsourcing" or "the wisdom of crowds." I hope I have done justice to the successes Saskia has achieved in her professional life. I'd fail her if I didn't. Saskia has spent her whole life working for others, also outside her professional work. She received a Chilean high award for her great personal commitment to and commitment to that country. She always found that kind of thing a little embarrassing, because she was really confused with self-glorification. Despite the fact that she was often the only woman at the table and sometimes even the only woman in the building, she didn't really find emancipation her subject. That was too much about herself and she didn't want to, it had to be about the content. That she meant a lot for women's empathy in the Netherlands, she didn't really want to hear: "I don't care for myself." Madam President. A week and a half ago, Saskia's funeral was in Rotterdam. During the funeral in the reformed church in her own street Gracias a la vida was sung. "Gracias a la vida que me ha dado tanto": I thank the life that has given me so much. "Me dio dos luceros, que cuando los abro": it gave me two eyes, which when I open them "perfecto distingo lo negro del blank," perfectly distinguish black from white. When I heard this, I thought: how striking! Saskia indeed had those two eyes, which perfectly distinguished the black from the white. I think that was that twinkle by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	I ask you all to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for a short time, so you'll have the opportunity to offer your condolences to the next of kin.
