ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Neppérus, chairman of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, to produce the report on behalf of the committee. I call Mrs Neppérus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. In recent days, the smallest committee of the House of Representatives has carried out the tasks assigned to it. These tasks consist of a number of statutory tasks. First of all, the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith determines whether the persons who have been elected by the Central Voting Office can actually be admitted as members of the House of Representatives. To this end, the Committee shall examine whether these members are nationals of the Netherlands, have reached the age required by law, do not hold incompatible functions as stated in the Constitution and the Incompatibility Act, and whether they are not deprived of the right to vote. In addition, the Committee examines the minutes drawn up in each of the approximately 10,000 polling stations in the Netherlands, on the day of the elections, 15 March, on the orderly and legitimate conduct of the elections. In doing so, the committee has an important role to play in protecting the confidence that all citizens must be able to place in our democracy. Several international observer delegations have been informed of the electoral process in the Netherlands. The Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith greatly appreciates the international interest and has given the delegations all the support and information they need. Most delegations concentrated on the campaign phase. The OSCE delegation also witnessed the election day itself and subsequently informed itself of the way in which the outcome was determined. The Committee awaits with interest the OSCE report, which will be published in about six months' time. I shall now go into more detail about the conduct of the elections as shown in the minutes. Then I will deal with the admission of the elected persons. The committee thanks all the staff of the Chamber who carried out the actual inspection of the minutes last Saturday. Since the newly elected Chamber met eight days after the elections, this extensive task of control had to be carried out in a short time. Fortunately, thanks to the efforts of many Chamber staff, this time too has been successful. Several members of the committee were present last Saturday and saw with their own eyes that this task was carried out with dedication and care. I, too, have seen it with my own eyes. Thank you very much for that. During their work, the employees of the House of Representatives build on all employees in the municipalities and the members of the polling stations. More than 60,000 people throughout the Netherlands are in the pipeline for this. We do not want to forget those people in our thanks. The staff of the main polling offices delivered all the documents immediately to the Chamber after the statutory hearing of their office on Friday, 17 March. The fact that this time the results of the elections had to be determined manually meant that they had to carry out an extremely difficult task. Finally, if they deliver the result of their work to the Chamber, this includes a welcoming reception. The Committee therefore proposes that more attention be paid to this in the future. The committee has taken note, through the audit of the minutes, of problems encountered in these elections and of complaints made by voters and election offices. Some of them the Committee would like to highlight. The committee does not recall that there was ever a shortage of ballots, but this time many polling stations have mentioned this. The arrangements for these elections were apparently too tight in general. The committee believes that elections are so important that this is not acceptable. Where this economy can lead, the committee has seen, among other things, in the municipality of Nijmegen. There voters were referred to other polling stations due to a lack of ballots. Additional ballots were created by means of a copier. Voting cards have been redistributed to the polling stations. The length of time that the polling station would still be open has been miscommunicated. At several polling stations, including in Enschede, the vote had to be suspended because of a lack of ballots. The Committee does not think that the transport or redistribution of ballots took place on election day, as in Nijmegen and Enschede. This increases the risk of fraud and leads to uncertainty at polling stations. The members of polling station Groningen 103 felt attacked when a municipal official came to collect ballots from them to give them to another polling station. In a number of municipalities the ballot boxes were too small for the ballots. At some polling stations, including Groningen 440, the ballot box has been opened to print the ballots and make room again or a sealed box has been placed next to the ballot box. The committee believes that the municipality should prevent polling stations from resorting to such emergency measures. A municipality that organises two polling stations in one location requires difficulties. This was seen by the committee at the offices of Leeuwarden 39 and 40 in district building De Frosk and also at the offices of The Hague 264 and 271. The voting deficit at one bureau is equal to the surplus at the other bureau. That is a good thing in this case, but the committee has the impression that members of the polling bureau have not really been able to keep the overview, at least in a number of cases. On the contrary, they must be enabled to do so by the municipalities. The municipality of Leiden is another example of a municipality where the organisation of the elections proved to be too tight. There, too, the great hustle and bustle were mentioned as the cause of errors. At a single polling station the vote had to be interrupted due to a shortage of ballots. Even polling station Leiden 1, the city hall, where there are usually very experienced polling station members, showed a difference in vote this time. A tool for the members of a polling station is an app and an iPad to check whether a voter has a valid voting pass. Problems were reported in the minutes in 41 cases in the five municipalities using this medicine. The Committee proposes to ask the Minister of the Interior to inform the Chamber about the use and careful application of this instrument. On the basis of the minutes, the Committee found that this time there were clearly more count errors than in the 2012 parliamentary elections. Fortunately, the height of the counting errors was significantly lower than in 2012. The pressure on the polling stations, because they had to process so many voters, seems to be the cause of this. The Committee concludes that the municipalities should make more generous provisions available in future elections. Members of the polling stations, usually volunteers, are asked a lot on election day. The municipality must therefore prepare them well for their task and ensure that only members are appointed who are fit to do so. In some polling stations, members had doubts about the suitability of each other. This hinders self-determination towards the electorate. The members of the polling stations are confronted with many questions about the private authorisation. It is not sufficiently clear to voters and therefore needs to be re-explained at each election. Voters who are not allowed to vote because of these unclear rules express their disappointment, anger or sometimes even anger at members of the polling station, who can then make a wrong decision under pressure. At polling station 5 in Oldebroek, a furious voter had to be removed from the polling station by the police. The same problem arises in voters with mental disabilities. Guides of these persons exercised pressure on the polling station to be allowed to provide assistance in the voting booth, which is prohibited by the Election Act. The committee recommends that the Minister make proposals to enable these voters to exercise their right to vote independently. The findability, accessibility and organisation of the polling office also regularly give rise to complaints. As far as the establishment is concerned, 131 polling station in Amsterdam was particularly prominent this time. The location was the multicultural center on Joubertstraat. In this center were Turkish flags and a banner of Diyanet. Objections have been made. The mayor of Amsterdam responded correctly to that objection. The flags and also the leaflets, although they had nothing to do with the elections, could cause confusion and have therefore been removed. The committee believes that a polling station should have a neutral appearance; an appearance which cannot give rise to confusion. This time, due to the size of the ballot, the establishment of the polling office gave rise to a specific complaint. Voters complained that the ballot in the voting booth could not be folded out properly. If a voter focused mainly on the left or right side of the bill, it could give an indication of his choice. The secret of voting could be violated in this way. Once again, voters advocated hanging curtains. The inventiveness and accessibility of polling stations have once again given rise to complaints from disadvantaged voters in particular. It is a complaint that is still being made in elections. Local authorities should continue to pay attention to this when choosing and setting up voting locations. A very persistent problem, for which the committee unfortunately has to draw attention again, is the right to vote for Dutch citizens abroad. A large number of voters have complained to the committee that they are actually deprived of their right to vote by the complicated and, above all, slow handling of the procedure as it is for them. With this complaint, a group of 154 voters brought an interim action against the State of the Netherlands requesting an extension of the deadline for their voting documents to be received for the upcoming Lower House elections. In a shortened judgment given by the court of The Hague on 7 March last, this claim was dismissed. Questioning has shown that the court could not yet state when the statement of reasons for the judgment will be available. As this problem is repeated, the Committee once again calls for a quick and solid solution. She also wonders whether it is most appropriate to invest the entire performance with the municipality of The Hague, which has no connection with the electorate for which it organises the elections and which is not directly accessible to the House of Representatives, for which the elections are held. A number of objections were raised at the plenary session of the Central Voting Office, at which the final result was announced yesterday in the Old Hall. The Committee supports the response of the Central Voting Office to the objections raised. Shortly after the publication of that result, another translation was reported in the municipality of Twenterand. The committee is satisfied that this translation has indeed taken place but cannot have influenced the result and the allocation of seats, since it concerned the counting of a number of preferred votes within the same list. With this remark, the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith believes that the result of the elections has been correctly proposed. Mr. Chairman. In the light of the comments made by the Committee, it is pleased to submit to the Court its conclusion that the complaints and the minor irregularities do not give rise to doubts as to the legitimate conduct of the elections and the accuracy of the outcome proposed by the Central Voting Office. The committee was able to discuss the admission of 150 members from this conviction. For this purpose, 150 credentials have been placed in the hands of the committee. Furthermore, the minutes of 21 March 2017 of the session held on that day of the Central Voting Office to determine the results of the elections of the members of the Chamber following the vote, were held on Wednesday 15 March 2017 in the hands of the Committee. The fact that a number of those who have been elected are already members of the Chamber shows that they have reached the required age. The documents annexed to the credentials of the other elected members also show that they have reached the required age. Furthermore, the declaration by all the elected representatives shows that they do not have relations incompatible with the membership of the Chamber. The Committee has not found any indication in respect of any chosen person on the basis of which his or her Dutch identity should be questioned. In addition, none of the elected members has shown any circumstance which would have led them to withdraw from the election under Article 54 of the Constitution. The Committee therefore proposes to allow as a member of the Chamber after they have taken the oath and the promise respectively: R.R. Van Aalst in Hengelo, M. Agema in The Hague, M. Amhaouch in Panningen, K. Arib in Amsterdam, F.M. Arissen te Huis ter Heide, T. van Ark te Nieuwerkerk aan den IJssel, L.F. Asscher te Amsterdam, F. Azarkan te Culemborg, M. Azmani te Dalfsen, T.H.P. Baudet in Amsterdam, B. Becker in The Hague, S.M. Beckerman in Groningen, H.J. Bertema te Voorburg, S. Belhaj te Rotterdam, J.A.M.J. van den Berg-Jansen in Goes, V.A. Bergkamp te Amsterdam, R. Bisschop te Veenendaal, A. van den Bosch te Zaltbommel, M. Bosma te Amsterdam, A. Bosman te Middelburg, A. Bouali te Amsterdam, C.M. van Brenn in Utrecht, J.H. ten Broeke at Hof van Twente, E.E.W. Bruins in Alphen aan den Rijn, H.G.J. Bruins-Slot in Utrecht, K.M. Buitenweg in Amsterdam, C.J.L. van Dam in The Hague, S. Dekker in The Hague, A.E. Diertens in Groningen, A.P.C. Van Dijck in The Hague, G.J. Van Dijk in Den Burgh, J.J. van Dijk in Amsterdam, E. Dijkgraaf in Zevenhuizen, K.H.D.M. Dijkhoff, Breda, S.A.M. Dijksma in Enschede, P.A. Dijkstra te Utrecht, R.J. Dijkstra te Lienden, J.R.V.A. Dijsselbloem in Wageningen, R.K. Dik-Faber in Veenendaal, L.I. Diks te Leeuwarden, P.J. Duisenberg in The Hague, J.M. van Eijs te Eindhoven, Z. el Yassini te Utrecht, I.K. of Engelshoven in The Hague, S.R. Fritsma in The Hague, F.W. Futselaar, Zwolle, K. Gerbrands, The Hague, J.L. Geurts te Voorthuizen, M. de Graaf te The Hague, H.J. Grashoff, Delft, D.J.G. Graus te Heerlen, T.C. de Groot in Haarlem, M. Grootehuizen in Nijmegen, S. van Haersma Buma in Voorburg, M.G.J. Harbers in Rotterdam, P.E. Heerma in Purmerend, L.M.J.S. Bright in Venlo, M.J.F. van Helvert te Sittard, J.A. Hennis-Plasschaert in Nederhorst den Berg, S.T.M. Hermans te Amsterdam, T.U. Hiddema in Maastricht, H.P.M. Hijink in Amersfoort, K.A.E. van den Hul in The Hague, R.A.A. Jetten te Nijmegen, L.W.E. de Jong in The Hague, C.E. de Jonge van Ellemeet in Abcoude, S. Karabulut in Amsterdam, M.C.G. Keijzer, Edam-Volendam, B. van Kent, The Hague, J.F. Clover in The Hague, R.W. Knops in Horst aan de Maas, D.A.N. Courhuis in Tervuren, Belgium, C.J.E. Kooiman te Utrecht, W. Koolmees te Rotterdam, S.M.G. Koopmans te Hoofddorp, A. Kops te Nijmegen, S.C. Kröger te Amsterdam, H.C.M. Krol te Eindhoven, A. Kuik te Groningen, A.H. Kuik te Breda, T. Kuzu te Rotterdam, J.P. Kwint te Amsterdam, C. Lacin te Rotterdam, T.M.T. van der Lee in Amsterdam, R.M. Leijten in Haarlem, W.H.J. Lodders in Zeewolde, B. Madlener in Rockanje, V. Maeijer in Krimpen aan den IJssel, L.M.C. Marijnissen in Oss, G. Markuszower in Amstelveen, M.R.H.M. von Martels in Dalfsen, P.H. Van Meenen in Leiden, J. Middendorp in Amsterdam, H. van der Molen in Leeuwarden, A.H. Mulder in Assen, A. Mulder in The Hague, E. Mulder in Zwolle, H. Nijboer in Groningen, C.N.A. Nijkerken-de Haan te Schinveld, M. van Nispen te Breda, A. van Ojik te Amsterdam, P.H. Omtzigt te Enschede, F. van Oosten te Schiedam, E. Ouwehand te Leiden, Z. Özdil te Amsterdam, S. Öztürk te Roermond, N. Özütok te Amsterdam, J.M. Paternotte in Amsterdam, A. Pechtold in Wageningen, W.P.H.J. Peters, Oss, E.M.J. Ploumen in Amsterdam, G.J.F. Popken in The Hague, A.A.G.M. van Raak te Amsterdam, L. van Raan te Amsterdam, R. Raemakers te Neer, E.G.M. Roemer in Sambeek, M.R.J. Rog in Haarlem, H.A.G. Ronnes in Boxmeer, M.J. van Rooijen in Oegstgeest, R. de Roon in The Hague, A.C.L. Rutte in Groningen, M. Rutte in The Hague, L. Sazias in Hilversum, C.J. Schouten in Rotterdam, G.J.M. Segers in Hoogland, S.W. Sjoerdsma in The Hague, B.A.W. Snels te Utrecht, C.G. van der Staaij in Benthuizen, O.C. Tellegen in The Hague, M.L. Thieme te Maarssen, L. van Tongeren te Amsterdam, M.M. van Toorenburg in Rosmalen, S. van Veldhoven in Rijswijk, K. Verhoeven in Amersfoort, B. Visser in Zaanstad, J.S. Voordewind te Amsterdam, L.G.J. Voortman te Utrecht, A. de Vries te Leeuwarden, F.P. Wassenberg, Geleen, V.D.D. van Weerdenburg in Amstelveen, E.M. Westerveld in Nijmegen, A. Weverling in Naaldwijk, S.P.R.A. Van Weyenberg in The Hague, D. Wiersma in Utrecht, G. Wilders in The Hague, M. Wörsdörfer in The Hague, B. van 't Wout in Hoeven, D. Yesilgöz-Zegerius in Amsterdam, E. Ziegs in Assen and H. Zijlstra in Wassenaar. Mr. Chairman. The Committee proposes that the Chamber send a printout of its report to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations with a request to comment on the content of the report within six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the committee for examining the letters of faith. In particular, I would like to thank her chairman and the committee staff for the report and the very great amount of work that has been done to produce this report in a short time. This year there was even more time pressure on it than usual. I was in the Chamber last Saturday and saw a lot of employees there who had worked hard with dedication to get it all done in time. You were there, Mrs. Neppérus. It is of course beautiful and honourable to be able to do so. However, it is not self-evident that people work extra work on weekends, but in this case this has been done in the interests of our parliamentary democracy. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	I propose that we decide, in accordance with the committee's proposals for examining the letters of creed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	Tomorrow will be the swearing-in of the newly constituted Chamber. We shall soon be saying goodbye to those Members who will not return to the Chamber tomorrow.
