ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the informant's final report. I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u2	Madam President. It is a pity that one of the proposed prime minister candidates is not present, but we will continue with the debate. After eight weeks, negotiations between VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks failed. There are two major questions for the Christian Union Group. The first is: has everything been put into practice in this attempt? The second is: is this the final end of this attempt or do the parties still see the possibility of getting out later? It is good to have the debate today. As a chamber, we have instructed the informant, and now we as a chamber have to re-assess the balance sheet. To know what the next step is towards a stable cabinet, we first need to know where and how it went wrong. As a result of the report by the informant, my group still has a few questions. The informant states that, in these circumstances, it considers that a continuation of the investigation is neither useful nor necessary. What does she mean by that? Can these circumstances be changed in such a way that it considers it imaginable that discussions on this combination can be reopened at a later stage? The informant also writes in her letter that the key issues for the parties concerned are large differences: migration, climate and income differences and the closely related subjects. Can the informant say what subject areas of agreement proved impossible? What is the situation with regard to the issue of migration which she has specifically mentioned and the three aspects she has mentioned? And was it the conclusion that it had failed from itself? I have to conclude that... or was it the joint conclusion of the four forming parties, the four group chairmen? Then I'll come to the sequel. The informant rightly states that for this round the parties were gathered mainly on the basis of the election results and not on the basis of the programming agreements. That doesn't make it easy. The follow-up doesn't seem easy either. There are wishes about the area of the majority of a coalition and there are exclusive parties to each other. We heard about that in the first term. My group welcomes the recommendation of the informant to appoint an informant after the debate, with the task of exploring in the short term the possibilities for the formation of a cabinet which can count on fruitful cooperation with both chambers of the States General. On the basis of this exploratory round, we will have to draw conclusions on the follow-up. Finally, I would like to thank the informant for her efforts over the last few weeks in the search for a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Almost nine weeks were needed to establish that the VVD, the CDA, D66 and GroenLinks fundamentally differ on issues such as climate policy, refugee policy and poverty reduction. Anyone who had put the election programmes of these four parties next to each other could have determined that within an hour. Whoever did the StemWijzer, even in ten minutes. Of course, after the 2012 formation, it seemed as if any political contradiction could be bridged in the context of 'will be possible'. But the massive rejection by the voter of that error does not invite a repeat. The Netherlands may be coalition country, but there is nothing that obliges parties to engage in coalitions that cannot actually be. The program of the CDA is just as far away from that of D66 and GroenLinks as the programs of the VVD and the PvdA in 2012. You shouldn't want something like that as a political party unless you're tired of life. There are plenty of parties and party leaders who have indicated that they can choose green: from green right to GroenLinks. If Mr Rutte is serious that he sees green right as the most desirable course, like his allies at VNO-NCW by the way, he puts aside Mr Buma's anything but green CDA and explores the possibility of a green cabinet with parties like D66, GroenLinks, the Christian Union, the Party for Animals and possibly the SP and the PvdA. If these parties are really willing to choose the transcendental importance of an ambitious climate policy and allow the positions that divide them to be a free issue, there may still be a green cabinet before the summer recess. Especially when such a cabinet is asked for directors with a less party political profile and a great political and public trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u4	If we fill out the VoiceWijzer, we'll know immediately what's as good as possible. The whole exercise of the past two months is strange and unjust. Mrs Thieme then comes with a combination of SP and VVD. That is really strange, after the debate on the interruptions here, during which Mr Roemer gave clear wine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u5	Sure. That is why at the end I also said 'possibly supplemented by the SP and the PvdA'. It may also be the case that other parties are inspired and say that they have sufficient confidence when progress has been made with the parties I have just mentioned. This is certainly possible because I propose that the cabinet should make very clear agreements, particularly in the area of cross-party interests around the climate, and that there should be a free choice in matters where the differences are very large. You'll be working with varying majorities. For example, in the context of this construction you can look at a cabinet in which more party-neutral directors are appointed. Such a variation can also be called "business office," but in the sense that the parties together form a kind of nuclear cabinet in which clear agreements are made, especially in the area of climate. Given the fact that the SP has regularly voted climate-friendly in recent years in which I have come to know the SP, I can imagine that it is ultimately willing to join. That's how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u6	If you want to talk about this, you might just be two months ahead before you can draw the conclusion whether or not you can. Then your review of the past two months is quite curious. You say that it is absurd that they have undertaken this exercise, while you yourself come up with a proposal in which some water would have to flow through the Rhine before we are completely out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u7	There's a big difference, isn't there? Over the last two months, an attempt has been made to form a coalition of parties which could logically form a coalition on the basis of the number of seats, but not on the basis of programmatic agreements, as the informer has also indicated. My proposal is not to look at the question of who is the biggest and the second largest, but to look at the question of who has a lot in common on a programmatic basis. I can imagine that it would take less than two months to achieve a more unified and sustainable cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u9	If there are melting icebergs in sight, a discussion about port or starboard is not relevant, as is the rearranging of the seats on the deck of a ship in the sight of such an iceberg. It is about the course that will save future generations from the disaster caused by climate change. There is a sense of urgency, there is social support, and there is a political majority, including among young people who are politically organized. Think of the Terlouw Manifesto. All the lights are green. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u10	Madam President. Thank you to Mrs Schippers and compliments to the formation team. During the negotiations, almost nothing came out. The fact that there is no leaking in this house is, at least, worth mentioning. The day before yesterday, the message came out that the talks were stalled. That was also done neatly tuned. We may quietly refer to this attempt to form as the "appformation." Apparently everyone kept to what was passed on by the spindoctors via the app. On Radio 1 I heard an assembly of the comments of the four parties involved. Those comments were mixed together. You will hear clearly that all the words and phrases were aligned. However, this alignment is not maintained. The leak has begun. Almost nothing will be kept from us in the long run. We already know you heard the message while you were at the gym. We also know that a saté was ordered shortly before the blow. By the way, it wasn't a blow at all. Normally you say a formation has collapsed, but now everyone in choir shouted that the formation had crashed. "Failure," I repeat, because something that has collapsed can hardly be repaired, but an engine block that is jammed can be brought back to work with a bit of lubricating oil. And yet today the VVD speaks of "improbable." The CDA talks about "unreality." D66 says "not now" and GroenLinks speaks of "a point and not a comma." There is also a point behind the sentence I am now saying. After that, there's just another one. That is why my question remains: do VVD, CDA and D66 definitively exclude further talks with GroenLinks? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the exploratory informant to be appointed is rapidly in the starting blocks for discussions with other group chairmen. We would be very grateful if in these talks we were asked for the opinion of all parties on a minority cabinet, the conclusion of a coalition with more than four parties and the conclusion of an agreement with one or more other small groups alongside the Christian Union. Already there is talk of 'an impasse'. It is therefore necessary to review the various blockades, for example against the PVV, and by the SP against the VVD and by the Labour Party against mooring. 50PLUS wants a coalition with parties who want to talk about lowering the AOW age, maintaining our pension system and preventing pension reductions and who really want to work on solving long-term elderly unemployment. We like to sit at the table with those parties. Those concerned do not want to give more information about the provisional or conditional agreement reached in some areas, so we have to wait for what is leaking in the Saturday editions of the newspapers. I wonder if that's wise. Carefulness is important, taking time too, but we also consider some speed important. Finally, a tip to the colleagues: tonight a meeting of GroenLinks, called meet-up, was held in the Horse of Troy. She starts at 7:30. I believe that the people there will be a lot wiser than we are here today in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u11	Madam President. Professor Carla van Baalen once said it nicely in her lecture: "complaining about cabinet formations is as Dutch as complaining about the weather." Each time they are accompanied by a lot of trampling, grumbling and criticism. "It takes too long," "it's all too mysterious" and so on. Also today there are some complaints to be heard here and there. "Would it have been necessary to spend weeks together?" "Doesn't all this take too long?" On behalf of the SGP, I do not wish to express any new lamentations about this failed formation attempt today. Besides, we also have nothing to complain about the weather. I noticed that, especially after the break-up with GroenLinks, global warming has been tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u12	On the contrary, the SGP wishes to express a great deal of sympathy for the fact that the negotiations have run smoothly. Indeed, differences in substance on important issues such as migration, income policy and climate are so great that it is extremely difficult to reach confidence-building compromises with these parties. For this reason, the SGP also saw little benefit in this attempt at formation. Remarkably united, the negotiators of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks came to the conclusion last Monday that they disagree. We have seen a lot in all cabinet formations in recent decades, but I think this failed formation effort deserves a place in the top three most courteous failures of formation attempts. That proved to be the case during today's debate. This may cause some concern. "Doesn't that mean they can just pick up the wire"? That doesn't have to be the case. You can also see very quietly that the differences in content are too great. The other way around, when there was a bit more comforting tossing with doors, like the first attempt at formation of Purple I, you saw that they got back together a little later. So we never know how this is going, but at least I see it as a profit that you can also just have a decent difference of opinion and that we do not necessarily need swinging doors to underline that. The time has been generously taken to reach the conclusion, but the final report, for which thanks, does not use many words to explain this conclusion. In the explanation of the breakup, I heard the negotiators talk a lot about rifts and bridges. We would like to hear between which parties the differences are so great that the gap cannot be bridged. Anyone looking at the election programmes would suspect that the gap with GroenLinks was particularly difficult to close. The image that is emerging today indicates that, but this is indeed a relevant question, including to the informant and also to the follow-up advice that will be discussed. The other question I have just raised is: how hard is this conclusion now? That too has already been said in the debate today. "Forming is phasering" we hear regularly from the Prime Minister's mouth. That's wonderful, but it shouldn't become too noncommittal which makes the credo "forming is trying." What's next? The SGP supports the idea of identifying an informant in this debate who will explore which parties are best placed to talk; there is a particular need for a scout. We also think it desirable that the cabinet should be able to find a spirit-related majority both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. That majority does not need to be too broad in terms of the SGP. It is precisely the absence of a massive majority that can be a means to value valuable ideas outside the coalition in good time. The history of the Rutte Cabinets shows that we have little to complain about. Finally, I have a wish. It's quiet in the Stadhouders Room now. I hope that this stadholderless era will come to an end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Day 63 of the reconnaissance of the formation is the day of supplication. The PVV begs the VVD to participate at the negotiating table. Rutte says no. D66 and the CDA are begging the SP to sit at the negotiating table. Roemer says no. The SP is asking Buma to become the new prime minister. Buma says no. Actually, that's very distinctive. It's possible. It's a snail's pace, because what anyone could predict on day 1 wasn't concluded until day 61. The question is whether that really took 61 days. Was it really necessary to sniff and smell 61 days together to conclude that the love between the VVD, the CDA, D66 and GroenLinks was impossible? Was it really necessary to see after 61 days that the differences were unbridgeable? The answer to that is no, given what the negotiating parties said on the day they started this unchuckled exercise. And the informant was still trying so hard. She provided guest lectures from experts. She arranged lunches and dinners. She gave days off. She left the evenings unused. Of the 61 days that this period has taken, 18 have actually worked. That's pretty fancy. In the meantime, teachers wanted a higher salary and the educational spokesperson of D66 referred to the negotiating table. People in the country who wanted to get rid of the towering own risk asked to do something about it and GroenLinks' healthcare spokesperson referred to the negotiating table. Stand still, while we must move forward. If we leave all the controversial issues in this way, we will not be able to move forward. Prosperity must be shared more fairly, inequality must be combated and discrimination and racism must be tackled vigorously. The people of the country deserve a government as soon as possible to address their problems. In the next round, DENK likes to see more work ethos, less business psychology and team building but just go straight to the content. That actually leads to only one workable combination. I can understand that the PvdA sells the skin as a result of the election results and I also understand that the hope must be squeezed out of all the alternatives before we get there. In addition to the intensity, we cannot support the provision of information. While the informant spoke to the media every week, there was hardly anything to hear from the Chamber. It's gotta be different next time. The informant works for the Chamber, not for the NOS or RTL. Information is essential to the Chamber. I therefore ask that, in the next round, at least once a week, we report in writing on progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u14	With a great deal of drama, we heard on Monday evening that the formation broke down on incompatible positions on immigration. To find out that those views were incompatible, VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks apparently needed two months, including papa days. Okay, perhaps, but yesterday afternoon five FvD motions were put to a roll-call vote in this Chamber, all of which were constructive concrete measures to tackle immigration and illegality at last. In vain. CDA leader Buma immediately reported that the CDA would vote against five times and the VVD also failed. Halbe Zijlstra even referred to the roll-call vote of five motions as a circus. A circus, you have to dare, after these two parties for months staged a sham with acrobatic tours in the circus-Schippers with magician Rutte, cord dancer Buma, juggler Pechtold and clown Klaver. No, highly honored audience, for the real circus, you must be at the party cartel. What the course of this information shows is that the cartel parties are only playing a ghost game for the stage. Apparently, people still think people aren't seeing through this. The NPO supports itself and gambles that the electorate in the elections is once again in gardens with rhetoric as "normal act." Our impression is different. The Dutch people want the problems to be tackled vigorously and decisively, starting with immigration. It's possible. The only thing that stands in the way of this is the circus act that is performed here with the greatest possible listening. You yourself have abducted democracy. Your wings, they're no longer wings to fly with, they're just wings to blow air with. That is why I repeat the appeal made by the Forum for Democracy at the beginning of the formation. What the Netherlands now needs is a knowledge cabinet consisting of experts with knowledge and experience in their respective fields of activity, rather than cartel politicians who now happen to be next. The Forum for Democracy recommends that an authoritative non-political informant be appointed, who can explore the possibilities of such a knowledge cabinet with experts. I refer to our letter to the scout of 20 March last, in which we have already mentioned a number of people who, as far as we are concerned, would be eligible for such a knowledge cabinet. What the Lower House should do now is vote on the ten main themes themselves. What exactly do we want on all these major issues: immigration, EU, personal risk in healthcare, sustainability, innovation? What are majorities and what are they not available for? Put dots on the horizon, dare to give direction. So we can all try to find varying majorities at our own spearheads, whether left or right. That's how it's supposed to work in a democracy. Not through backrooms, government agreements and endless compromises, but simply through votes with varying majorities. Dare this! Dare to spread your democratic wings. Let democracy really work. Take your job as a representative of the people seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. I see the informant can answer directly. I give the floor to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. On 28 March, you commissioned me to investigate whether there was a coalition of the parties VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks. The majority in this Chamber had also advised this. With this everyone knew that an extremely complex assignment was given. A coalition representing a broad political spectrum also has major political differences. For a stable cabinet, it is important that these differences of opinion are not muffled away in general senses but put on the table and that solutions are sought. And it takes time. In my eyes, well spent time. Disagreements that have been covered up later lead to major problems in a cabinet, especially when it comes to the important issues of our time. We did not immediately get into the subjects and themes but started an analysis of society and the world in which we live. What are the problems we face? Where does the discontent that a significant part of society feel come from? Can we develop a shared vision and from there discuss the themes? That is important to have a common vision and a mission as a new coalition. There was also a great need for this among the negotiators in the first phase. Many of the differences in worldview and analyses can be bridged. It doesn't happen by itself; you have to work hard for that. We have not continued to negotiate all the themes completely to see how far we could get. Eventually it turned out that on the theme of migration there were several subjects where the differences were much smaller than perhaps thought by many, but that the last piece really turned out to be a bridge too far. And we didn't just accept that. Migration has been discussed five times. It is always ticking off on which there is agreement and funneling to what remains. There was simply too much left. Those last points have been discussed many times for the weekend and after, and in the end there was simply no room to solve these last points. Not within migration and not outside it, for example in relation to other themes. Migration is a very important theme in society, in politics, nationally and internationally. It's too big and too fundamental to leave unsolved. All parties have come out of their comfort zone in recent weeks and have really got to the bottom of parts, not only on this theme but also on other themes. I have a great deal of appreciation for this and I would also like to thank all the negotiators for it. It didn't work out, and that's too bad, but I still think it's valuable that it's been tried. Thank you for this honourable task, Mr President. My advice in the letter is to launch an exploratory round. I therefore recommend that we do so this week, because I think it is important for the pace to actually start working with a new team of negotiators next week. I have received several questions from Members, including Mr Asscher, who are now standing in front of the interrupting microphone. Those questions were also about substantive dilemmas and substantive themes and sub-themes that were on the table and how that went. But informant is a trusting position. If I violate that trust, for example, by telling you all sorts of things here about exactly where these differences were, on which themes and how far that went and between which parties, then that will seriously damage the confidence that is needed, not only now but perhaps still over years, the confidence that is so important for coalition formation and that there must be a source of information. So I can't do that as an informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u17	I am certainly not going to ask for something that Mrs Schippers cannot and not something that she does not want. I do ask for a tiny addition to the description of why migration went wrong. Was it a conflict of principle or not? Otherwise, it's gonna stay over the market. You don't have to say anything else here that would damage your position as a trustworthy informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u18	I can't fill in the principles for someone else. You will have to ask the negotiators yourself. If I do, I'm gonna fill it out for them. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's true; you're right. I should have asked you more precisely. But Mrs Schippers is a keen observer and has not been given this honorable role for nothing. She doesn't have to decide whether it was really principles or whether it's right. That is not at all up to her, but was it also her impression that there was a fundamental problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u20	My impression is that at least there was a gap that could not be bridged. The positions were too far apart. All sorts of things had been tried to move parties towards each other. At some point you will find that there are no more alternatives or solutions, that there are no more side paths and that it simply cannot be done. If I had seen loose ends and if I had thought that there was a solution that had been missed, I would never have accepted that we would stop this round. Absolutely not. Everyone has taken this task very seriously. All these negotiators really do not sit together those weeks, other than because they think the Netherlands needs it. It's not like they're clovering behind the doors instead of talking. Of course, it is not the case that only 18 days have been spoken. Outside there is also a meeting, but not in the Stadhouderskamer and perhaps not by all four parties. What was on the table was apparently so important for parties that they could not take that extra step that might have been necessary. Name the principle, or say the difference was simply impossible to bridge. I've said a lot about that last one. A number of questions have been asked to me. I have already replied to some of them in the introduction. This question has not been answered by the SP: can we get the information that was on the table during these negotiations? Normally, at the end of a formation, the formatter, not the informant, assesses what information goes to the Chamber. It is therefore not for me to decide on this in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u21	For the sake of clarity, I am not referring to information directly related to forming, but to the technical briefings given by officials on certain subjects. It simply contains facts and figures that are also important for other parties in the future. It's just actual cases, grade work. That's different from what's been exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u22	Those facts and figures are generally released after the formation. That's the exchange. I do not decide which pieces they are. That's ultimately up to the formatter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. Then I appeal to you to find them and send them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u24	I suggest you continue, Mrs. Schippers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think I've answered all the questions I've been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having taken note of the final report of informant E.I. Schippers and the opinion on the cabinet formation contained therein;]] [[Takes up the content of this opinion and appoints E.I. Schippers as an informant with the task of exploring in the short term the possibilities currently available for the formation of a cabinet which can count on fruitful cooperation with the States-General, indicating how this can be achieved, and reporting on this to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Mark Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u28	I find this complicated. I can imagine you taking note of the advice, but accepting the content of the opinion requires from the parties who have not sat at the table, something they cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u29	The 'opinion' concerns that part of the report that says: a further step must now be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u30	So don't...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u31	No. Of course, it's not what the four of us did. It's about what the informant writes about the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u33	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Clover? Mr. Roemer? Mr. Asscher? Mr Segers? Mrs Thieme? I see that Mrs Thieme has something to say. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks, we have heard an urgent call from various governments for a coalition to include the climate as an important part of the agreement. Such a call has also been made from our own political youth organisation. It's called the Terlouw Manifesto. I would very much like the Chamber to give a ruling on that Terlouw manifesto. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Terlouw Manifesto expresses a broad shared urgency with regard to a new government agreement to be formed;]] [[points out that the Terlouw manifesto should be the starting point in a new information mission for the formation of a new cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. The informant indicated that she had answered all the questions, but we also expressed a wish, namely that the Chamber should be informed on a weekly basis. We understand, of course, that negotiations are being conducted behind closed doors, and that means that we cannot ask for all information and that we cannot wish for all positions to come on the table or be included in a report, but rather better inform the Chamber about progress rather than the media, I think it is right. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, under Rule 139b of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber may, during the execution and after completion of a mission to the Cabinets, invite a (informator) to provide information on the (informative) process;]] [[Whereas the former informant provided weekly information to the media on the progress of the performance of its mission, but not to the Chamber;]] [[expresses its wish to be informed in writing by the informant at least once a week on the resumption of information discussions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. There is so much talent present in this country! There are so many people who have particular expertise on the concrete problems we have in this country with regard to health care, education, security, immigration and the euro coin. They could bring so much innovation to all these things! They could bring a lot of talent and knowledge into the government, but that doesn't happen because we're stuck in that party cartel job carousel. Those people think they're up for a ministerial post or a state secretariat and that they can cover things behind the scenes. I would like to table a motion in which we, as a Chamber, declare that we are going to change that. The motion reads:...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr Baudet, you must have the motion on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u39	I do not yet have the motion on paper, but the text is in the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u40	That's not how it works. You really need the motion on paper, so it'll be the next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u41	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u42	We'll look that up for you. We have written rules, but we also have unwritten rules. It is true that a motion should simply be distributed. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats should be able to discuss this matter. Just file a motion orally, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u43	Then I shall put the text on paper after I have informed the Chamber orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u44	It'll have to be for the vote later. The text may also be handwritten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u45	The motion is almost complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u46	We're going back to the old situation. An empty A4'. Look! It is also included in the Rules of Procedure, but I can imagine that you do not know it quite yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u47	The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[proposes to form a knowledge cabinet and to make a statement on the ten major issues themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u48	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you. As usual, we will vote immediately after this. The informant is not obliged to deal with the motions. That is not the intention, because this is really up to the Chamber. I'll suspend the sitting for ten minutes, then we'll vote on the motions.
