ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group is pleased to be able to hold this debate with the Minister on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. A lot of my colleagues would rather have it hammered off. This is, of course, legitimate, but in our view it does not do justice to the importance of the law before us, on the basis of which a country is added to which we then have a treaty obligation to provide military assistance. There is no case for a moment, according to my group. I would remind you of the debate we had here with Mr Taverne and this same minister just over a month ago. In that debate, the importance of the democratic legitimacy of far-reaching international treaties was widely underlined in this House. Mr President, as you know, there has been some hassle before this debate. I'd like to remind you of that here. The Minister is very busy even now, I see. Maybe that's why it's been a little fuss. The Chamber had itself proposed 7 March as the date for plenary debate, but then the Minister could not. It was not possible until March 28th at the earliest. So it was the 28th but then at the end of February, in the recess, suddenly came the urgent request whether it could not be done on 7 March. The Minister had suddenly realized that this was a very important law. Luckily, the First Chamber keeps its own agenda and does not let it trample over last minute because the Minister does not have his own agenda in order. But will it please be on the 21st, so today, and couldn't be on the 28th, and then immediately vote completely against the good practices of this house in the same day? Apparently, this treaty had to and would be steered by the Senate as soon as possible. None of this is a good performance in relation to my group. Not even because it was wrongly abroad that the First Chamber was deliberately delaying the examination of this bill. I assume that the Minister agrees with us that action by the Ministry here does not deserve a beauty prize. The question remains with the Minister: why? What's the rush? Why now with steam and boiling water a week earlier, and then vote immediately? As far as the Minister is concerned, is it really one week? And which and whose interests are involved? The Group of the Party of European Socialists is not convinced that it is almost justified, other than by the prestige of the Minister vis-à-vis some of his foreign colleagues and Mr Stoltenberg. If the Minister really had good reasons for this urgency with which he so caught us, why didn't he come forward with it sooner? Finally, this approval law has never been regarded as urgent. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister's hastiness to steer Montenegro's accession to NATO through the parliament is indicative of what is wrong with current NATO and the way in which at least the political majority in a number of Member States think about it. From this point of view, NATO is no longer primarily an alliance for the defence of its own territory, but has become an instrument of international power politics. Reference is made to the new dangers, from Putin to ISIS, but, in the perspective of the SP Group, the current era, with rising geopolitical tensions and global instability, requires rethinking, rethinking NATO's task and role. As part of this rethink, the North Atlantic expansion drive must also be re-examined. I would like to hear from the Minister whether, in recent developments, he sees such a rethinking as well. What is NATO doing on Earth? During the Cold War, the adagium "to keep the Russians out, the Americans in, and the Germans down" was written by the first secretary-general. Even after the fall of the Soviet Union, the unofficial goal was to keep the American people in and, now increasingly, the Russians out of it. But in 2017 we are dealing with an American president who does not seem to believe in this mission anymore and who has called NATO an outdated organisation. This is part of the risk of NATO entering an existential crisis. But the threat of a crisis also offers an opportunity, in this case an opportunity to reconsider. Not with the aim of abolishing NATO, but with the aim of transforming it into an organisation which fully respects the United Nations' monopoly of violence and which, within a reaffirmation of that monopoly of violence, is primarily limited to collective self-defense. Within a new global security structure that could then emerge, NATO could continue its efforts in conflict prevention and peacekeeping. A further expansion of NATO is currently poorly suited to this desired reform. On the contrary, in order to get to this process, we will have to recognise that NATO has gone the wrong way after the end of the Cold War. Instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to transform NATO into a genuine pan-European security organisation and a strengthened global security architecture, the double mistake has been made of double expansion. Firstly, the extension of the number of Member States from 16 to 28 for the break-up of the Soviet Union. With this enlargement, the peace capital released by Gorbachev gave up the Soviet empire has been lost and tensions with Russia have gradually re-emerged. Unfortunately, the warning from then VVD leader Bolkestein, twenty years and one month ago, that enlargement would damage the stability of Europe, has come true. At the same time, there has also been another expansion, as NATO has started to operate what is called "out of area' in the jargon. This has turned NATO under the leadership of the US into a global police officer. The capitulation of NATO to international law was the first victim when NATO bombed Serbia in 1999, including today's Montenegro. Then we also had the equally failed as a long adventure in Afghanistan and now NATO wants to get involved in the fight against ISIS. In my group's view, this dual expansion policy of NATO has not contributed to the peace and security of NATO and has derived it from its core task of collective self-defense. This expansion will therefore not come to an end in this cabinet for the time being. Montenegro, with around 600,000 inhabitants and less than 2,000 soldiers, must now be included as soon as possible, because the stability of Europe and our national security are at stake. Do you believe it yourself? In any case, the Minister has not yet been able to convince my group of the advantages of Montenegro's accession. Disadvantages and risks we can see. We have asked the Minister in writing about this, but we have not received many real answers. So I'm just gonna try again. Will accession to NATO really strengthen the stability of the Balkans? What does accession mean for a possible eventual accession of Serbia to NATO? Will that be brought closer if Montenegro moves ahead of Serbia? How does the Minister assess the desirability of joining other countries in the Western Balkans, including Serbia? The Minister stated in his reply on the strengthening of democracy in Montenegro through the accession process and its positive impact on the region. Will it really help Montenegro to become a stable democracy? So far Montenegro is neither very stable nor very democratic. The country is judged by Freedom House as "partially free" and is 106th on the press release index of Reporter Without Borders. Former Prime Minister Djukanović, who ruled the country for about a quarter of a century, until the end of last year, and is still considered a strong man, was declared "person of the year" by a well-known Eastern European NGO and watchdog in the field of corruption and organised crime in 2015, ironically, because of his "deserve" in the field of promoting organised crime and corruption, and the construction of "one of the most dedicated kleptocracies and organised crime ports in the world." On what basis is the Minister so optimistic about building democracy in Montenegro? I'd like a response. What stick, we ask the Minister, does NATO actually have behind the door to further promote the reform process to which the Minister refers in his reply once Montenegro has joined? What does NATO actually add to Montenegro's accession to the EU? In the meantime, political stability in Montenegro is declining. The growing political unrest and instability of the still young independent republic has much, if not everything, to do with the planned accession. With regard to the planned NATO membership, the country has been divided to the bone, with some 40% in favour and 40% against. The latter group is also more Russia-oriented and fears deteriorating relations with that country. That fear does not seem unfounded. What is more important to us is that Montenegro's accession can also have a negative impact on relations in the Balkans as a whole and on NATO's already very tense relationship with Russia. In recent years, a new cold war has been set in motion on both sides. It is dangerous that political differences are increasingly translated into military tensions. There has been a military build-up on both sides, especially in the past year. NATO has seen the greatest reinforcement of troops and equipment on Russia's borders since the end of the Cold War. How does the Minister weigh this militarisation of relations with Russia? Does he not see the danger of us being sucked back into the logic of the Cold War, including an arms race? Meanwhile, enlargement of NATO remains a standing policy, to be reaffirmed with Montenegro's accession as the 29th member. Does the Minister simply not see these risks of increasing tensions with Russia, for example, or is he aware that these disadvantages do not outweigh the benefits? Could he perhaps make the cost-benefit analysis a little more explicit? The SP Group fears that Montenegro has become a toy in an international power struggle, a battle for spheres of influence in the Balkans. After the geopolitical strut around Ukraine, with all the consequences of that, we now see a similar kind of strut around the nipple of Montenegro. This is not the strategic prize, but obviously important in the expansionist logic of current NATO. Let us be clear: it is also Russia that is pulling the strings here and, although many of the claims made still have to be substantiated, may have a dubious role to play in awakening the unrest in Montenegro and thus destabilising the country. The reaction in many NATO capitals, and I suspect so too from many groups in this House, is to say: then we are pulling that rope even harder. I understand that, too. It's a human reaction once you start that game of rope pulling. However, the question is whether it is sensible. The question is, isn't it better to let go of that rope? The SP Group does not think that the national security of the Netherlands will be compromised or that the alliance will be weakened. Nor do we believe that Montenegro will become even more unstable in this case. Maybe... on the contrary. It is also nonsense to say that we are handing Montenegro over to the Russian bear. Montenegro does not need NATO to gradually develop towards a stable democracy integrated into Europe. We do not want to keep that perspective from the Montenegrins at all, but we think that there are other and better ways of doing so than what would at best be premature NATO membership at the moment. Nor does NATO membership guarantee any further development of democracy or even the prevention of a deterioration in the democratic rule of law. Erdogan's Turkey is making so much sense, while Trump's America is threatening the same danger. The regression that we see in these two countries in this area is discrediting NATO as a whole and attacking the alliance from the inside. Adding Montenegro as the 29th member will not change that. On the contrary, by bringing in the unrest in this Balkan country, we are also increasing the unrest within the treaty organisation. Don't we already have our hands full with Turkey and Trump? What is even more important is that the tensions in the Balkans themselves will increase rather than decrease and that we will unnecessarily intensify relations with Russia. Conversely, stopping this twitching, pressing this arm to show whose sphere of influence the Balkans is, will provide an opportunity to improve and de-escalate relations with Russia and will put us in a stronger position to keep putting Putin in a strong position where necessary. In conclusion, it is clear that the SP Group as a whole is not yet convinced that it is now appropriate or sensible to extend NATO to Montenegro. As always, however, we look forward to the Minister's reply in perhaps one of his last appearances in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. With the adoption of the present protocol governing Montenegro's accession to NATO, the 29th Member State is represented. For my group, this accession cannot be separated from an international security strategy which is necessary to ensure peace, stability and development in Europe and at its borders. The expansion of NATO as a military alliance is not an end in itself for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but a possible means of promoting peace and stability through cooperation. No country in Europe is, as we believe, capable of achieving this on its own. At the southern borders of Europe, instability has only increased in recent years. At the eastern borders there is a power play about spheres of influence and there has been an annexation. And there is a lot of uncertainty about the role that the US wants to play on the international stage of peace and security. The latter is confirmed by the news from a few hours ago that US Secretary Tillerson would rather travel to Russia and China next month than visit a NATO meeting. Those aren't reassuring messages. In these circumstances, my group can, in principle, support the strengthening of European cooperation, even if it means the accession of a Member State to NATO in the Balkans, if it is able to take permanent steps in the area of democratisation, the development of the rule of law and stable economic development, and if this development really contributes to strengthening stability and greater security in the region, especially for the Montenegrins themselves. The cabinet talks about the developments in Montenegro in quite laudable terms. But the GroenLinks group has been hearing critical noises for a long time, for example about the democratic content of the leadership over the last quarter century of Milo Djukanovic and the circle of family and faithful around him and about persistent corruption, which has not just been eliminated. Does the Cabinet know these sounds and, if so, how does it judge them? We would like to hear from the Minister how he is currently looking at democratic development and tackling corruption in the country. Is the status quo sufficiently positive or does he agree with our group that further development is essential in the areas of democratisation, the fight against corruption and the strengthening of security? It is not yet on the agenda, but as a litmus test, it is interesting to see whether, for example, the country would already meet the requirements imposed on Member States by the EU, of which Montenegro has been a candidate since 2010. I also refer to the concerns expressed by the European Parliament about the slow pace of reform and the lack of concrete results. The EU Parliament also expressed increasing concerns about Russian attempts to use influence in Montenegro, for example in the elections last year. Does the Minister know these signals and can he indicate how NATO membership will put a brake on Russian interference in the country and further on in the Balkans? A demand made to prospective NATO members is that there should also be stability at the borders. In the debate on international security last autumn in the First Chamber, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance expressed its concerns about the situation in Kosovo. There still seems to be a process of radicalisation going on. The country has the highest proportion of residents who have travelled as ISIS fighters. Can the Minister say again how he is looking specifically at the situation in Kosovo now? And can he also outline in a more general sense what developments he is seeing in the Balkans? The lack of perspective and poor economic prospects can easily lead to further destabilisation and extremism. My group has already drawn attention to this in the General European Reviews and our concerns have certainly not been removed. In addition to Russian, often destabilising interferences, concerns are also topical from a Dutch perspective about the increasing influence that NATO partner President Erdogan is trying to exert on the Balkans, especially towards the Turkish minorities there. Does the Cabinet share this concern? My group does not want to throw oil on the fire, on the contrary, but this also plays a role in the search for stability in the region. We see cooperation, particularly at European level, as necessary in the search for security and stability. Montenegro's accession to NATO in the relatively unstable Balkans, where third countries are working to increase their sphere of influence, may be a means of doing so. Nor do we regard this accession as an extension of NATO to the east, but given the geographical situation, it is more like filling in a white spot. This raises the question of whether the Minister is planning further enlargements of NATO in the Balkans in the coming years, and what are the possibilities and possible geopolitical consequences of this. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u4	Madam President. We are discussing a subject here today, Montenegro's accession to NATO, which has received little attention in the media and in the public debate, but which is certainly not of importance. We are talking here about the accession of a country, Montenegro, to a political-military alliance, which provides the basis for close political and military cooperation with Montenegro in the three key tasks of NATO: crisis management, cooperation with countries outside NATO and collective defence, including the obligation to assist under Article 5 of the Washington Convention. Our country's security will therefore be closely linked to Montenegro's security. The D66 Group therefore welcomes the fact that a debate is taking place on this subject today and that we are not talking about a hammer piece here. The policy of our country and its partners and allies in the EU and NATO has been there for the last 25 years, after the fall of the Wall, to promote stability, democracy and economic growth in the former communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe, with the prospect of accession to NATO and the EU. Motto was able to export stability without importing instability. In the case of Montenegro, the main concern is that much remains to be done in the process of internal reforms, and that so potentially Montenegrin's membership of the alliance would lead to instability and uncertainty being imported. Although the recent parliamentary elections have gone well, the process of reform in a number of areas is slow, such as the fight against corruption and crime and the strengthening of the rule of law and good governance. It is therefore a good thing that the accession talks under the Membership Action Plan have resulted in an overview of the political, economic and military reforms necessary for the alliance, with a timetable for its implementation. In addition, the European Union pays close attention to these issues in the context of the accession negotiations. The subject remains high on the agenda. We don't have to be afraid that the attention will loosen up. The D66 Group would urge the government to continue to press for further progress in domestic reforms in bilateral contacts with the Montenegrin authorities. Our country represents Montenegro in the IMF and the World Bank and has a special relationship with that country, which may be useful in this discussion with Montenegro. I'd like to get a reaction from the government. As I have just said, not only NATO but also the EU underlines the need for more progress in internal reforms in Montenegro. This does not mean, however, that membership of NATO naturally leads to membership of the European Union. These are two entirely different paths, each with its own content, priorities and timetable. Nor is membership of NATO a gateway to membership of the European Union, nor does Montenegro qualify for membership of the European Union. That is far from the case. Mr Van Apeldoorn also spoke about this; at least he asked a question about it, if I remember correctly. The other starting point for NATO enlargement, which I have just mentioned, is therefore one element: no imports of instability are exports of stability. In my group's view, this is the case in three respects when Montenegro joins NATO. Firstly, membership of NATO serves not only the military security of the country but also a clear political direction. This clarity will benefit the necessary internal reforms and will make it interesting for business and tourism to invest in the country. This will in turn stimulate economic growth in Montenegro and thus promote stability in the country. The latter was also the experience of the creation of NATO itself: the reassurance and confidence in the future that the creation of NATO brought Western European countries ultimately led to 30 years of political stability and economic growth. Secondly, Montenegrin's membership of NATO must also be seen in the context of the growing instability in the whole region of the Western Balkans. This has already been discussed by Mr Lintmeijer, among others. I am thinking, for example, of the internal tensions in countries such as Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Kosovo. The possibility of new conflicts in the region cannot be excluded. In addition, the lack of prospects for a better future due to ethnic contradictions, political conflicts and economic stagnation leads to an influx of economic refugees to other countries in Europe, including the Netherlands, from the Western Balkans. More cooperation between the countries there, and with NATO and the EU, will promote stability and economic growth in the region. Montenegrin's membership of NATO supports that necessary cooperation. Thirdly, Montenegro's accession to NATO must also be seen in the light of Putin's Russia's attitude. His policy is to become the main player in the region, and Moscow promotes instability in several countries in the region. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Moscow supported the referendum organised by the Bosnian Serbs which opened the door to a possible separation from the Serbian part of Bosnia, which would put an end to the Dayton agreement. The Serbian media reports that Putin has a plan for Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina to become neutral states, a buffer zone between NATO and Russia. Accession to NATO of independent countries such as Montenegro, and in the past Slovenia, Croatia and Albania, is being aggressively criticised for threatening Russia. A slightly ridiculous reasoning, I think, but I believe that has been said before. Montenegro is threatened by economic sanctions. There was also an assassination attempt on Prime Minister Djukanovic, who was in favour of joining NATO. The Montenegrin authorities have concluded after a few months of investigation that Moscow is behind this attack. The British Government is of the same opinion. Membership of NATO, supported by a large majority of Parliament, would therefore improve stability in the region as it removes uncertainty about Montenegro's position and direction. In this context, the members of my group have another question about the ratification process in the United States of Montenegro's accession to NATO. I note from press releases that this process is currently stalling in Washington and that members of the U.S. Senate are concerned that the Trump administration seems to be in little hurry to ratify. What is the state of play in Washington at this point? What are the expectations that the US will soon ratify? I come to the end of my speech. At the heart of the matter is for the members of the D66 Group whether the countries of Eastern Europe, including the Balkans, will retain the space to determine their own course in political, economic and social terms. It is not a question of if Russia is against anything, that is why we should be in favour of it. But several international agreements and declarations, such as the Helsinki Final Act, state that each country has the right to decide whether it wants to be a member of an alliance or not. In the opinion of my group, this also applies to Montenegro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the First Chamber for their contribution in the first term. We are indeed meeting today to discuss Montenegro's accession to NATO. It is good that the Eerste Kamer placed this subject on the agenda relatively soon after the discussion in the Lower House. I would also like to thank her for the opportunity to discuss it today. There is not so much depth behind that, I say in the direction of the SP Group. It is important to coordinate the international agendas. I am glad that we can talk and vote on this today. In May there will be a NATO summit. It is important that the Netherlands should be able to send a signal to Montenegro as to whether or not it agrees to Montenegro's possible NATO membership. Since 2014, there have been major changes in the world around us. The present time is not a moment to sit still. NATO faces threats from both the south and the east. It is precisely now that we are at a geopolitical turning point that we must continue to look strategically at how we can guarantee our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u6	I would like to return to the answer given by the Minister to my first question, namely why we need to deal with this today, on 21 March, and why we need to vote on it today. The Ministry has certainly put some pressure on us to deal with this today and not next week. They would have preferred to have dealt with this before, on 7 March. The Minister's answer is that there is not a lot of depth behind it. But he then refers to the NATO summit in May. So, ultimately, it comes to the NATO summit in May. If we deal with it next week, it will take more than two months for the NATO summit to take place. Why does this have to be treated with steam and boiling water today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u7	There is no reason for "with steam and boiling water." We have tried to find a solution with each other so that we can do so as soon as possible. I just said there was a NATO summit in May. There is also legislation that makes it possible to request a referendum on this subject. There are also periods for this. We're sticking to the law. In that sense, it is important that we do not wait too long. The House of Representatives passed this bill by an overwhelming majority. It is important to operate properly internationally. Apart from the United States and Spain, we are also looking at the Netherlands. Does the Netherlands agree or not? Montenegro has waited a long time. It first had the MAP status. Negotiations have been held for a very long time and debates have been held in December 2015 and December 2016. It is important to make some progress on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u8	The Minister points out that it is important to make some progress on this, but the way this has been done does not deserve the beauty prize as far as we are concerned. We have heard the argument of a referendum before. A period of two months shall apply. Article 2 of the Approval Act states that the Act shall enter into force from the first day of the third month following the date of issue of the Official Journal in which it is placed. If the law is placed in the Official Journal by the end of this month, are we talking on the basis of this article about June 1st? Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u9	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u10	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u11	In that light, I do not understand the rush, because this treaty will not enter into force until after the NATO summit in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u12	To be honest, I do not have so much more to add to the reasoning I have already put forward. It is important that we make progress on what we agree internationally. Montenegro has also made a request to this effect. I can understand that Montenegro wants to send a clear signal to its people. I therefore very much appreciate that we can talk about this today. Over the past period, there has been a relative calm in the Western Balkans, especially in comparison with the 1990s. I would like to underline the word'relative'. However, relative calm is not yet sustainable stability. The Western Balkans have taken great steps forward since the devastating wars in the 1990s, partly thanks to the Euro-Atlantic perspective offered to them. You could say that this has had a conflict prevention effect. However, it remains a very vulnerable region. All Members referred to this. I am thinking, for example, of the problem of returning foreign fighters. That is indeed a problem. It also highlighted the situation in Kosovo, cross-border crime and the migration crisis. These issues, of course, affect the Netherlands directly. I am also very aware of Russia's broader geopolitics in the Western Balkans. I don't think anyone can deny that. The region's links with Russia have traditionally been established, particularly in Serbia, Montenegro and Republika Srpska. Recently, Russia appears to have increased efforts to exert its influence, sometimes visible and sometimes less visible. The region surrounded by the alliance is of strategic importance. It is essential to maintain the region's Euro-Atlantic course through continued engagement. NATO must also continue to invest in the region. We must therefore continue to work closely with our partners in the region. That's what they want. Think of NATO's cooperation relationship with Serbia. I come to Montenegro's accession. As we know, this has been preceded by a long process, the so-called MAP process. They have been preparing for NATO membership for a long time. On 2 December 2015, Montenegro was invited to accession negotiations for NATO membership. On 19 May 2016, NATO Foreign Ministers signed the Accession Protocol. The cabinet informed the Lower House of this, including through the reports of the relevant NATO ministerial. The members of the Supreme Court have had them, too. In December, a very large majority of the House of Representatives agreed to the accession of Montenegro. This accession is a logical follow-up to the wider NATO strategy in the Western Balkans. Since the 1990s, NATO has made an important contribution to stability in the region. Previously, Slovenia, Croatia and Albania joined in 2009. It is in the interest of the Netherlands that Montenegro should also be embedded in the Euro-Atlantic structures and that NATO should continue to work on good cooperation relations with other countries in the Western Balkans that are not members of NATO. These are in particular Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. That is what happens with that, by the way. Welcoming Montenegro's choice for NATO is important. It is a strong message from NATO to other countries in the region. NATO's message is that they are welcome under strict conditions and that NATO is prepared to embrace those countries that seriously reform their systems and support NATO values. I will come back to those specific reforms later. The message is also that NATO remains committed to the open door policy, I say to the spokesperson of the SP Group. NATO encourages democratic reforms and defence reforms of prospective alliances. Montenegro's accession thus contributes to stability in a historically very divided region at the borders of the alliance. This is also in the interest of the Netherlands. All neighbouring countries are actually convinced that this is a good thing. There is therefore no difference of opinion, not even with a country like Serbia. It is at least as strong a message to those who believe that countries should not be able to choose for themselves. It is the free will of the Montenegrin people, of the parliament, to make and submit this choice again. As we all know, Moscow has no respect for NATO's enlargement as far as I am concerned. The SP spokesperson seems to think so, but I do not think so. NATO cannot afford for Montenegro to be heavily under Russian influence and thereby stray from the reform path that has been put in place. This would instantly trigger further instability in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u13	The Minister said that the SP Group seems to think that Russia has some sort of veto right. That is, of course, completely incorrect. I didn't say that at all. On the basis of NATO treaty, we would argue that it is up to each country to determine whether another country is welcome or not and under what conditions. The NATO Treaty states that NATO can only be extended by consensus. The right of veto does not lie with Moscow, but not with a country that might wish to join, such as Montenegro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u14	I'm glad to hear that's not your opinion. Your considerations are very similar to those of the Russian Federation, but it is good to hear that this is not the point you wish to make today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u15	The way in which the Minister interprets my words gives us thought. I would like to ask the Minister about the relationship with Russia. Does the Minister see a possible risk of worsening relations with Russia as a result of Montenegro's accession? And, if so, does he see that as something that you should increase as a related cost in the cost-benefit analysis as a result of whether it is sensible or not that Montenegro joins?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u16	Honestly, I can't judge that. That depends on the Russian Federation. It is the Montenegrin government that, even after two elections, chooses to join NATO. If Montenegro then meets the requirements, it is a free choice of a country and then it is up to others to assess whether they are making a problem of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr Van Apeldoorn, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u18	The Minister is familiar with the Russian position in this matter, isn't he? Do I really have to understand that the Dutch Foreign Minister says: "Montenegro is free to join NATO We do not judge the geopolitical consequences and the possible tensions that this creates; we see it. It may cause tensions with Russia, and it may not. We have no idea, but we do not take that further into account in our consideration and consideration"? Is that how I understand the Minister's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u19	No, that's a misinterpretation, because I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u20	Perhaps the Minister could explain that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u21	I'd be happy to. That's what I was doing. I have just explained in detail why I believe that it is important for the stability of NATO and of the Balkans and because of the democratic desire of the people that Montenegro should become a member of NATO. There is almost unanimity in NATO on this. The point is that we also have a geographical entity from Faro to Istanbul and that there is clarity about that. There is no problem with neighbouring countries in this respect. It is a free wish of the people and of parliament. I do not think it would be appropriate for the Dutch Government, which itself sees the importance of this, to say that this is not the case. We are, of course, making an assessment of whether there will be geostrategic or other consequences, but that is very difficult to estimate. I do not know exactly what the Russian sphere of influence should be in Montenegro, what exactly Russian interests there are and whether, in view of what we have heard about the attempted coup, the Russians want to seek other ways of giving Montenegro a reduction in quality. That's up to them. I agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists that this is not the only thing in itself when it comes to the relationship between NATO and the Russian Federation. The Dutch Government is in favour of the NATO-Russia Council. It is also in favour of discussions with Russia, both at military and political level, with regard to a large number of interests, whether anti-terrorism measures, Syria, arms control, the Open Skies Treaty or transparency. The Dutch Government has put forward proposals for this. I am in favour of cooperation with the Russian Federation wherever possible, but that is something other than giving the Russian Federation the troit de respect at the express request of the Montenegrin government. I come to a number of questions that have been asked in that context. We welcome Montenegro's choice. I am familiar with the coverage in international media, including the British newspaper The Telegraph, based on sources from the United Kingdom about Russian involvement in the alleged coup attempt. Research will have to determine to what extent these messages are well-founded. It is now up to the courts in Montenegro to clarify what is happening. The Special Prosecutor of Montenegro Katnic did point out Russian involvement. I think it would be serious if this were the case. I am therefore not at all naive about the role of Russia in that region; it is important to underline that in this debate. But, of course, it's about justice. Montenegro will address that case through the Special Prosecutor before 15 April. He seems to have made a complaint against 25 people. I support the Montenegrin authorities in their legal approach and welcome their appreciation of the cooperation of the Serbian authorities. It's a good thing there's no problem. The SP Group is right about the Russian position with regard to Montenegro's NATO membership. Montenegro wants to be part of the Euro-Atlantic structure. A majority of the population is in favour of accession. Russia has not been able to explain to any Member State the security interests at stake. Montenegro is geographically far from Russian borders. As far as I am concerned, Moscow's arguments do not go far enough. I also believe that the argument that territorial differences between Montenegro and neighbouring countries such as Albania and Croatia would hinder NATO membership of Montenegro is not valid. Montenegro's neighbours, already members of NATO, Albania and Croatia, have agreed to join Montenegro. In fact, the foreign ministers of Croatia and Albania have recently sent me a letter in which they advocate Montenegro's accession to NATO as an important development for stability in the region. I think this is important, because I am saying this to Mr Van Apeldoorn, because this is precisely the reason to say that it will increase stability when we see problems in the Balkans. In spite of differences of opinion, Albania and Croatia are therefore taking precedence over the importance of regional stability. Moreover, any territorial differences in themselves have never been an obstacle to NATO membership. Many countries have this, but it is nevertheless important in this context to appoint the position of neighbouring countries. Serbia has also expressed no difficulty with Montenegrin accession. Serbia respects Montenegro's independence and its neighbours' Euro-Atlantic aspirations. It is the wish of the Dutch government that Montenegro should become the 29th NATO member. Moreover, I would like to say that there is no prospect of further expansion of the alliance in the near future in view of the criteria and positions of different countries at present. 25 out of 28 allies have now parliamentaryly approved the protocol for Montenegro's accession to NATO. A large number of countries have already completed the formal ratification procedure. Only the United States, Spain and the Netherlands have yet to complete the parliamentary approval process. This is expected in Spain in the short term. The US Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs has now approved the protocol. There is still a plenary vote to follow. I will be briefed on that. I'm traveling to the United States tonight. We will discuss this tomorrow morning to see how the debate is going. I do not have any other information on this at the moment. According to the contacts we have so far, at least with the Secretary-General of NATO, this is and remains the procedure. I'd like to take a look at that tomorrow. In response to the questions raised by the Chamber on reform, I repeat that this is an important point. On 2 December 2015, Montenegro was invited to accession negotiations with a view to membership. This has been preceded by a six-year journey. Montenegro now meets the requirements of the NATO Treaty, but does not meet the requirements of the EU Treaty, as many additional conditions still need to be met. That is not at all the issue right now. Montenegro wants and can contribute to Euro-Atlantic security. The country is already doing this in the context of Resolute Support. As indicated, Montenegro has launched and implemented an impressive reform policy in recent years. In reply to the written questions, I have already addressed the reforms that Montenegro has implemented both at EU and NATO level. These processes are not only interconnected, they also reinforce each other. Let me give you some examples: the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-corruption Agency, established to fight corruption cases and organised crime, the constitutional reforms in 2013 and the adoption of a law in 2015 for a national recruitment system for judges. I can give another example: the elections in October 2016 carried out in accordance with the new electoral law. NATO has carefully monitored and assessed this reform process. The general consensus is that the reforms needed have been implemented satisfactorily and in accordance with the commitments made with Montenegro. We do want them to become even more substantial; the accession negotiations at the beginning of 2016 discussed what should be in the programme for ongoing reforms. This programme committed Montenegro to continuing reforms in specific areas, such as military capacity building and the rule of law development. The reform targets for, and if necessary after, accession are provided with action plans and deadlines. Montenegro shall keep allies informed of progress, with a quarterly update. For the Netherlands, there are specific concerns: the development of the rule of law and freedom of the media. Of course, we also have all kinds of bilateral contacts, to which Mr van den Broek referred. They're in the election group. This means that for years we have been very involved in the reforms in Podgorica on all these elements, such as economic reform policy and a number of issues relating to the rule of law and the predictability of legislation. NATO will continue to support Montenegro in the reform process, but does not shy away from critical questions. The Netherlands is also very involved in the reporter Jovo Martinovic. His trial finally began after a year of detention in October. We will continue to monitor this matter very closely bilaterally, stressing, of course, the importance of a fair trial. It has also been said that we must export stability and prevent imports of instability as far as possible. I think this is indeed important. You must also want Montenegro to make a positive contribution to security itself. This is now being done through the NATO mission in Afghanistan and through a contribution to the Resolute Support mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u22	I would like to return to Montenegro's progress on the rule of law and democracy. Several organizations have different views on this than the Minister. Anyway, there may have been progress. The Minister says that Montenegro meets the requirements and can join, because it shares our values to a sufficient extent. There are some comments to be made. More needs to be done, says the Minister. He agrees with the SP Group on this. In the first instance, I explicitly asked which stick NATO has behind the door to ensure this. The Minister points out that we continue to monitor that and that there are deadlines, but what if Montenegro doesn't meet those deadlines? Will Montenegro be expelled from NATO again or will sanctions be applied? What instruments does NATO have at its disposal to ensure that such progress is actually made and not reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u23	Perhaps I can make two comments on that. The first point is that Montenegro is currently meeting the requirements. The second is that when a country falls back, for example in the area of the rule of law or when there are discussions about standards and values, which can be debated. Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned a number of other allies where issues are; an example in recent months is Turkey. It's always possible. We believe it is important that, regardless of the fact that they are met, progress is still being made on a number of points. This is proactively monitored by NATO, but the country meets the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u24	We agree that Montenegro needs to make further progress. The Minister says it can be debated, see Turkey. To what extent does the Minister agree with us that there is a real risk that we will import this instability, in Mr Dankert's words? Is there a plan B? Or does the Minister assume that in the end it will be easy and that there is little real risk that we will import this instability?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u25	We are weighing up rather strict NATO requirements, and that is what we are meeting. We believe that NATO membership will then be an incentive for stability itself. In addition, two parliaments have called for the ratification of NATO membership to continue. If we didn't do that all of a sudden, it might be destabilizing. There are therefore many reasons to believe that it is stabilising rather than causing instability. There are always rules and standards and values of NATO that can be addressed by the Member States. Then I almost got to the end of my contribution. Perhaps it is still important to point out to all Members that Montenegro would like to become a member of NATO itself. Parliament has twice endorsed this course by means of resolutions. The parliamentary elections of 16 October 2016, ten years after Montenegro's independence, were once again an important milestone. The winning parties are right behind the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. The new government led by Prime Minister Marković has already indicated that NATO accession and EU accession are a strategic priority for this government. Part of the opposition also supports the NATO process. They are convinced that this path will enable a more stable and prosperous Montenegro. As I have just said, Montenegro is opting not only for the security guarantee that NATO membership entails, but also for a stronger and more democratic Montenegro, in which the rule of law is better guaranteed. That brings me to the question of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance whether I am concerned about that region. Yes. That is why I found it so important that the neighbouring countries do not have a problem or a problem. agree to NATO membership and cooperate with them. We do see risks for the region. That's because they don't know what's going on. Is there a future EU membership or not? What is the impact of Turkey and the Russian Federation? What happens to the return of foreign terrorist fighters? How can they ensure that their rule of law development continues and is strengthened? In that context, you need to make a strategic assessment. The Dutch Government considers that membership contributes to the stability of that region and the security of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u26	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. We are not convinced by the Minister's answer to the question as to why there is so much haste behind this debate. On the basis of Article 2 of the bill, we understand that, from the Minister's point of view, we will be too late with the entry into force of this law, because it will take place after the NATO summit, which seems to be very important. Moreover, it is still waiting for the U.S. Senate, which now has to deal with this in full debate and agree with a two-thirds majority. Finally, on the basis of the protocol, it is for the US Government to notify the other NATO Member States of the entry into force of accession. In other words, it remains waiting for the United States. That could well be well beyond the NATO summit in May. In this respect, we still do not understand why the Minister is in such a hurry. There's another thing I need to get off my chest. It seems to me today that, both in the run-up to this debate and during this debate, I noticed whether it is not done to speak critically about NATO and to question the self-evidentness with which others accept the existence of rival blocs of power. The Minister now says that the SP actually feels exactly the same as Moscow and that Moscow is given a right of veto. I'm throwing that far from me. The question is whether NATO is contributing to a stable and peaceful world. In what way can this best be designed? That's what the discussion is about. It's not about how we feel about Putin. A colleague of this minister's Social Democrat, Gerhard Schröder, once said that Putin is a wool-painted democrat. At that time, I was excited about that remark. Earlier, I would describe Putin as a wool-painted autocrat. But none of that is on the table right now. What matters is whether the accession of Montenegro and the whole enlargement at all contribute to the stability of relations in Europe. I referred earlier to the ruling of then VVD leader Bolkestein, who warned that it would destabilise relations in Europe. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. Has the enlargement of NATO over the last 20 years contributed to the stability of Europe and of world peace, yes or no? How does he view Montenegro's accession for the Balkans, the region and Europe as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u28	I do have a certain problem with the position that Mr Van Apeldoorn has set out here, in the sense that he is totally approaching one side of the matter, namely everything that has been done wrong by NATO, the West and perhaps also by the EU, if I sum up briefly. He's easily ignoring the other scenarios. We are not talking about Russia right now, but what if none of the major powers, either NATO or the EU, is really going to deal with the Western Balkans, does Mr Van Apeldoorn think that stability will fall on the region? No, I think the opposite is true, namely that the risk of conflicts is greater in the absence of the EU and NATO than in the presence of the EU and NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u29	That remains to be seen when it comes to NATO. I have also argued that it is not the case that we would not think that Montenegro should be given a chance to develop into a stable democracy integrated into Europe. As far as we are concerned, Montenegro is, of course, part of Europe. We do not have a debate today on Montenegro's possible EU membership. Of course, it is not a question of leaving some sort of vacuum in the Balkans and not of interfering with it from the Netherlands or from the EU at all. The only question is whether accession to NATO will contribute to further stabilisation of this region and to stability in Europe. I think I've been clear about that. In this context, we are also critical of the current role of NATO. I have also asked the Minister to reconsider, precisely in the context of the present time frame. He didn't go into that. I would just like to remind you that there was a time when the SP was not alone in this critical attitude towards NATO and we also found the PvdA on our side. Anyway, that was a different time with another PvdA. Thus, former NATO critics have become increasingly NATO-minded, but as a SP Group, we continue to work for a sustainable, safer world without military blocs and for the effective removal of the UN's monopoly on violence. At the moment, we are in a situation where we are moving towards increasing tensions and an arms race, demanding a further increase in defence expenditure, while NATO is already 70% responsible for global defence spending, of which 253 billion is spent by the European part of NATO, which is almost four times as much as Russia spends on defence. I have not heard further from the Minister whether he agrees with us on this point that we should look again at the role of NATO. With regard to Montenegro's own accession, reference has been made to the open door policy. It has been stated that there are strict conditions that Montenegro must meet and that Montenegro complies with and that Montenegro shares our values. I repeat that Montenegro is being judged by international organisations as a crippled democracy where there is little freedom of the press and which is a safe haven for organised crime and corruption. So what NATO terms are we talking about? If Montenegro meets these conditions, then my question to the Minister is which other countries will comply with it. Does Ukraine, for example, already comply with this and could Ukraine's accession, according to the Minister, be on the agenda? No, we are not laying down the right of veto with Moscow. We would point out once again that it is not only Montenegro, or any other country, that wants to join NATO, to decide whether or not to belong to NATO, but that this is ultimately a decision of all NATO's sovereign Member States, which will have to be decided by consensus. In this respect, I would once again like to reject the Minister's suggestion that this is about following the Moscow line. Perhaps the Minister could once again address the question of why Montenegro meets the requirements and what other countries might still be affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. My group notes that stability in the Balkans and specifically in the Montenegro region is both our concern and that we cannot easily ignore it. I would also like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that, on the contrary, my group is always in favour of a European solution as much as possible, including in the area of military integration and cooperation. We only see in a realistic scenario that NATO is currently a means of working on it, but that it is not an end in itself. The paradox of this time is perhaps that we are as concerned about the Russian side's interventions as we are about the interventions of the Turkish allies in the Balkans who, in turn, are not contributing to that stability. In this sense, the geopolitical picture has not become easier. Finally, I would like to say something about the position of the United States and today's news that the Foreign Minister would rather skip the NATO meeting next month because he has more important things to do, namely to go to Russia or China. The way in which NATO is currently being looked at from the other side of the Atlantic does not reassure us. Perhaps the Minister could give a brief thought to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u31	Is the Minister able to answer directly? That's the case. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their second term. I believe, quite frankly, that we do not agree on the moment, on haste or no rush. I try, also from a Dutch perspective, to act as quickly as possible. Of course, this NATO summit is important in this respect. Waiting for the United States has never been a signal to me. We also have our own responsibility. I think it is important and also very much appreciate that the discussion can take place in the First Chamber today. I would like to make a few comments on Mr Van Apeldoorn's questions. There are a number of misunderstandings. He talked about NATO, the United Nations and the European Union. Here is a minister who believes in the United Nations, based on collective security, if necessary on Article 7 of the UN Charter and on the great contribution made by the Netherlands to UN peacekeeping operations. So it is not either the UN or NATO or the European Union; we are members of all three organisations. In the UN, we will even be members of the Security Council next year. We're an active player in NATO territory. Are we NATO critics? Yes. The Netherlands is the only country that has initially decided to participate in the negotiations on a nuclear weapons ban. There is no other NATO country that does this. I therefore say, with all due respect for Mr Van Apeldoorn's second term contribution, that now the picture shows that the Netherlands never makes a critical note of NATO is really based on nothing. We don't see NATO as an organization against the Russian Federation. NATO is a collective security organization. The Russian Federation is not our enemy. Let's make that very clear. I do not see it that way and the Dutch Government does not see it that way. However, we do have a collective security concept which, in addition to operations outside the Convention Area, is part of NATO's role. Article 5 of the NATO Treaty has indeed become more important because of a number of hybrid activities of the Russian Federation in the Baltic States. We don't see the Russian Federation as an enemy. I have just said how we are trying to reach the Russian Federation and not join the negative spiral against another country. We're very concerned. I have just said a few words about the statements made by the prosecutor in Montenegro about an attempt at coup d'état. I don't know if that's gonna be proven. That's not up to me either. But I am very concerned about these developments. We cannot say that neutrality or impartiality is possible. We see great risks for the Balkans. That's the reasoning. The reasoning is not: we are going to escalate it towards another conflict with the Russian Federation. It is not a question of the Netherlands thinking: for once we are going to pull a few countries into NATO's sphere of influence. This is a collective security situation at a time when there are threats to the Convention Area. The democratic desire of the government of Montenegro after the elections is to become part of NATO. Then you have to come from a good house to say that's not important. I'm not saying members of this Chamber say that. Of course, the Netherlands has the opportunity to stop this. I didn't say this wouldn't be possible either. We are here in the debate to see if it is a sensible decision. That is a direct point of interest which I agree with. I would not like to say that we are dealing with a policy that we can easily translate into: if we leave Montenegro's wish in the middle now and if we do not discuss the developments there, then perhaps we can look into some sort of collective security organisation in Europe to see if we can move forward. I think that's unwise. Maybe we disagree on that. I would like to stress here that we do not have any new enemies. We don't think in terms of spheres of influence. This is a collective security organisation that may have been more important than ever in recent years, including for the Netherlands. You may differ in the extent to which Montenegro meets the conditions, but in our opinion it fulfils the conditions for NATO membership. We therefore believe that this country has the right, just as we have the right to be a member of the organisation. Why should we be members and not Montenegro? It is also a democratic wish. The Socialist Party said a few years ago that it takes NATO membership seriously. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also wants to remain in it, but apparently it does not think that this should apply to another country, which is not directly in the geographical direction of a country which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats may think we see as an enemy. I have a different reasoning on this point from the SP Group. What are the main reforms to strengthen democracy and the rule of law? NATO looks at a large number of points. I mentioned some of them. They have also been dealt with in the written documents. Of course, we are also seeing progress in Montenegro in the light of the EU negotiations, but the criteria for this are much stricter. A number of things have improved, such as the right to vote, civil society and its involvement in the elections. It is also about the results of ODIHR and the legislative phase of the reforms. That is always the case: when legislation is in order, it comes to reality. We want to continue monitoring these things, within the framework of NATO and in the framework of the European Union in a strengthened sense. A question has been asked about Mr Tillerson's visit to NATO. I would like to underline what I said earlier, also in the light of what we have said so far in this debate on the importance of NATO. This cannot be separated from the greater strategic autonomy of the European Union and what it must do in the area of security. The central role of the United Nations is particularly important in this respect. Within that NATO is important to us as a collective security organisation, also given the instability around our continent. I think it is important for the US Secretary of State to be there. I haven't heard. I'm gonna go over there tonight and we'll check it out in the morning. I'll check it out. I would be happy if he were there, but every foreign minister makes his own reflections on his agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u33	Mr Van Apeldoorn has another question before I close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u34	I have one final question about a possible further extension of NATO. The Minister says that Montenegro has expressed the wish to become a member and that we cannot simply ignore it. I'd like to nuance that a little bit. Montenegro has been more or less invited by NATO to do so. That is what has been sent and that prospect has been set. Other countries do not have that prospect. Ukraine, for example, has also expressed this wish. I therefore repeat my question as to whether this is also the case for Ukraine. Or is there the argument that it is important what Russia thinks about it? Although the Minister states that NATO is not directed against Russia and does not see Russia as the enemy, Russia has seen enlargements in the past as an act of aggression. Then the question remains whether this can play a role in the considerations of the Minister or of this cabinet or not, for example with regard to the further expansion of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u35	Mr Van Apeldoorn confuses a lot of things, as if I thought Moscow had a droit de respect. He thought it was wrong that I blamed him. That certainly doesn't apply to me. That is not a consideration for me. Montenegro is also a specific situation, because we have an EAP programme with it and it was hoped that the country had been in that programme in recent years. Now the conclusion of that process is taking place. That is not at all the case with Ukraine. I said just now in my first term, and I also believe in my second, that I do not think it is logical at the moment for other countries to join NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u36	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case. The bill is passed without a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. I assumed that your second question would be whether one of the Members would like to make a note of this bill. If you don't ask that question...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u38	That's a question I'm gonna ask you. Piano piano! Piano piano piano I had asked if any of the Members would like to vote on the legislative proposal. That is not the case. Then I said that the bill was accepted. And my next question is whether anyone wants a note, and I understand that the fraction of the SP asks for a note. Didn't I see that right, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u39	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-6.u40	In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, the members of the SP Group present shall be deemed unable to comply with the bill.
