ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. We have five speakers. First of all, Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group has the floor. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The debate last week covered many of the issues of residence. I am now focusing on Airbnb, because it runs into cities like Amsterdam. The housing shortage is high, but at the same time more and more homes are being taken away from their function, namely to offer a home to the Amsterdammers. Last Monday I went to work with a number of other Members of Parliament. In short, more is needed to tackle the wild growth of Airbnb. What does the Minister think of an Airbnb law? Provide a legal basis for a notification obligation or a maximum number of days. There is nothing wrong with the temporary rental of a room or a house, but it should be fun. The boundaries must be clear. Airbnb must not be at the expense of neighborhoods, homes and residents. That is why I am tabling the next motion, including on behalf of Mr Voortman, Mr Ronnes and Mr Azarkan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that renting through online platforms such as Airbnb may lead to improper use of the accommodation, nuisance and illegal hotel formation;]] [[having noted that various world cities, such as Barcelona and Florence, are using different opportunities to regulate tourist rentals via online platforms;]] [[Whereas municipalities want to regulate and effectively maintain tourist rental through online platforms;]] [[noting, for example, that in Amsterdam there is a desire to reduce the maximum number of overnight stays via holiday rental from 60 to 30 days;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a complementary toolbox to allow municipalities to regulate and maintain tourist rental and to submit it to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Voortman, Mr Ronnes and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	That's very nice. I call Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation on 7 June it became painfully clear again what absurdities occur around the housing of status holders. It was disgruntled, complaining status holders who did not find the living space allocated to them good enough. Moreover, it became clear that one in ten status holders successfully complains, successfully refuses a home and is then offered another home. That is, of course, completely wasted and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas dissatisfied status holders who complain about the housing allocated to them are better placed to complain in the country of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw or even refuse the residence status of status holders who complain about the accommodation allocated to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Finally, I would like to make the following point. It is striking that the VVD was also rather active in the previous AO and objected to complainant status holders. On the one hand, that is of course hypocritical, since the VVD itself has caused these problems in recent years, but on the other hand, I expect the VVD to vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. In general consultation, several residential topics have been reviewed. I think a large number of them will be on the agenda in the near future. I shall confine myself today to two parts. First of all, that is a motion relating to the housing of confused persons. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a significant increase in people who do not have a permanent residence or residence and (as a result) an increase in people reporting for night care;]] [[Whereas there is also a lack of suitable rental homes, so that the outflow from shelter, sheltered housing or from a ggz institution is virtually impossible;]] [[Whereas the initiators of the Weather Home Action Programme consider 10,000 additional (small) dwellings to be necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into early consultations with the initiators of the Weather Home Action Plan with a view to jointly drawing up a plan to eliminate the shortage of suitable housing for confused persons in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	I will conclude with a comment about providers on the digital platform, for example Airbnb. We see that there is a need to give additional tools to the municipalities in order to cope with developments. This type of rental should be regulated. We think it is right that legislation on this issue should be carefully reviewed and that it should be considered which additional tools should go to the municipalities in order to be able to manage this matter responsibly. That is why we have co-signed the motion announced by the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I call Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to confine myself to one subject. In the Netherlands there is a huge shortage on the housing market. The offer is too low. The number of properties, rentals and social rentals is not sufficient to meet the growing demand. People sometimes have to wait up to ten years. That's a rule rather than an exception before they get a home. This means that a lot of people cannot organise housing for themselves and do not live up to their dreams. I am surprised that, in the documents, we are assuming an acceptable housing shortage of 1.5% to 2%. The 2016 Housing Monitor says that we assume a deficit of 134.000 homes and that this is acceptable. I shall therefore table the next motion on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has system responsibilities in relation to the housing market;]] [[noting that the government assumes an acceptable housing shortage as it indicates that a calculated statistical deficit of 1.5% to 2% in the housing market is not perceived as problematic;]] [[Considering that there is currently an increasing shortage of housing on the housing market;]] [[considers that assuming an acceptable housing shortage on the basis of system responsibility will not contribute to addressing this shortage at local/regional level;]] [[calls on the government to stop assuming an acceptable housing shortage on the basis of its system responsibility;]] [[calls on the Government to propose in its talks with responsible local/regional parties on the housing market that in practice no longer assume an acceptable housing shortage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. This is the first VAO following a debate with a outgoing minister of residence. This means that, although some motions have still been tabled, fewer motions have been tabled than otherwise. GroenLinks had a motion in preparation to counter excessive tourist rental, at least to investigate whether the agreements Airbnb makes with foreign cities are possible here too. However, the motion by Mr Beckerman was so similar to the motion to be tabled by us that I decided to sign that motion. Our goal is to provide a toolbox that enables municipalities to tackle excessive tourist rental of homes. I am thinking, for example, of clear conditions for semi-commercial use of homes, or of space for municipalities to set conditions for temporary rental of homes to non-residents. A foreign country offers inspiration in this respect. Cities such as Berlin, Florence and Barcelona, for example, apply the rule that you cannot rent the whole house in this way and that you should also be at home as an owner when you rent out part of your home. Another example is the licensing requirement. These are all examples where I would like the law to make it possible for municipalities to have this kind of opportunity to prevent excessive tourist rental. That is why we have tabled this motion together with the SP and a number of other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	So much for the Chamber's term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. I can confine myself to advising on the four motions tabled. Several members have raised the subject of holiday rentals or Airbnb in Amsterdam. The issue is well known. It is in itself a sympathetic initiative by citizens to rent rooms among themselves without the involvement of large organisations or companies. However, it takes forms that adversely affect the quality of life in the city, which is why the local government wants to take action. The SP alderman of Amsterdam visited me and asked for support in making a regulation, which has now been consulted in Amsterdam and will soon be dealt with in the city council. That's a regulation to reduce the nuisance of Airbnb. He was extremely pleased with the support we could give him in the technical and legal sense. He has therefore now submitted a regulation to the Amsterdam City Council, which will be dealt with there. Undoubtedly, the views on the proposal of Alderman Ivens will differ. Different opposition and coalition parties will think differently about this. However, I do not think it is appropriate, where it is now being taken up in Amsterdam by means of a proposal in the city council, to leave the opinion to the Chamber on the motion in part No. 442. If it is intended to be the same as what the Amsterdam SP alderman is aiming at, I can imagine, because Mrs Beckerman is the first signatory of it to add nothing. If the motion is aimed at anything other than what Alderman Ivens is aiming at, I would not like us to adopt it here while he still has to defend his own proposal in the Amsterdam City Council. Then I would like to leave the discussion there in the first place. Then I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Last Monday we visited Amsterdam with a large number of speakers. There has indeed been said that there is a proposal that goes to the Council, but it has also been clearly stated that the legislation is currently lagging behind the problems they are experiencing and that they have to hang and strangle very badly in order to be able to enforce properly. They have outlined these problems. We see that this is not just an Amsterdam problem, but that it is already and potentially going to play in other places in the future. We therefore ask the Minister, who is in the motion for a resolution, to help municipalities and to give them the means to maintain them if their viability is compromised. Could you read the motion that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	I have spoken extensively with Alderman Ivens and he did not say to me at all that he thought he had no instruments, quite the contrary. And that turns out to be the case, because on the basis of that discussion he submitted a proposal to the Amsterdam City Council to regulate this. That proposal has yet to be discussed. I would like to join Mrs Beckerman in standing shoulder to shoulder with Alderman Ivens and saying: let the proposal be dealt with there. If the treatment reveals any problems there, I am always prepared to start the conversation with the municipality of Amsterdam. I would point out that one of the observations states that there is a desire in Amsterdam to reduce the maximum number of overnight stays from 60 to 30. In any case, that is not clear from what the Amsterdam College, a coalition with SP and VVD might be, but it is a legitimate body of Amsterdam that has included in its own proposal. It says 60 days as a limit. Undoubtedly there are other wishes, also elsewhere in Amsterdam, but I have to deal with the alderman sitting there. Whether this is a comfortable coalition for the SP, everyone has to judge for themselves at any time. I can only talk to the Amsterdam Board about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	I note that the Minister is deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Ronnes, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	Is it possible to ask the Minister a question about this as a co-author of a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yes, if very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	The motion also came about by calling for a proper look at the current legislation. Not alderman Ivens, but the Amsterdam College said that enforcement is going to be a problem because we are behind the facts with legislation. Does the Minister see that current legislation is not appropriate for the proper management of Airbnb?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	We shouldn't talk with double tongues. If the Amsterdam College presents its own city council with a proposal for an approach and asks the Council to support it in implementing it in this way, I assume that at least that is a sensible approach in the eyes of the Amsterdam College. I'm not going to undermine that from the House of Representatives. If it turns out that this proposal is unacceptable in Amsterdam, then I am open to a discussion on what we could do in addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	That is precisely what we are receiving from Amsterdam. We should not come to the regulation that is before us. We must let that process go, but on top of that we are told that, apart from the regulation we have proposed, we are not in a position to enforce the current legislation properly. On top of the regulation there is a need to look closely at the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	We shouldn't be playing town council Amsterdam here anyway. The Amsterdam College first gave a regulation in consultation, which has now been offered to the city council. That's where it needs to be treated. I assume that the Amsterdam College is convinced that this regulation is an appropriate approach to Airbnb. If it turns out that there is a difference of opinion on this point, I would be glad to hear it. Then I am open to a meeting with Alderman Ivens to see if anything should happen from the Empire, perhaps even in the area of legislation. I would also like to point out that this leads to a very long journey. If the alderman wants to resolve it within the current legal framework, which is apparently his own conviction, then that can happen quite quickly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	Clear. We're going to the next motion, the motion in part number. 443.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	That motion concerns the issue of status holders who refuse the housing allocated to them. The AA has already shown that this refusal is only recognised in 10% of the cases. Anyway, it doesn't happen that much. If it happens, it will not be recognised in 90% of the cases, and thus the status holder loses the right to housing. In very specific situations, the judge may consider that there is a valid reason why this property is not suitable just in that place. That system exists in the Netherlands. I wouldn't want to interfere with that. In fact, this has nothing to do with the status of residence. Again, the rule is that a status holder has a duty to accept the property assigned to him. In general, this is done, but if he refuses to do so, it will be checked whether it is justified, and 90% of the cases do not recognise it. Then the status holder forfeits his right if he would insist on refusing that residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	This is a bit of the same string as in the committee meeting. Since 2014, it has been 116 times that a complaint from a status holder has been justified. 116 times a status holder has just been offered another home. I would like to know from the Minister what he thinks of the substance of the motion. I can turn it around, too. Why does the Minister find it apparently acceptable to address complaining, disgruntled status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	What's not possible is that a status holder says: I don't think it's such a nice place, I'd like another one. That's not recognised. Of the small number of people who refuse, most of them are happy that they are getting something assigned to them, most of the complaints are rejected. However, there may be, but that must be checked by the judge, a specific situation applicable to that person why the residence is not suitable for the person concerned at that point. This may have to do with location, private conditions or anything personal; I will not go into that further. This is being reviewed by the judge in the Netherlands. It is not up to the Minister to judge that. I note, however, that it is obviously very reluctant, because 90% of the cases do not recognise such a rejection, which simply means accepting the house and otherwise loses the right to a home. Furthermore, I cannot judge it in substance in this place; that does not suit me. Mr Ronnes' motion for a resolution (Doc. I consider 444 to be policy support. We do so in the form of consultations and instruments such as discounts on the landlord's tax. I agree that there is a problem here and that, together with housing corporations and the initiators of the Weather Home Action Programme, we should tackle it properly. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Finally, there is Mr Azarkan's motion on item No. 445. I think he also has a background in the real estate and he has raised this with a lot of precision. I tried to do that, too. I think there may be two things that are mixed up here. One is that there is indeed a friction void of about 2%. It's about houses that aren't inhabited at the time and where someone else has to go. This is practically always the case in a market. The other thing is, if you put everything together and subtract from each other, there's a housing shortage of about 1.8%. That is the starting point. That is not what we are aiming for; no one, of course, is aiming for a shortage of houses. But it is normal in the market that a number of people are looking for a home and are waiting for a suitable home. They don't sleep under a bridge; they're not homeless. But they'd rather have a house with a garden or leave their parents, or they have other wishes that they can't get fulfilled immediately. That's the 1.8% deficit. Again, the government is not consciously trying to create housing shortage, but that is the actual situation. If we were to continue to reduce that figure of 1.8%, it would only be possible to do so by creating more empty positions. That emptiness is socially undesirable again. The market would also act on this, because the absence of such a desirable living space would also create undesirable phenomena in the market. So I guess we're actually talking about the same thing. We want as many houses as possible to be occupied and that as many people as possible will eventually find a place. That is why there is an extensive construction programme, which is supported from all sides. But I think that the wording 'assuming an acceptable housing shortage' in the operative part of the motion is a little too blurry for the reason I gave. So I would advise against this motion anyway. But again, I think we mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	Then it's a bit unfortunate in the pieces. Because I really read, and I quote from page 3 of the letter sent to the Chamber prior to the AO, that an acceptable deficit is assumed and that at the moment it is 1.8% of the existing stock. The Minister indicated at the beginning of his speech that there is a friction void, but I know it in the office market. That is 3%. So the offer there is 103%. And I haven't been able to find that friction emptiness at the housing market in the pieces. Is the total housing supply at present 98% or 102% of the need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	I'm just gonna read to you literally so I don't create any new misunderstandings. That calculated deficit is already based on an average of 2% friction emptying state. So it's both true. You build it up from how much we have, how many people want and what the void is. This vacancy is inevitable to some extent, because people have moved and other people have not yet moved into their homes. This results in a friction emptiness of about 2%, which is a given in itself. All in all, the market works in a decent way, with a deficit of 1.8%. This is not dramatic, nor does it lead to socially unacceptable effects. People on the demand side can also live with the feeling that they are actually registered for a home and hope that they get it, but they don't have it tomorrow. That's what's causing the shortage. Again, we do not strive for it, but we assume it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	Rounding off and short, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yeah, just so I understand. Within the supply of that 98.2% is still 2% friction and is therefore 2% empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	Within that offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	Well, then, I'd like to give you the following. For years, I've been annoyed by the fact that students, for example, have a hard time getting homes. People in the social housing sector have to wait ten, twelve years for a home. So I do not agree with the Minister that this is a situation that people handle in a good way. There's just a need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yes. Anyway, let's get back to the discussion we had earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	I thank the Minister for his presence here. I would also like to thank the spokesmen. Next Tuesday we shall be voting on the four motions tabled today. After the suspension we have the arrangement of work and the commemoration of employee Ivo Sneep.
