ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u1	We continue with the VSO on the Eritrean diaspora tax in Europe. I see the night shift has arrived. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u2	Presidents... Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. This is due to the time of the debate. Eritreans flee Eritrea because of the regime's pure repression. They are then confronted in the Netherlands with the fact that the Eritrean embassy in the Netherlands imposes diaspora tax, often under duress and sometimes even by extortion. The Chamber has already expressed its views on this on several occasions, but unfortunately nothing is changing this situation. That's why I'm filing the next motion together with the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the collection of diaspora tax under both Dutch and international law is in principle permitted, but should only take place without coercion and intimidation;]] [[noting that the DSP investigation into the collection of diaspora tax by Eritrea showed that this inning is "ridden with forms of coercion that give the Eritrean authorities a strong grip on the Eritrean diaspora" in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Eritrean Embassy in The Hague is responsible for the collection of diaspora tax in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that in June 2016 the Chamber adopted the Azmani/Sjoerdsma motion calling on the Eritrean defendant to call the abuses surrounding taxation to a halt and, if result was not achieved, to close the embassy;]] [[noting that the Dutch Government addressed the Eritrean authorities in August 2016, April 2017 and July 2017;]] [[Considering that in November 2017 the government stated that the tax collection of Eritrean diaspora tax is still taking place in the Netherlands in an undesirable manner;]] [[calls on the Government to close the Eritrean Embassy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this motion is gaining even more urgency because of the recent report by Argos, in which the way in which the Eritrean Embassy collects this tax, is again painfully exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his written reply. Eritrean authorities are still forcing their former compatriots in our country to pay taxes. That's not acceptable to the VVD. The previous Foreign Minister has not succeeded in putting an end to this. Although I understand that the current minister has just begun, the VVD's patience towards the Eritrean authorities is running out. We must put an end to this undesirable form of taxation and the abuses surrounding it. If the embassy does not put an end to this, it will be closed as far as the VVD is concerned, therefore also a follow-up motion following the previous motion with Mr Sjoerdsma. I ask the Minister to pay attention to a broadcast by Argos on Radio 1 next Saturday afternoon. In it we will hear a sound fragment in which the head of the embassy of an Eritrean refugee demands that he sign an apology. At the same time, that declaration is an explicit licence for the imposition of a penalty to be determined. There is also a 2% tax charge for overdue years, otherwise the consular service will not be provided. If this is the truth, then that's a hell of a scandal. I expect this minister to act on this. I also urge the Eritreans in our country to report these abuses. I would also like the Minister to be able to say that he will understand himself with his colleague, the Minister of Justice and Security, because I am also getting signals that a number of reports would have been made, but that the Public Prosecutor considered that they were insufficient to prosecute. Can we pay particular attention to this, because we need these convictions? Mr. Chairman. It is inconceivable that refugees here on land cannot escape the regime they fear, out of fear of the consequences here in the Netherlands, out of fear of the consequences for family members in Eritrea or out of fear of disenfranchisement of consular services. Eritrea's long arm is really out of the question. It undermines our state, our society, and above all who we want to be with each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr Azmani. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u7	Good evening, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you're still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u8	Glad to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thanks to all the staff, too. I'm glad there's people watching. Mr. Chairman. As colleagues have said before, it is the world on its head that a regime oppresses its own people, which causes people to flee, and that it continues to do so here in the country by taxing their money. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Eritreans in the Netherlands are intimidated by representatives and minions of the Eritrean regime and are forced to give up part of their income to the Eritrean regime;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a ban on diaspora taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. Diaspora tax for Eritreans. Whether or not the collection is accompanied by crimes, it is undesirable for money from the Netherlands to go to that reign of terror. In order to tackle this problem, it is advisable first of all not to allow any Eritrean in the Netherlands. I am aware of the ministerial arrangement of October last year, which prohibits the payment of taxes or other charges to the Eritrean Government. It is to be said that this is prohibited if it is accompanied by extortion or other crimes, or if the money is intended for use in violation of the arms embargo. I ask the Minister how many of them have been reported in the past year and how many times that has led to a conviction by the criminal court. I think the answer is zero. For the evidence of use contrary to the arms embargo seems virtually impossible to provide, and this also applies to the evidence of accompanying crimes, given the fear of taxpayers reporting. I hope I am wrong, but I think that this whole arrangement is mainly a pacifier for a good feeling but has little or no practical impact. I therefore have three other proposals and ask the Minister to respond. Firstly, simply criminalise the collection of that Eritrean diaspora tax in the Netherlands, without the conditions of the ministerial arrangement. That money goes to a criminal reign of terror, and the Dutch Government is making itself an accomplice to it by not stopping that flow of money. Secondly, break diplomatic ties with Eritrea. The Netherlands has nothing to do with it. It only costs money and those diplomats represent a bunch of criminals and they just have to get out of here! Keep the blackmailers at bay. Thirdly and finally, the accomplices of that reign of terror who are doing that regime a favour are leaving the country. Their presence and activities here are contrary to public order. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now turn to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Taxing is an exclusive right of the Dutch government. It can't be that someone else or another country is levying taxes. That is why we fully support the motion of D66 and the VVD. We could have signed her off like that, so to speak. Fine motion. The embassy just needs to close up. Something has been said about that often enough, and it hasn't worked. However, the CDA wonders the following. We heard questions from the VVD: dear people, please report them. That sounds really nice and you should, but the question is what the value of that is. That is, of course, a bit of an empty shell, because we know that the ambassador or the diplomats will call on their diplomatic status, and that it will not be prosecuted. At the end of the day, nothing is done with that report, which means you're gonna drop the willingness to report things that can be prosecuted. What you could do would be to take down diplomatic status immediately, so they couldn't rely on it. Then the call of the VVD is not an empty shell either. And that's how we know the VVD: they certainly don't come with that. Mr. Chairman. Also important for the case surrounding the embassies of and any charges by other countries, is that we are going to ban it. The government states in its reply that it can sometimes not prohibit it, because it is "voluntarily." But, of course, there is no voluntary tax. Ask a Dutchman if he knows a voluntary tax. Either it's not voluntary, or it's not tax. It's a contradiction in terms. It will therefore have to be banned. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The Chamber, read the debate, considers that the right to taxation of persons permanently resident in the Netherlands belongs to the Netherlands; calls on the Government to propose legislation within one year which makes the compulsory collection of (the Eritrean) diaspora tax impossible and punishable, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 134 (22831).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u13	It says "(the Eritrean) diaspora tax," so with "the Eritrean" in brackets, because there may also be other countries that do or want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. I don't know if the Minister can answer directly. The last motion is copied and then comes to him. We'll start right away. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'll see the last motion coming along. I've kind of gotten the spirit of it. Mr. Chairman. Several times this House has indeed spoken on this subject. Mr Sjoerdsma and, in fact, all the spokesmen pointed this out. My predecessor has also paid due attention to this. The previous cabinet, this cabinet and the whole Chamber agree that the image that comes out very strongly here is something we do not want. But in the end, it's not just about images, it's about facts. Argos announced a radio broadcast tonight and posted a number of quotes from it on his website. Let it be clear that the image that comes from it is disturbing. But in criminal law and, perhaps even more importantly, in diplomacy too, you must always first have the facts on the table and have applied them again, in this case by Eritrean side. Only then can you see what is actually going on at that point and what we need to do. So I have a bit of a dilemma here because of the fact that we do see some announcements with disturbing messages, but do not yet know what the broadcast as a whole will be. I will come back to that in a moment. I think we all have a sense of slight powerlessness here, too. Mr Sjoerdsma's motion and Mr Azmani's motion for a resolution 132 is very clear. She's listing what's already happened. This has been discussed several times. My predecessor has called the Eritrean defendant on several occasions. At the very least, there is the impression that we still have the same practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u16	What's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u17	I'm not making any judgment. First I speak in a general sense and then I come specifically to the motions, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u18	A very short question, Mr. Van Helvert. We're not gonna repeat the general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u19	It was a written consultation, Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, the Minister says: we must have the facts in a row and we must apply them to Eritrea. On the other hand, he says in the same answer: we have called on the ambassador a few times and have got that and that impression. How many times do we have to use that hearing again? Actually, we know what's going on. We can just say we don't want to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u20	No, because there's a difference between persistent signals and proven cases. I shall now turn to what Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Azmani are asking for in their motion. They give a factual list, which then leads to a request from the Chamber to close the Eritrean Embassy. I can tell you that this is the most far-reaching measure we can take. We haven't hit them in decades. If we now take such a measure, we shall skip a few measures, which have also been mentioned by Mr Van Helvert. If you have proven certain things, you can at first also think about declaring the persona non grata of the diplomats concerned. But closing an embassy is the most far-reaching form. As much as I recognise the signals mentioned by the Members of Parliament in their contributions, I would like to say that there must ultimately be evidence before we get into these far-reaching steps. Then it must have been proven. That's why we need declarations. Mr De Roon also asked this question: how many declarations have been made? I believe that there are zero arms exports, but there are a few dozen generic declarations. The D.A. has not yet seen any reason in the relevant declarations to actually conduct criminal investigations there. We're now picking up the signals from Argos. I want to wait for that broadcast. As a result of this broadcast, but also in response to the previous signals, I would like to ask my colleague from JenV and the Public Prosecutor to give real attention to this issue and to really value the declarations. But we have an independent OM; let that be clear. I'll ask them to see if there's any criminal investigation possible. Maybe Argos' broadcast will provide additional arguments for that. I would also urge the anonymous person in that broadcast to press charges. For we need such facts in order to be able to take real steps. That is why, with tonight's developments, I would like to refer to the motion in part No. 132 by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Azmani would like to say: hold her. Frankly, that's my advice on all the motions. Hold all motions. We're waiting for Argos' broadcast next Saturday. If there is such a clear picture that we are talking not only about images but also about tuxedo guns, I will first of all ensure that the ambassador, who is based in Brussels and also serves the Netherlands, is not called to the Netherlands. Then we shall live with him. If we see any reason to take further steps, I will also tell you. I'll report everything to you right away. If, on the basis of the whole of the letter and any action taken, the Chamber considers that the motions should still be put to the vote, then I shall immediately give my appreciation of the motions in question in the same letter. Argos has taken the whole business this evening and there is little point in coming forward with statements in anticipation of the broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u21	Finally, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u22	The Minister is actually acting like this is all very new and as if we have never discussed this matter in the Chamber. But this has been going on for a while. Now the Minister says: I am going to ask my colleague from the Justice Department and we are going to wait for the Argos programme. But we've been talking about it for a long time. And as far as the prosecution's investigations are concerned, as long as such a diplomat enjoys immunity, nothing will be investigated. So how is the Minister going to ensure that the immunity of these diplomats goes off so that prosecution can take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u23	This issue has been going on for a long time. It is not for nothing that your Chamber has given the contributions it has made. I can understand that, too. I think we all have the same feeling of unease; I said that before. In actual steps, for example, Mr Van Helvert's suggestion of a reduction in immunity could be taken. This means that we declare the person persona non grata and that he must leave the country. In the most far-reaching case, it is as in Mr Sjoerdsma's motion and Mr Azmani's motion for a resolution No. 132. I would like to repeat the weighting: that is the hardest tool we have. Then there must be more than that. I've seen Argos' quotes, and they looked ominous. I want to be able to take it with me. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr Van Helvert that, on the basis of the reports made, the public prosecutor has so far not seen sufficient grounds to pursue criminal investigations. This country is a rule of law, as annoying as it sometimes is, because in a rule of law, everyone is innocent until proven otherwise, even the Eritrean case of which we have certain images. The government cannot act on the basis of images and not on the basis of harder facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u24	I have to send a little bit into this, because we will have another debate after this. That debate is also very important. This is a written consultation. It is clear where the minister is at the moment. He's requesting that the motions be held. So I'm actually gonna ask you guys if you're okay with that. Otherwise, I will ask the Minister for his opinion and we will vote on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u25	Can I say something else? To make it complete: keep it, but with the very clear undertaking that I have the impression, let me say very clearly that the ambassador will be called here from Brussels after Argos's broadcast to give text and explanation. I'll report on that call. If, after that conversation and the broadcast of Argos, there is reason to take further action, I will take it and report back on it. Then I shall give you the appreciation of the motions still under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think it's obvious. I will look at Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert, because your motion has already been made. You're talking about another motion, but you're not up to it yet. Mr. Sjoerdsma, what are you doing with your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u27	I hear the minister right. But my appreciation of what Eritrea is doing, and certainly of what they are doing in the Netherlands, certainly depends not only on this Argos broadcast. I'm looking at the DSP investigation that the State Department itself commissioned. That alone doesn't lie. I immediately agree with this Minister that the number of declarations is low, but let us be honest: these are, of course, people who are rather suspicious of the state. They come from a country where the state is an active enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u28	Yes, that is what you said in your two minutes' speaking time. My question is what you are doing with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u29	I've heard the Minister, but I'm holding this motion for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u30	Okay. Then I'll go to Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u31	I think there's one motion that the minister could and should embrace. This whole tax and practice, this stinks on all sides. This is undesirable. People are intimidated by it. That long arm is present via the diaspora load. This motion calls for nothing more and nothing less than a ban on that tax to be examined. I think that's the least the Minister can do right now. That has nothing to do with broadcasting. This is what we already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mrs Karabulut, you want to maintain your motion as well. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u33	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You understand that very well, and I would also like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u34	I want to know, because then the Minister can give his opinion on this and we will vote on it tomorrow. And now Mr Van Helvert, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yeah, about the motion. My motion has nothing to do with Argos' broadcast or anything. I ask the government to propose legislation within one year to make the forced collection of diaspora tax impossible and punishable. I just want a judgment on that. And I'd like to vote on that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u36	We can do that, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's how it's gonna be. I understand that my overall request is also completely rejected. It's always good to see the Chamber united against you. That's sometimes because they agree with you and sometimes because it's a little less successful. Then I'm gonna finish the motions a little bit more closely. Sorry about the time. I shall begin with the rear, Mr Van Helvert's motion on part No. 134.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u37	Do you guys perhaps need a brief moment to coordinate? No? You're absolutely certain of your case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u38	I didn't see much doubt, honestly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u39	I thought I'd give it a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert's motion asks whether the right of taxation can be passed on to the Netherlands. I'm gonna have to let him down. This is an Eritrean tax. Eritrean taxation is an Eritrean sovereignty. A country like the United States also has a diaspora tax. Countries are free to do so. What is forbidden in our Code of Criminal Law, and rightly so, I think, is that this is done using fraud, abuse, coercion or extortion. That is why Mrs Karabulut's motion is superfluous, but we do not remember it anymore, so my judgment has been dissuaded. This tax, with the signals being issued, is simply punishable in the Netherlands. We're gonna need reports and convictions for that, but it's a criminal offence. As regards Mr Van Helvert's request for legislation to be introduced within a year to make the compulsory collection of diaspora tax impossible and punishable, I am therefore saying: that is already the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u41	So the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u42	Also dissuaded. I will be on the first motion in a moment, but I see Mrs Karabulut now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yeah, me too. One short question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u44	It may be so in theory, but in practice it works differently. And so my motion asks for an investigation into a ban. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u45	I can't go into sovereignty. We would also be sorry if other countries did that to us. Countries can set a diaspora load. That's their sovereignty. We cannot ban it. The only thing we can prohibit is the illegal imposition of taxes. We already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u46	Proceed with Mr Sjoerdsma's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u47	I'm going a little deeper into that. The motion contains a good list of what has happened in recent years. That's just a disturbing picture. That's what I was trying to tell you at first. We don't disagree about that. Nevertheless, I think the conclusion is rather far-reaching at the moment. We're being asked to close the embassy, while basically we don't have the evidence. I have every willingness, as I have just said, to urge my colleague from JenV and the Public Prosecutor to take seriously the reports that are being made. I also have the willingness to do so, and I will certainly do so, in order to look at my colleague in the Social Affairs Committee, who has already done so in previous instances, at how we can improve the willingness to report. Mr Sjoerdsma was right to point out that there is distrust of governments in the Eritrean community. I'm gonna get the show anyway. Let there be no misunderstanding that at the moment when we have stronger signals that the practices as they seem to be described in those quotes are actually taking place, you should not be surprised that the stay of the persons concerned in the Netherlands will not last long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u48	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u49	I cannot accept this motion given that it states that the embassy must be closed. If the petitioners can agree that I will speak with the ambassador, that I will take the steps I have just indicated to colleagues and the prosecutor and keep you informed, bearing in mind what is to happen next Saturday...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u50	This is a second attempt to hold the motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u51	If you say 'we want to hear from you within six months what the results are', then we have a different conclusion. I can live with that. But my urgent request would remain: hold the motion. After Christmas, the world may be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u52	The gentlemen look at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u53	Do they do it or don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u54	What are you going to do, Mr. Sjoerdsma? Are you going to hold the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u55	I'm not going to hold the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u56	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u57	But I'd like to add one thing. I understand that this minister has just taken office. Let's see if we understand each other. If he says he's going to end all these steps and that, if this practice doesn't end within the time limit set by this minister, the final sanction may be that the embassy will be closed, then we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. The difficult thing for me is that this minister only carries out the final sanction, the closure of an embassy, if it has been proven hard on paper that the embassy is guilty of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u59	You've said that twice or three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u60	I can't do anything other than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u62	So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u63	Okay, thank you. That brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-9.u64	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow.
