ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. "Everything for the climate" and "the time of no commitment is over." The Secretary of State spoke firm language about the Paris agreement last year. That was surprisingly the call of the business community itself. The expectations were high. Would the fine words about the urgency of the climate problem finally be turned into action? But no, the day before yesterday the CBS came up with figures on CO, carbon dioxide emissions. And what turns out is that in the first quarter of this year the Netherlands launched more than in the same period last year. This is serious, especially when we realise that in 2016 CO emissions from the Dutch industry remained unchanged at 94 million tonnes, the highest level ever measured. The Netherlands scores year in, year out worse than the European average, but it is of course mainly about the big calculation. In De Financieele Dagblad it was described in an opinion piece yesterday, for those who only understand bookkeeping language. I quote: 'It is like a debate on billions of windfalls, while the 440 billion public debt remains unaffected, with the remark that no one wants to reduce public debt to zero in 30 years. And that's when the CO reduction should go so fast." The main measure taken by the government to reduce CO emissions from the Dutch industry is the European ETS system, the trade in the right to emit a certain amount of greenhouse gases. By dealing with emission allowances, the questioners and providers are giving greenhouse gas emissions a price, but this is not working. It's plaster sticking for a problem that doesn't even help anymore. The system has many gravens. Even the cabinet recognises in the Energy Agenda that the ETS does not provide sufficient guidance to get Dutch industry to the savings needed to meet the Paris climate objective. Research by De Groene Amsterdammer this week shows that the Dutch industry does not really cooperate in combating the climate crisis and continues to emit greenhouse gases, and that it accounts creatively with the ETS. How can the Secretary of State make climate policy so dependent on the market if it is so clear that the market cannot cope? The bookkeeping mentality puts the focus on economic gain, not on ecological gain. What national measures does the cabinet have in mind? A planet-wide approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Just a moment, because you have an interruption from Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	I hear some numbers and I hear some facts and some opinions from the Party for Animals. I wondered if Mrs Arissen read the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	That is a good answer, because she is quoting from a quarter now, but what is the trend going on with regard to CO reduction in the Netherlands? Can she give me those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	If you look at the heavy industry in the Netherlands, that trend is rising. But even if you look at the whole, the Netherlands is always lagging behind the European average, and the Party for Animals finds that very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think Mr Dijkstra wants to respond to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	If it's okay, Mr. President, because we usually do interruptions in half, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	Yes, but you just received a very brief answer from Mrs Arissen to a question you asked. That is why I will allow it in this case. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	In the period 2005 to 2015, greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands decreased from 214 to 196 tonnes. Still too much, but the trend is falling. Mrs Arissen cannot just come up with quarterly figures and insist that this is the trend. We'd rather look at ten years than a quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	We prefer to do that, but it is a fact that last year, in 2016, Dutch industry's emissions remained unchanged at 94 million tonnes, the highest level ever measured. So the trend is up now and we think it should go down again. What national measures does the cabinet have in mind? A planet-wide approach. Is the cabinet prepared to formulate concrete intermediate targets that can be settled annually, so that the parliament cannot be put out of play because it cannot control, adjust or pay the cabinet for anything? Can the Secretary of State state that even the low-hanging fruit is still not picked? The by far cheapest solution, which even produces money, is that we use less ejection and less pollution to drastically reduce the consumption of meat and dairy products. This is an indispensable link in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	Will you finish up, Mrs. Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	Yes. Let me conclude with a friendly but very urgent request to the cabinet, namely that we no longer press the snooze button with every interim report and only speak fine words, which fortunately many people are no longer able to appease. It's really time for action now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	While Mrs Beckerman is walking to the speaker's seat, I would like to make up for an omission of just now. I would like to welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Secretary of State of I and M and the people in the public gallery. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a polluter-sparadis. That's what Donald Pols says, Director of Environmental Defense. The CO emissions from the Dutch industry did not decrease in 2016. De Groene Amsterdammer showed yesterday that Dutch industry gambles with the world. It is barely cooperating in the fight against the climate crisis and emits just as many greenhouse gases as ten years ago. CE Delft also published a report last month. The conclusion was that the more energy a company consumes, the more it pollutes, the less it pays. CE Delft's report shows that the desires and burdens are totally unevenly distributed. The SP requested a debate on this subject and received a 30-member debate. Here are some conclusions. Companies generate 3.3 billion climate damage and pay 1.5 billion. Households cause 2.6 billion climate damage, but pay 5.4 billion. Companies benefit from climate policy. They receive 2 billion a year. Thus, only a quarter of the benefits of climate policy are for households. In addition, 80% of the money for households goes to those with the highest incomes. At the same time, more and more people cannot pay their energy bills. 1 million Dutch live in energy poverty. This climate policy is not working. The narrowest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. Polluters aren't being dealt with. The Netherlands is a polluter-sparadis. A sad example is that we are giving billions of subsidies to green coal-fired power stations and thereby causing environmental damage on the other side of the world. As far as the SP is concerned, this money could be better spent on making homes more sustainable for people who are currently unable to pay the energy bill. I found a 1989 NRC Handelsblad this weekend. The front page said: "The small Socialist Party has been monitoring the environment since it was founded in 1972. The guiding principle for environmentalists is that it is primarily the business sector that needs to be addressed in terms of environmental pollution. Jan Marijnissen points out the contradiction that he believes exists in the capitalist mode of production between the amount of producers can earn in the short term and that of society in the longer term. Profit versus the environment." It is time we started working on a climate policy that works, allowing the polluter to pay instead of avoiding the polluter. When is the government really going to take action? When will we finally have a clear plan of commitments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. The climate is changing and parents are worried about their children, grandparents about their grandchildren and today's young people are seriously thinking about the future. The VVD takes climate change seriously and this now also does so, the greenest cabinet ever led by this minister and this Secretary of State The negative tone of the article in the Volkskrant does not change the successes we have achieved. Indeed, we have concluded an energy agreement for a longer period of investment security, with the widest possible coalition possible. There are organisations involved from Shell to Greenpeace. We build the largest wind farms in the world at sea. And thanks to a smart tender, the grant contribution falls significantly, resulting in a low price per kWh. We're closing down the most polluting coal plants. And there are many initiatives across the country, from raw materials agreements to sunbathing meadows. Furthermore, it is important that we are on track to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement, but also to achieve the European climate goal. The sustainability of our economy and energy supply has therefore been used. There is an Energy Agenda, there is a path to a CO-poor economy by 2050 according to the global Paris climate agreement, which is leading. But that path is not a straight way up; I was just talking about it. You can't talk about quarters or years, but you need to see what the trend is. We are facing an incredibly big task. After a long period of decline, emissions have barely decreased in 2016. We regret that and the VVD also regrets that. I would, of course, prefer to see that constant decline continue. The article states that it is because, in order to replace the coal-fired power stations which are closed, the gas-fired power stations have been reactivated to meet the demand for energy. Can the Minister explain this statement further? To what extent is this also due to the more attracting economy? What part is due to production here, for example in the oil or chemical sector, while we also export a lot of mainly semi-products? We produce for the most part abroad. What is the status in other countries, especially in other EU countries? What is the forecast for emissions in the coming years? To achieve the goals of Paris, the Netherlands is working hard to achieve sustainability in all areas, especially through innovations, for example in the energy sector, industry, agriculture, the built environment and the transport sector. It's an immense sum total, but we're gonna do it and we're gonna make it. The VVD has already put forward many proposals to strengthen European pricing policies, so that greenhouse gas emissions have a real price and innovation will pay. The 'polluter pays' principle applies. A strengthened European trading system works great, at least: it must do so, better than it is now. Climate change is an international problem. It therefore also requires an international solution. Other parties sometimes want to go faster and take nice additional national measures. That sounds good, but it doesn't work. While we're all paying for the costs, potential investments are pulling away from businesses. Emissions will then increase in particular elsewhere, where the rules are less stringent. That is the so-called "leakage effect." It takes time and money to cut emissions. We're working hard on it, and we need to. But it's a long-term issue. Symbolism doesn't help, because we want to take the people and keep heating and lighting our homes. The VVD makes sure that the energy bill also remains affordable and that people are free to make their own choices. So, getting together for a cleaner future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkstra. I see Mrs Kröger standing by the microphone. I think she wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Dijkstra describes the context in which our climate policy depends on a non-functioning European emission allowance market. He outlined that complementary national policies were costly and unnecessary. How will the emissions trading system work according to Mr Dijkstra? And what do we do in the meantime, until it works to ensure that we actually achieve the goals of Paris?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mrs Kröger asks a lot of questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	The emissions trading system is an excellent tool for making it work. And it also works, because at European level emissions are reduced. That's the point, of course. For a lot of what we produce in the Netherlands, this is where emissions are made, but the products are taken from somewhere else. There is the advantage that nothing is emitted for that product there. We would like to see this pricing improved. The price must be higher, because we want the market system to actually work. At a high price, where the polluter pays, you will also see that much more will be innovated than at present. Now the price is only €5. But if the price is €30, a manufacturer will of course make a trade-off. He's gonna ask: am I gonna use other raw materials, am I gonna save it, am I gonna generate my own energy? I would like to see these emissions reduced and parties working on innovation. That is not happening at the moment. That is why we discussed a number of measures here in the Chamber to strengthen the emissions trading system at European level. We have also received proposals for this, often Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mrs Kröger wants to respond to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	Does Mr Dijkstra share Minister Kamp's answers to Parliamentary questions on the functioning of the ETS, in which he makes it very clear that the ETS is not functioning well enough at the moment and that additional national measures are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Dijkstra, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm very hesitant about national measures. We have seen that a number of parties, including Mrs Kröger's party, say in their election programmes that they want to do more and that the Netherlands must do more than Europe, even though there is a common European goal. That common European objective is important. If you want to do more, you get huge investments here and then you have a huge leakage effect. The PBL calculated that, too. For example, GroenLinks wanted to invest 16 billion in all kinds of sustainable goals, but 70% of that 16 billion would have leaked away. Of every euro you spend here on a national measure, 70% will have no return. It also means that emissions are likely to increase in Poland, Romania, Bulgaria or Italy. That's not good. In this respect, the analysis of the PBL is rather dramatic for the GroenLinks election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkstra. I also see Mrs Arissen of the Animal Party at the interrupting microphone. I would therefore like to give her the opportunity to intervene and ask Mr Dijkstra if he could perhaps formulate his answers a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	I heard Mr Dijkstra say: we are on course. What documents, documents and figures show this? If we continue as we are now, we will not achieve the goals of the Paris climate agreement. I also heard Mr Dijkstra say: 'the polluter pays' is a fine principle. It is good to hear that the VVD also seems to be in favour of the 'polluter pays' principle. He said that we produce a lot for abroad and then asked what greenhouse gas emissions are for production abroad. My question is whether it is for a meat tax. The livestock industry and meat consumption have a huge impact on the climate and the climate targets that we need to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	You want a short answer, Mr. Chairman. We are on track to achieve the 20% CO reduction by 2020 agreed at European level. We're dealing with the Urgenda pronunciation, which forces us to 25%. There we are also on course, see answer number 4 to the questions of fellow room members of GroenLinks. With the energy agreement, we're going to achieve those goals. So we're going to get the 25% by 2020. So we are also going to achieve the 40% target by 2030. The target of at least 80% by 2050 is also going to be achieved. As far as abroad is concerned, we have a very large chemical and petrochemical industry in the Netherlands, but about 80% of what some chemical plants make or what they make in the oil industry in Rotterdam is export-related. We do have the emissions here, but where they use our oil or chemical products, they don't have them. Of course, that's not entirely fair. We're gonna be billed for emissions as a country. We have to bear in mind that the Netherlands is an open country, an exporting country, and that we have a lot of CO here, energy-intensive, but economical, and that CO is saved elsewhere. I think it's about not looking at this nationally, but taking into account the international context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	I can imagine that Mrs Arissen would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I had hoped that Mr Dijkstra would say: the livestock industry is one of the biggest polluters in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and let us indeed, because we want to be the milkman and butcher of the world, reduce our share so that we are going to emit less. But I understand that Mr Dijkstra actually wants an exemption in order to get more out of here. But how are we gonna get the targets? He does not indicate that we are actually going to achieve the objectives set out in the Paris climate agreement in the way we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	How are we going to achieve the goals, that is what Mrs Arissen wants to know from you, Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	CO emissions and greenhouses are a global issue. That is why I welcome the Paris climate agreement. The Netherlands has a target, the 40% I mentioned before 2030. We have a specific objective for industry and energy, namely 43%. These are subject to the pricing in emissions trading. But we have now also agreed targets for the non-ETS sectors, for agriculture, built environment and transport. In all these five sectors, I have said that it is a huge task and we therefore have objectives. You're talking about livestock farming. That is about 13% of total CO emissions. You will also have to take steps in the livestock sector. You are going to look at reduction in the livestock itself, but I prefer to look at innovation: can you do something with precision fertilization or with other feed, so that there is less methane emissions? We are looking in particular at innovation, at positive things. You're making other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkstra. I have to say that Mr Öztürk and Mrs Van Veldhoven have signed off on this debate. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. As my fellow chamber members have pointed out, disappointing CBS figures came out the day before yesterday. Transport, industry and agriculture are all doing worse than in the same quarter a year ago. How can it be that at a time when companies, banks, civil society organisations and the scientific community all stress over and over again that we must prevent climate change as a country still score worse? How do the directors intend to comply with the judgment in the climate case brought by Urgenda? Can both directors talk to the transport sector in the short term, in particular, whose emissions have increased most, in order to make arrangements to change direction? Yesterday, Prime Minister Rutte was rightly critical of the climate performance of companies. It's true, the industry is far from there. This is also apparent from the aforementioned research by De Groene Amsterdammer. This is not only bad for the climate, but also for our competitiveness. We're losing our chances. We want to be the frontrunner in Europe, but we're not making it happen. What does the Minister think of Dutch industry doing so badly? Do the Minister and the Secretary of State share the Prime Minister's criticism? At the same time, there are plenty of companies that have ambitions. Companies have called many times for ambitious climate targets. They need to be helped by a government that introduces strong incentives to emit less. Companies that do not perform sufficiently must be forced to do so. We need an active government, with guts and ambition, that sets the long-term course. The current cabinet has left it too much to the market and that market, the European Emissions Trading System ETS, is currently not functioning. It is high time for national, far-reaching measures. Do both regiments agree with this? Do they share this analysis? One bright spot I can mention is the fact that Minister Kamp has forced the energy-intensive industry to come up with plans to save 9 petajoules of energy. It took a while, but then you've got something. What similar measures can we expect in the short term? The PBL report on the national energy transition costs assumed an emission reduction of 80% to 95% by 2050. This is not in line with the 1.5° target of Paris. Can a similar study be commissioned, based on a reduction in emissions in line with the 1.5° Paris target? Finally, I would like to hear from both directors how they see the final sprint in the present cabinet to bring Paris closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	There have often been energy debates here by colleagues. Mrs Kröger is new to the Chamber; welcome. I am curious about her knowledge and, in particular, her opinion on things that have been set in motion by this cabinet. In concrete terms, my question is: what does she think of the energy agreement and what else should we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	That's a wonderful question I could ordain for hours!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkstra! The energy agreement was a measure that was necessary at that time to remove a situation that was stuck. At that time, it was not enough and it was necessary for industry and civil society to say together: this is what we see before us. I think it is important for a government to give a clear direction to where the social field is moving. At the moment, the energy agreement does not deliver enough to meet the Paris targets. I really need a tooth. We need a government that guides and sets very clear targets. If sectors fail and do not deliver, it must introduce measures to ensure that those sectors comply with them. If we look ahead, we will be happy to do so in this Chamber; Mr Dijkstra also asks what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	One of the reasons why the Energy Agreement was reached with all those parties is that there was support among all those parties. Another reason is that they wanted to put an end to the mop policy of previous years. The parties benefit from an objective and therefore have long-term investment security. The current energy agreement runs until 2020, 2023. Does Mrs Kröger think you should throw that in the trash? How does it view, in particular, the support base rather than the top-down approach it advocates?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mrs Kröger, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	We think support is very important. We see a lot of support in society from the sectors I mentioned: companies, banks, civil society organisations, science. Those sectors say that there really needs to be a tooth in order as the Netherlands no longer to dangle at the bottom of the lists but to really achieve the goals of Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants us to fight global warming together with the European Union and the rest of the world and limit it to well below 2°C, as agreed in Paris, i.e. below 2°C. This requires a great deal from everyone. The Dutch Emission Authority has published that in 2016 there was a bit less emissions than in 2015, despite a strong growing economy. The CDA is keen to hear from the Secretary of State what the projections are for CO emissions in the ETS sectors, industry and power plants, in the coming years until 2020 for the Netherlands and the European Union. Is there a downward trend in the ETS in the Netherlands and the European Union in the coming years? Or is her expectation not? Yesterday, the CBS came up with figures on CO. My question to the Secretary of State is how these figures relate to those of the Dutch Emission Authority. In the analysis of the CBS, I read that CO emissions have increased compared to the first quarter of last year, partly due to an increase in the number of flight movements. To what extent does flying belong in the figures about CO? Maybe the Secretary of State can explain that. The IPCC is now calculating what is more necessary for the implementation of the climate agreement. When are the results expected, I ask the Secretary of State. Is the European decision-making process aimed at strengthening European policy on this? After all, if we want to get to Paris, maybe we need a tooth. We would very much like to know from the Secretary of State how she looks at this and when she expects exactly what. The CDA wants us to look further at how we can take necessary measures as cost-effectively as possible and how we can achieve them in cooperation with other European countries. We don't want to do this as politics alone, we want to do it together. We had another conversation with the ESC this afternoon. 46 parties have concluded an energy agreement together. The CDA would very much appreciate the continuation of the energy agreement, also in the form of a CO and energy agreement. We must do this not only with the parties now, but also with the inhabitants. They have not yet been taken. It is good that companies are well involved. We have also been able to see that they sometimes need an extra support in the back. Despite all the good news in all the newspapers that they would like to put a tooth in, they can also really add a tooth. Because it's keeping people awake. They are not only concerned about the climate, but also about how the bill is paid and what it means to them. We want to have an action perspective for people to be able to participate in the transition. How does the Secretary of State view this? What will it recommend to us in order to take further steps in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. According to the climate gospel, CO is the devil's child, which must be eliminated at all costs. For the PVV, however, CO is not a dirty word, but an essential part of life, because more CO emissions from our industry means more economic activities and more employment. In fact, this whole Chamber should be pleased with that, but unfortunately that is not the case, as we have just heard. There is a demand for additional savings obligations and therefore additional burdens on our industry. It calls for the closure of our coal plants, including the brand new ones, which we opened last year. In fact, according to the GroenLinks electoral programme, not only should all coal power stations be shut down, but the transfer of coal in the Dutch ports will be stopped and the phasing out of oil, petrol and diesel terminals will begin. Logically, a sigh of relief was slept in Rotterdam and surroundings, when last Monday the formation attempt with GroenLinks stranded. After all, many Rotterdammers make their living in the port of Rotterdam with these activities that are so marked by links. And not only because of the left, because the VVD also seems to swallow all this with the green right sound, if we can believe the leaked messages about the failed formation. In addition, there were a number of VVDs and CDAs here last week, together with Greenpeace, protesting for more climate rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	Water is also essential for life, but if I keep my nose under the water for too long, I'm gonna die anyway. I think it's important to keep realizing that. Not so long ago I had the debate with Mr Van Aalst on Chemours of DuPont. Pollution in water, created by an industry which, on the one hand, creates jobs but, on the other hand, can actually have negative effects, because they are harmful substances. Many Rotterdammers are calling us because their children are suffering from lung problems because they are dealing with high concentrations of particulate matter. You do not have to take the climate problem seriously, but you cannot deny that there is indeed a problem when it comes to emissions of certain substances into the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	With CO, we don't see that as a problem. In fact, CO is not a dirty word according to the PVV, but an essential part of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u46	I made the comparison with water. I'd like to give you your climate suspicion. I am not going to discuss this with you, but you cannot deny that too much of certain substances is a problem. That is why I would like to mention the example of the Rotterdamers, who also say to you that their homes are particularly dirty and that their children have more problems with their lungs in certain areas, because they live in densely populated areas, with a high concentration of particulate matter, also caused by CO emissions. You can't deny that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u47	My colleague is confusing a number of things. We are talking about CO emissions and I have just said that CO emissions are not dirty. CO emissions and climate change are always mixed up in the climate polonaise. Climate change is of all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u48	I see that Mrs. Kuik wants to respond very urgently. Normally that's always in two, but I'd like to give her the opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u49	I just don't get an answer to my very modest and justified questions. I conclude once again that Mr Van Aalst was also raised in the PVV-style school: a lot of calls, nothing concrete. On such an important subject, I find that extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u50	I would like to call on our colleague from the PvdA to participate in our classes. In short, the PVV seems to be the only party concerned about the jobs in the Rotterdam port and in the energy-intensive industry, all the more so because it is not unthinkable that a new cabinet should continue this crusade against CO and all associated employment. That is why I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State what the possible consequences for employment will be if further environmental measures are taken. Is our industry not fully priced out of the market because of this saving obligation, which means that companies will remove their activities from the Netherlands? What is the consequence of GroenLinks' proposal to ban all fossil activities from the Netherlands? How many jobs is the Cabinet prepared to sacrifice to meet the Paris climate agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u51	In the last week, I have seen in all the newspapers calls from business to ensure a greening of the economy. How does Mr Van Aalst of the PVV Group see that? To what extent does he support the participation in the energy agreement of the employers, including those from the port? How does he explain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u52	I think that my colleague from the CDA is referring to the subsidy that is being paid to these companies. We have also noted that, at the moment, companies do not invest in the green image when it comes to it. We've been able to see that for the past few weeks. Take that story in Spitsbergen and colleague Rutte of the VVD who insisted that the companies do not invest. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that CO is not dirty for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u53	It is precisely the employers and employees, together in the ESC, who draw this whole energy agreement. One of the objectives of the Energy Agreement is to create 15,000 new jobs. I would like to hear from Mr Van Aalst of the PVV Group, who is actually saying here that this only costs jobs, that he would also like to look at what this results in. And how does he see this question to The Hague from the industry itself to do more about the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u54	We note that, if we close all coal power stations, we would like to remove all jobs from Rotterdam. You can say that new jobs are coming back, but you also know very well that for jobs that are being cut, the same jobs do not return, and certainly not as many jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u55	You have a club of extremists who say we should all be vegans, because otherwise the world will end. They're doomthinkers. I think they're about 10% of people at the most. About 10% of people talk like Mr Van Aalst and say: it's all not such a problem, CO is a great deal of fun, I don't care about greenhouse gases and I don't really care about the environment either. What is Mr Van Aalst doing for the large middle group, the remaining 80% of people who want to do something about the economy and the environment? What's better than letting those two go together? What message does the PVV have for those people, who are serious and say that the environment and the economy go hand in hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u56	There's a difference between environment and CO. We are talking about COThe PVV is limited to the facts. The facts show what I'm saying. What I do find special is that a number of colleagues who continue to run climate polonaise and which will continue to follow 97%. That is a fantastic election stunt, but also a complete lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u57	Even if you don't do it for the environment, even if you think the environment and the environment are important to Mr Van Aalst, at least do it for the wallet. What is wrong with using less raw materials, less water, less heat or less energy? Isn't that just a earning model? What does the PVV think about that? Or is she stuck in that old-fashioned system and doesn't she have an insight into all the new developments that are going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u58	I have just made it clear that we are talking about CO emissions. CO is not dirty; it is essential for life and for nature. Look at us Westland: the greenhouses need it. We continue to insist: climate change is of all times; there is no causal link; man does not contribute to global warming, if he can influence it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u59	First of all, I would like to say that it is a good thing that a real climate skeptic is taking part in this debate, because it is incredibly important to continue this debate with each other. I have heard Mr Van Aalst say a number of things about how he sees the economy before him. Apart from climate change, I would like to have Mr Van Aalst's clarity. Does he honestly believe that our Minister for Economic Affairs should continue to focus on the old industry and not take measures to prepare our country for the new industry and the clean, sustainable economy of the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u60	You yourself have noticed that we have just noticed that Prime Minister Rutte made a statement this week that companies do not want to use clean energy at all. You can swing the subsidy pot, but the companies have shown that they do not want to invest in this themselves. We have excellent fossil fuel potential, but now CO emissions are being tackled to destroy companies. Again, climate change is of all times. There is no causal link between global warming and human influence on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Van Aalst. I do notice that, when you chair, you tend to join yourself, but that is of course not the intention. I give the floor to the next speaker. Oh, you weren't done? Apologies, Mr Van Aalst, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u62	I have two more sentences. As I said, CO is an essential part of life, because we all exhale it. I have some bad news for this cabinet: over the next ten years there will be 1 billion more people on Earth. This will eliminate all the CO savings of the Netherlands. My final question is therefore to what extent this has been taken into account in current climate policy. Can we expect a tax on breathing soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. We want the Netherlands to comply with the Paris Agreement and achieve its goals. This is in the interests of our climate, our health and a clean air for our children. That is why, together with a number of other parties, we have tabled the climate law so that we can ensure that we actually achieve these goals not only now but also for future generations. It is not sustainable and it is not acceptable for industrial companies to embrace the climate agreement in this way, but then to fail to comply with the commitments made. As the Planning Office for the Environment says, radical measures are still needed in the future to achieve the goals set. That is also in the interests of those companies themselves, because if we take measures too late, they will eventually have to pay a very high bill to achieve the objectives set, and that is not the intention. The now outgoing cabinet has taken important steps to achieve the goals set out in the Paris Agreement, but more is needed. That is why we have advocated the replacement and adaptation of the ETS. There really needs to be a tax on CO. We want to move towards the closure of coal plants and we want to see all kinds of other measures taken to ensure that we are effectively energy neutral by 2050. I have a few more questions for the cabinet. Yesterday an article was published in De Groene Amsterdammer which shows that, among other things, because of economic growth, heavy industries in particular only emit and continue to emit more CO. I would like a response from the cabinet to this investigation. How does this relate to the recent agreement that Minister Kamp has reached with the 100 largest energy consumers in order to significantly reduce emissions? How hard are these agreements and how are we going to guarantee that they will be met? I have one more question specifically for the Secretary of State. She has a great deal of contact with her European colleagues at the moment. Across Europe, we have realised that we really need to deal with the climate. What future developments can we see, even when it comes to ETS mechanisms, for example, which can actually hinder the achievement of these environmental objectives? I have one final question, but I see Mr Dijkstra standing at the interrupting microphone. I'll go to him first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u64	I'm the one who's in charge here. I would suggest that you finish your contribution first. Then Mr Dijkstra can post his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u65	He's distracting me, which is why I'm calling it in. No, I'm kidding! I have one final specific question, also in connection with the article in De Groene Amsterdammer. It refers to the fact that the amount of CO per gas unit changed from 3% to 8% in 2015 so that "dizzer" gas from the North Sea could be used. I would like to hear another reaction from the cabinet on this point. Is this true and exactly what's going on? Perhaps that has been shared with the Chamber before. Then that's an omission on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you. There is now an interruption by Mr Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u67	The PvdA is one of the initiators, together with GroenLinks, of the climate law setting targets. Then you have to talk about what kind of goals these are, but the idea behind them is of course also the long term, investment security and knowing what is happening. It's pretty top-down, because you're gonna say, "This is what we're gonna do." How does the PvdA also take into account the people with whom the account comes, or the companies that have to carry it out? How is it ensured that the account remains affordable? How does the PvdA look at that? I don't read anything about that in that climate bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u68	The beauty of the climate law is that a final objective is set and that, as with the adoption of a budget, an annual statement is made of what we are going to do to achieve the climate objectives. It is precisely because of this that you can create long-term security, both for companies that will have to take measures or have to invest, and for the normal people like you and I, too, are those who, for example, have to travel from A to B for their work by car. You have to make sure you don't burden those people with disproportionate burdens. We can now say that we all switch to electric cars. If you report that now and do so in a number of years, the industry and also the people at home can take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u69	The bill lacks the financial picture. That is, of course, important. Fortunately, Mrs Kuiken also acknowledges that the bill for commuting, among other things, must be paid. I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u70	Sure. I hope, apart from the cabinet that is to come, that we will be able to support this climate law in a reasonable manner with several parties. I think that's essential. Then you can also come to a reasonable timeline, with a decent price.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u71	I didn't really want to allow a third question anymore, but the previous question was a little out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u72	I didn't ask a good question. Does this also mean that the PvdA believes that it should go through the budget? We are now charging a $12 billion storage for renewable energy through people's energy bills. Is it the case in that climate law that all climate spending simply goes through the budget? After all, you can make choices between education, defence, climate and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u73	Yes, I think it is important to establish annually what the goal is to achieve in terms of energy savings, in terms of achieving the climate objectives. That's what you're making money for. That's what you're making a potty for. And, of course, you have to see where that hits. Of course, in part, we always think that the worst polluter must pay the most. And you have to look at the small households. You have to make sure that they are not the least affected. So proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u74	I see that Mrs Van Veldhoven is now present. I'd like to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank colleagues for their flexibility. We agreed in Paris to combat climate change. This means reducing greenhouse gas emissions and a different way of producing and consuming. We often tell each other here that we have already made so much progress in the Netherlands and that we emit less CO. But that's not quite right. Greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands have not decreased since 1990 but have remained stable. Of course, our production has increased, so we have become more efficient, but emissions have not decreased. The emissions of other greenhouse gases, such as methane............................................................................................................................................................................................ That is where the Dutch fall figures come from. However, in the area of CO2 there has been virtually no progress in the Netherlands over the past 15 years on balance. How do the rulers explain this? According to the Dutch Emission Authority, industry's emissions increased over 2016 compared to 2015. The numbers in one year don't say much. For example, an additional chemical company has been added, increasing emissions in 2016. However, the trend that shows that CO emissions in the Netherlands have hardly changed is worrying. Little has happened in the case of industrial emissions. This is particularly true for companies covered by the emissions trading system. The Netherlands is apparently doing worse than other countries in Europe. What are the reasons why Dutch industry is making little progress? Is there a shift in emissions from other European countries to the Netherlands and is there more production here and less elsewhere? Is that an explanation? How is that kept? The more we produce here, the more important it is that we produce it clean here. In my group's view, this only increases the urgency of achieving further results here. For both climate policy and our competitiveness, it is important that companies organise their processes efficiently. I hear different stories about this. How does the Minister see this? The Minister has agreed with the Dutch industry to save 9 petajoule energy by 2020, as agreed in the Energy Agreement. How much CO savings is that going to yield? How is it ensured that industry also makes investments for energy saving that are profitable in the long term, i.e. after 2020? It's actually tomorrow, and you're talking about investments that need to be recouped in the very short term. What do we do with the risk of preventing lock-in effects? Are you investing in a new fossil plant that will save you a few percent over the next few years? Wouldn't you be stuck with such an installation for a very long time, when perhaps if you had optimized it in the longer term, you would have opted for another installation? A great deal of work is still needed to meet the Paris agreements. So far, with regard to greenhouse gas emissions, we have only achieved that emissions do not increase further, but it must, of course, fall. The Netherlands therefore needs an ambitious climate policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u76	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand that the members of the cabinet who will answer the questions will need five minutes to get their answers straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr. Chairman. I will first answer a block on international policy, the functioning of the ETS and, of course, the relationship with the climate agreement. Then there will be a block "national" around our own emissions and a number of sectors. Among other things, the Minister will address everything that is going on around industry. Of course, a number of questions have also been asked about this. Almost all parties rightly refer to the Paris climate agreement in their contributions. This climate agreement has once again highlighted the need to drastically reduce CO emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, in all sectors, to limit global temperature growth to well below 2°C and to be able to operate globally climate neutrally in the second half of this century. I have said it many times in this house, but I keep saying it: that is a huge task, which is underestimated to my taste. The measures must be taken by all countries. Policies and measures will have to be taken by all countries. The Netherlands is doing this, among other things, through the development of the energy agenda. Recent reports that emissions in the Netherlands have not decreased in 2016 or even increased in some sectors only highlight the importance of further CO reduction and actually show how big the challenge and its size is. Almost all parties referred to the emissions trading system, the ETS. About half of all CO emissions in the Netherlands come from companies covered by the ETS. The ETS operates on the basis of a ceiling for the European Union, which is gradually falling as a whole. The ETS will reduce CO emissions from European industry and the energy sector by 21% in 2020 compared to 2005 and 43% in 2030. This emission reduction is guaranteed. Given that this is a European emission ceiling, a situation may arise that increases CO emissions in one or more sectors or countries, while emissions in the European Union as a whole are falling. Reductions take place in sectors and countries where they can be achieved most effectively and cost-effectively. This does not mean that we should ignore the reporting on Dutch CO emissions in 2016. After all, we have indicated in the energy agenda that we want to strive for a gradual and timely transition, in order to avoid, as far as possible, shock effects on the economy and also to exploit the economic opportunities offered by the transition. It also generates growth and jobs. But if you wait too long, the economic blow actually gets bigger. I will explain this further in a moment. Mrs Mulder asked whether European policy was aimed at being able to meet the Paris Agreement properly and whether it was designed for this purpose. At present, the promised contributions, the NDCs, of the different countries do not add up to the goal of staying below 2°C. We knew that when we concluded the agreement. Additional policies are needed from all countries around the world. That is why the climate agreement has an ambition mechanism in which countries have to make a new contribution every five years. Contributions should be progressive in time and lead together to the agreed objective. The European Union is also participating in this ambitious mechanism, which is periodically reviewed every five years in the context of energy and climate policy. If it is then decided to increase within the European Union, the ETS targets and the non-ETS targets will also have to be adapted accordingly. Mrs Kröger and Mrs Mulder spoke about the PBL study. They asked whether the target of 80% to 95% is in line with Paris and whether we should not also look further at achieving an objective that even focuses on 1.5°C. As I said, we're far from that 2°C at the moment. I think we're somewhere around 2.7°C. What exactly means 1.5°C is something the IPCC will present a report on in 2018. They will show what is needed worldwide to achieve this objective. We have also agreed at European level that we will wait until we come up with additional research ourselves. Then we have been asked by both Mr Dijkstra and Mrs Mulder about CO emissions in Europe. Is there a falling trend? Emissions in the ETS sectors within Europe have declined on balance, but it is different between countries. There are countries, including the Netherlands, where emissions have remained almost the same; there are countries with higher emissions and there are also a number of countries where emissions have fallen. Non-ETS emissions are falling in all countries, including the Netherlands. I think it's good to say that. For the non-ETS sectors, the Netherlands performs well compared to other countries. In fact, we are very much in line with the objectives. Mrs Mulder asked what is the difference between the CBS figures and those of the NEA. The CBS figures are based on the national accounts of the activities of the Dutch economy. The short answer is that they are also looking at air carriers' emissions. The NEa figures focus only on emissions from the Dutch ETS companies. There's the difference you see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks would like to ask you a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u79	I have a question about the PBL report and the explanation that we have to wait until 2018 for the IPCC report before we can outline in the Netherlands scenarios what might be needed to keep that 1.5°C in sight. The reason I am asking is that we are now really behind in Europe and that we want to improve that position. Then perhaps we should make sure that we are well prepared, so that we can act quickly in 2018 if that IPCC study is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u80	I agree that we need to catch up on our position as a defector. That's what this cabinet does. You will see that once the energy agreement has been implemented, we will end up in the middle of a group that is dangling at the bottom with one stone. I also think that the Netherlands, like other countries, should be well prepared for that 1.5°C scenario, but I do not think that we should organise an all-input approach. We always have to do it at European level, because that is also the most effective thing. We have committed ourselves as a Europe to the Paris Agreement. We also have common objectives and it is important that Europe does not fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u81	I share the Secretary of State's view that it is important to act as a Europe. The PBL has recently made a study with three different scenarios. The question is whether it is possible to add a fourth scenario based on 1.5°C, so that we are prepared for further discussions at European level on this 1.5°C.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u82	That makes no sense, as long as the IPCC story isn't about what's needed worldwide to get to that 1.5°C at all. You will agree with me that this study, which is being carried out worldwide and for which all countries are being asked to contribute if it is decided to do so, must be a basis, including for the PBL, in order to be able to make such a scenario at all. Otherwise, you're gonna be thinking in some kind of blackbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u83	I suggest that you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mrs Arissen's question is why we are opting for ETS and in this way to achieve emission reduction through the market. With the ETS, European industry's emissions are guaranteed in a cost-effective manner compared to 2005. I said just now: 21% by 2020 and 43% by 2030, for the whole of Europe. However, the ETS does not function adequately. We've established that with each other before. The price of allowances was too low to encourage companies to introduce and develop clean technology. We're working on it right now. I've been allowed to negotiate it from the Netherlands in order to reach a higher CO2 price. The commitment of us and of other ambitious Member States has made it part of the Council's position to destroy the excess emission allowances in the market. I would like to point out that we were actually in a stronger position than the European Parliament. If this is eventually incorporated into the ETS Directive, it will eventually lead to a structurally higher CO2 price. Ultimately, it is very important that the ETS should function. I spoke to a representative of the state of Quebec this morning. He told us that California, Quebec and a lot of Canadian states are now also working on Mexico, actually on a European model with the creation of a system where you get a CO prize. Hopefully one day, we will be able to link these systems to each other, so that we can get a global carbon price that will ultimately give us the most efficient way, both for businesses and for citizens, to sell carbon out of the market. Now giving up because the system doesn't work enough, when we were once pioneering, frankly throwing the towel in the ring seems to me. Do we need to improve the system? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'm having second thoughts. I think Mrs Arissen was a little earlier than Mr Dijkstra. I shall therefore give her the floor first and then Mr Dijkstra can place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u86	I am curious how the Secretary of State assesses what is being said in De Groene Amsterdammer's research. It quotes a manager of the NEA's emissions trading and says that if the price of carbon increases, companies are tempted to commit fraud with it. They sincerely take into account that, if that price becomes too high, it could be beneficial for companies to start to cheat. He says that figures are provided by the companies themselves. How can we prevent fraud with this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u87	That goes for every system. That is also the case when you raise a tax, which I think is your ideal model. Of course, companies can try to get out of that. Ultimately, it is very important to ensure that there is good enforcement and control in every system. Frankly, that does not affect the question of whether you want to achieve a higher carbon price through the emissions trading system or in a different way. I think it is important for companies to have an interest in this, because that is what you see in order to come to such a price. You can see that a lot of companies are now coming to the government with the request to support them to get that ETS working. Why is that the case? Because that creates a level playing field for them. In my view, this is ultimately important for the long term for business, for them to know where they stand and for the level playing field in Europe and, preferably, worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u88	Would you like to respond to this, Mrs Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u89	The Party for Animals doesn't believe very much in the system, also because of the waterbed effect it produces. The emissions you don't have here, you have elsewhere or vice versa. We really need to get to a real reduction. This system is actually sticking a little plaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u90	That's exactly what I don't agree with. It is important that the European Union as a whole shows a downward trend. Of course, all countries will have to make the change, without a doubt. We prefer to do so as cost-effectively as possible. This means that you can see that it is sometimes more difficult to reduce these emissions where there is already a lot of efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u91	The Secretary of State points to the Canadian province of Quebec and the U.S. state of California. A while back, in the footsteps of Paris, she took the initiative for that alliance for global carbon pricing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u93	I believe it was called the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. Can the Secretary of State at the AO on climate that we will be holding this autumn report on what has come out of it? It has made subsidy money available for it. I'm very curious about the results. Perhaps the Secretary of State can say something about it already, and otherwise I would like her to do so during the AO on climate that we will have in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u94	I think it would be good if we did this extensively during that general consultation in the autumn. Feike Sijbesma, you know him, is on behalf of the Netherlands the advanced post in that Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. What we're actually trying to do there is get our hands on each other worldwide for a price on carbon. That is very important, both because industry is asking for it, and because there are more and more governments who think that this is a very good way to take steps. It is remarkable that China, for example, wants to roll out this system throughout the country. We are currently experimenting with a number of regions. Such a rollout would be a great step. I come to my second and last block, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u95	Before that, I shall first give the floor to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u96	Does the Secretary of State agree that, as long as ETS does not function as it should, additional national measures are urgently needed to stay on track to achieve the Paris objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u97	But we have already taken all kinds of national measures. That's what I'm gonna be talking about in my next block. We are doing this because the Netherlands, like all EU Member States, must organise themselves in a way that we are going to comply with that Paris agreement. However, it is not the case that we are now suddenly, in anticipation of the ETS, self-contained with, for example, a CO levy. That is not part of government policy. It is up to a new cabinet to decide on this. Some parties will negotiate on this and others will apparently not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u98	The Secretary of State will continue with the second block of her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yes. I come to the question of how we state that CO emissions have remained virtually the same. Since 2005, CO emissions have also decreased in a limited way. One explanation for this limited decrease is, among other things, that there was an increase in electricity production in the Netherlands, and thus also a decrease in electricity imports. The Minister will be able to tell us more about this later. Mrs Arissen and Mrs Kröger then asked what national measures the cabinet had in mind. As I said, the Netherlands is committed to the Paris agreements. With the energy agreement, we have taken a first, irreversible step towards a low greenhouse gas economy. We are currently working together on the further development of the Energy Agenda. This concerns not only CO emissions and their reduction, but also other greenhouse gas emissions. We had a debate last week on methane, so I will not go into that now, but we have also had an extensive picture of that. This must therefore result in a clear and transparent policy in the long term, leading to a drastic reduction of emissions to almost zero by 2050. Mrs Arissen asked if I could explain why low-hanging fruit is not picked. Then she said: I will just mention, as an example, a drastic reduction in meat and dairy consumption. When choosing policies, there is always a combination of considerations of cost-effectiveness, feasibility in implementation and also social support. The Netherlands is currently negotiating at European level what needs to be done in the so-called non-ETS sectors, including agriculture. This means that, when our objective in this area is clear, we will have to submit a set of measures to the Chamber for each of these sectors. As has been said, we are actually on the right track in the non-ETS sectors. I think it's fair to say that. We are achieving the objective we need to achieve. Does it mean that there will be no firm action in the future? No, there will be. Moreover, I am not sure whether an example such as drastically reducing meat consumption is also seen by a very large proportion of the population as 'low-hanging fruit', because that will undoubtedly lead to very strong discussion in society. They also asked about the involvement of the population. Mrs Mulder was right to point that out. I think that is an important point to keep thinking about, including for future rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mrs Arissen wants to respond to that. Is it Árises or Aríssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr President, it is Árises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u102	Okay, go ahead, Mrs. Árises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u103	It's a fact: if every Dutchman didn't eat meat one day a week, but for example a meat substitute or something else, that would be the equivalent of taking 1 million cars off the Dutch roads. So that is definitely low-hanging fruit. The meat industry and the livestock industry have such a huge impact on world food supply. The cultivation of animal feed competes with the cultivation of human consumer goods. We could use them much better and more efficiently for food for humans. Then we can feed about 4 billion more people and our impact on the climate will be much smaller. So that seems to be low-hanging fruit after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u104	There is no discussion between us about the effectiveness of being, for example, flexible. That is one of the reasons why the government does a lot of information about the effect, the footprint, that you have with all your actions, such as long showering, meat eating, etc. So there are a lot of ways to help people make their own choices at this point. Ms Mulder asked about the forecast of emissions in the ETS sectors in the Netherlands. National Energy Exploratory 2016 expects a reduction in emissions from Dutch ETS companies in the coming years. Mrs Kröger asked if we could talk to the transport sector to reduce CO. Yeah, I'm sure you should. I am talking to this sector on many fronts. Under the Energy Agreement, a broad-based fuel vision has been developed in consultation with the transport sector. We are now working with parties to implement that vision. A wide-ranging discussion was also held with, among other things, the transport sector during the Energy Dialogue in preparation for the Energy Agenda. When drawing up the Energy Agenda, we are also in full consultation with all stakeholders, especially with the transport sector. For inland waterway transport, the target is to be emission-free by 2050. That is what we want to achieve in steps. For example, we support this through regulation. Financial support for the sector by public authorities is also likely to be necessary. So that's what they're all looking at. For international shipping, which the Minister of I and M is in favour of, I am in favour of developing global market-based measures for CO reduction. In this context, it is important to maintain a level playing field for the shipping sector, which is economically important for the Netherlands. For aviation, to which I myself was allowed to contribute, an agreement on climate-neutral aviation growth was made in Montreal last year in the international context, within ICAO. The last point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u105	I see Mrs Kröger standing, but I do not know whether she is waiting until the end of the Secretary of State's speech or whether she has a specific question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u106	It is specifically about this, about talks with the transport sector and possibilities to get the transport sector to make more CO savings. In the case of heavy industry, the Minister finally imposed a binding measure. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of doing the same in the transport sector to prevent us from being in a similar situation next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u107	We are now in the middle of a discussion on the measures to be taken by all non-ETS sectors, including transport and mobility, for the coming period. That conversation isn't over yet, so I'm not going to anticipate it. 'Cause that's what I'd think was really crazy to do. After all, we are still having an open conversation about this. It has yet to be negotiated how, for example, the Netherlands is working on these non-ETS targets, as it is called, in a European context. So that conversation's still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u108	In industry, we have seen that the conversation went on for a very long time before binding measures were put in place. Can the Secretary of State outline a timetable? When should it be clear that either the sectors themselves are taking the measures necessary to achieve CO reduction or there are binding public action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u109	Now you're messing up a few files, if you don't mind me saying so. You have the energy agreement with all kinds of agreements; the Minister knows that much better than I do. In some respects, there was doubt as to whether those agreements that were made themselves would be met. Then you might take a step at some point. This concerns what the transport and mobility sector should do in the long term in order to meet its non-ETS objective. To this end, it will first have to be agreed within Europe on the precise objective and the task for the Netherlands. There we are, as we speak, busy with it. This will then have to be worked out in a set of measures. Believe me, these will sometimes have to be tough measures. After all, there is still much to be done in order to achieve a climate-neutral sector. Meanwhile, we say in bus transport for example: from 2025 all buses in the Netherlands are climate neutral. Thus, agreements have already been made, with local authorities, with bus carriers and even with the builders of buses, including VDL. The energy agreement also mentions cars and the way in which and at what time they should be climate neutral. There are all agreements, and that is what we are doing. Some of it is still being negotiated within Europe. Those two things shouldn't be confused, because at least I'll lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u110	Madam Secretary of State, you wanted to start with your final point. Maybe you can start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mrs Kröger asked how we intend to comply with the Urgenda ruling. We have sent several letters to the Chamber about this. We believe, on the basis of the NEV 2016 and the additional measures that have been agreed, that we are going to make it. As soon as the NEV 2017 arrives, we can see if it really is. If it is not, we will have to take additional measures, with the closure of a coal power plant that does not contribute to the renewable energy targets in mind. You've read all that in letters to the Chamber before. Mr President, that was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs. He'll go into industry. He has been asked a number of questions about this. I would like to invite him to answer the questions first and, if necessary, to make some general comments. I would like to begin with the answers to the questions; some Members have asked me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr. Chairman. I thought I was talking about my own answers. I would like to reply, but very different comments are being made. One asks what else we're gonna do and the other says CO is only good. I'd like to put a little structure into it. I would like to answer the questions as quickly as possible, but at the same time put them in a framework. The CO reduction we are talking about is very closely linked to energy saving. The cabinet is particularly ambitious when it comes to reducing CO emissions and reducing energy consumption. We have included high ambitions in the coalition agreement: the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. We did that for the period up to 2017. Everything we've planned, we've done. We have also concluded an energy agreement with ambitious objectives for the period up to 2023. We have also established an Energy Agenda for the period up to 2050. The aim is to eventually achieve a CO-neutral economy by 2050. The cabinet is very organized about that. It is therefore good to see the various things that play, on which critical remarks are often made, in a broader context. Take the ETS. This system is generally discussed negatively, but it results in a 21% reduction in CO emissions in Europe by 2020 compared to 2005. In 2030, that will be 43%. This major improvement is achieved as a result of the ETS. The Netherlands does not go far enough. We want to strengthen the ETS further. Moreover, we want to take additional measures in the years in which this tightening has not yet been achieved and there is insufficient pressure on the Dutch industry to reduce COte emissions from that system. That is not only a good intention of ours; we have already included it in the energy agreement. It also provides for an additional energy saving of 100 petajoules. One part of this is an additional saving of 9 petajoule by the energy-intensive industry. The additional savings that need to be made are very significant. The energy-intensive industry in the Netherlands is currently facing two additional challenges. Firstly, there is the so-called MEE agreement, which states that these companies must take measures to save energy. This covenant leads to a saving of 22 petajoules. The 9 petajoule we're talking about is on top of that. This total, the 31 petajoule extra that must be saved by energy-intensive industry, corresponds to the energy consumption of 500,000 households in the Netherlands. I am talking about the total electricity and gas consumption of 500 000 households; that is the extra energy savings that Dutch industry-intensive energy must achieve. We are careful with this industry because we have a very efficient industry in the Netherlands. If the industry in the Netherlands is damaged as a result of Dutch policy, the production of that efficient Dutch industry is taken over by inefficient industry outside the Netherlands. This would have a damaging effect on CO emissions and would therefore be detrimental to the environment and climate policy. Moreover, this would, of course, be very damaging to prosperity and employment in the Netherlands. We are therefore ensuring that there is always a strong pressure on this industry, but that this pressure is such that it remains intact and can contribute to the achievement of European and global objectives. That's what the industry does very well. CO emissions in the Netherlands come mainly from industry and energy generation, the generation of electricity. Economic growth of 3.4% was achieved in the last year, but the associated growth in CO emissions was 1.9%. It therefore lags significantly behind the growth of the economy and industrial production. I think that is a positive development. Industry is already under pressure from the ETS. As has been said, the cabinet wants to increase this pressure in the Netherlands. We want to see lasting results over the years, even in the years when this pressure is not really felt by the energy-efficient industry in the Netherlands compared to the pressure that is felt elsewhere in Europe. That is why we are going to take additional measures in the Netherlands. They have been worked out in the Energy Agenda. I can assure you that these are all far-reaching measures. This requires major adjustments in industry. The Secretary of State and I therefore feel very encouraged by the attitude of that industry. It's not like the industry doesn't want to. On the contrary, she constantly stresses the importance she attaches to this greening, the transition from fossil to renewable energy and the sustainability of industry. She'd like to hang out with us in that. I think that this is a very good basis for the next cabinet to follow up on the energy agreement, which, at least by the year 2023, we have been able to reach firm agreements. According to the review carried out by the parties to the Energy Agreement in December 2016, these objectives will all be met. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about a study by De Groene Amsterdammer. Let me first say in general terms that I have great appreciation for what is happening at De Groene Amsterdammer. I think it is very good how one delivers remarkable journalistic products with a small team and a small budget. In this case, it is. But it is always good to add some comments. The article says that it would be so great that in Sweden, where a carbon tax has been introduced, gross domestic product has increased by 60% since 1991. I like that very much, but I note that it has increased by 70% in the Netherlands during the same period. In addition, I note that Sweden has arranged the matter in such a way that the ETS companies are completely excluded from the carbon tax and that non-ETS companies receive a large reduction in the carbon tax. You always have to look at it in its entirety. When you look at the whole of pressure on the Dutch industry and pressure on the Swedish industry, I think there is little reason to simply take over the Swedish model. By the way, I am very pleased with the active attitude of Sweden and the Swedish industry, just as pleased with that of the Dutch industry. I hope that we will come to a common approach in Europe because CO emission reduction can only be regulated internationally, including at European level. With this I have answered a number of questions. Mrs Dijksma has already spoken about the implementation of the Urgenda judgment. We have appealed against that judgment, but that does not alter the fact that we want to achieve that judgment because it was imposed on us by the judge. We are pleased to note that, as it stands at present, we are able to meet the requirements laid down in it. That is a positive development. Moreover, it is only a step on a road which must be continued thereafter. It is good to see what the efforts of industry in the Netherlands have made in practice. As some spokesmen have already pointed out, the CBS has calculated that the greenhouse gas intensity is known to be by far the largest greenhouse gas in industry in the period between 1995 and 2014, a 20-year period, has fallen by almost half. This means that almost half less CO is emitted in industry per unit of production. These are the efficient Dutch industry and the efficient Dutch energy-intensive industry I am talking about. You can also see in electricity production, where we closed down old coal plants, that last year there was the effect of a 10% reduction in CO emissions from coal plants. That is another contribution that is being made. These are all loose figures, the coherence of which is not immediately clear at the moment, but which is provided by the Energy Agreement and the Energy Agenda. It is important to realise that, wherever possible, steps must be taken in the right direction to achieve the objective of preventing accidents in the world by managing climate change, as set out in the Paris agreements. Everywhere there are opportunities to contribute to this, they will have to be used to the full, that is the government's commitment. My belief is that this will also be the commitment of the next cabinet, however it may look. I'll see if I left any questions. That is not the case with Mrs Arissen. Mrs Beckerman says the Netherlands is a polluter's paradise, but I think this is a joke. Of course, the Netherlands is not a polluter-sparadis at all. The Netherlands is a country that has the ambition to take the lead in correcting what has grown in the past century or decades. We want to make a significant contribution to this in an international context, and we are doing everything we can to do so. The Netherlands is a country with a very strong economy and a very strong business, but that business is also very motivated to achieve together those goals that we are both convinced are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u114	I would like to come back to achieving the objectives of the Urgenda trial. The Minister certainly says that it will be no problem to achieve these goals. I understand that the forecast in the NEV 2016 is that we are achieving 23% CO reduction. That means we're not gonna make it to the Urgenda targets. The latest figures show that it is stagnating or that sectors are going to do worse. My question to the Minister is how the Chamber can be sure that we are going to achieve the Urgenda goals. What's it gonna take for us to get that certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u115	I've never wanted to suggest that we're just gonna make that Urgenda pronunciation easy, but given the judge's ruling, we're gonna have to get it. I let the room know how we're gonna get it. I am also prepared to let the Chamber know how we did it, more detailed. That shows that we're gonna make it to 25%. If there's any doubt, it's because we're gonna get more than less. The National Energy Exploratory 2016, which will be followed by the NEV 2017 in October, indeed indicated that we would reach 23%. We then took other measures, including in order to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement. By achieving those objectives of the Energy Agreement, we are also achieving the judgment of the judge in the Urgenda judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u116	So you have indications that 25% is actually in range for the NEV 2017? If you are to ensure that this is not the case, what measures do you intend to take to achieve the Urgenda targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u117	I don't need to take any action to do that. I let the Chamber know how we're gonna get that ruling from the judge in the Urgenda case. The Chamber is half new in composition. This is an important subject and Mrs Kröger is very interested, and rightly so. I would be happy to give you an example of what that is all about, including detail. I think that the issue is important enough, so we will certainly do so. Mr Dijkstra made a balanced speech in which he indicated that the CO targets had to be met. He stressed the importance of placing the Dutch efforts in an international context. He also stressed that the preservation of employment, prosperity and quality of Dutch industry must be constantly in focus. I very much agree with him. Mrs Kröger said that the Dutch industry is doing badly. I think that the Dutch industry is doing very well and have just illustrated this: it is doing well both in hard figures and in its attitude and attitude towards this problem. Mrs Kröger also asked for far-reaching measures. We have already taken many, sometimes very far-reaching, measures. That is why the route we set out in the coalition agreement, the energy agreement and the Energy Agenda will prove to be successful. That is also necessary, because the ultimate objective is very important. I have already answered Mrs Mulder's questions. Mr Van Aalst asked how many jobs the cabinet would be willing to sacrifice. The cabinet is not prepared to sacrifice jobs at all. It is up to us to preserve jobs and create additional jobs. We are doing this with great success. The situation here in the Netherlands is that economic growth is currently going faster than in the surrounding countries. In the period between the first quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, according to the CBS, there was an economic growth of 3.4%, while all economists were still in line a few years ago to declare that 1% would be the maximum. We see employment rising faster than for many years. Unemployment is falling faster than in many years. Our industry is able to export more every year in the current difficult conditions on the world market, with strong competition, and to further strengthen the position of the Netherlands in terms of employment. I have answered Mrs Kuik's question concerning De Groene Amsterdammer. The agreements I made with the industry are tough. They were very difficult appointments. I have had to do many difficult things over the past 4.5 years, but the agreement to get 9 petajoule extra energy savings from the energy-intensive industry has been very difficult. It's recorded as follows: Each company is indicated what it should save. If companies don't, they get a fine. That fine is used to achieve energy savings in a different way. We have noted, like the ECN, that this can lead to the desired results. However, if we do not achieve the desired results together, this will be transformed into a legal measure. So I can assure you that this has worked out very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u118	I have a question for the Minister about these future measures. I am referring to the additional savings obligations, to the closure of our coal plants and to the closure of the transfer of coal in our Dutch ports. Can the Minister indicate what impact this has on employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u119	The cabinet is not out on the exclusion of coal power stations. We agreed in the energy agreement that five out of ten coal plants in the Netherlands would be closed. Secretary of State Dijksma referred to the letter on the other five coal power stations which we have already sent to the Chamber. That was a nuanced letter, the content of which does not correspond to the suggestion made by Mr Van Aalst. For me, therefore, there is no point in commenting on the closure of all coal power stations and the supply of coal, which is not in line with government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u120	Mrs Kröger, you have already placed quite a few interruptions. We now have time, because this is today's last debate, but I wanted to give you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u121	This will be my final question in this debate, Mr President. The Minister is extremely positive about the establishment of Dutch industry and industry. Yesterday, the leader of the VVD was critical of the climate ambitions of Dutch business, and rightly so, in our opinion. He indicated that the companies do not give up 20% of what is needed to achieve the goals of Paris. Does the Minister share this criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u122	I think that what the Prime Minister has said in a number of places, including Mrs Kröger, has been summed up too short. The cabinet believes that it is important that we achieve the objectives of Paris and that the Netherlands should make a full contribution to this. This means that industry must also contribute to this. The cabinet is pleased that industry wishes to comply with all the agreements made in the energy agreement. The cabinet is also pleased that it is the ambition of those who lead the big Dutch companies to go even further. Their message to the cabinet is not: take it easy and be careful. No, their message is: the transition from fossil to renewable energy and the transition to a CO-poor and ultimately CO-neutral society are realistic objectives that we support and to which we as an industry want to fully contribute. They're pushing us. I am therefore not prepared to make any negative comments about the Dutch industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u123	Can I say, then, that the Minister is much more positive than his party leader on the role of business and the ambitions that are laid down? What does the Minister think business should do and what ambitions should it set in order to achieve the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u124	It's not like I'm more positive than the Prime Minister. The cabinet policy pursued by Mrs Dijksma and I for the transition from fossil to renewable energy and the reduction of CO emissions has been implemented under the leadership of the Prime Minister. So our attitude is as positive as that of the Prime Minister and vice versa. There is no point in summing up and explaining something that has been said somewhere as something in which there would be a difference between one and the other within the cabinet. I think that's political with a small p. The point is that you have an important long-term objective and that you are consistently working to achieve it. That's what the cabinet is doing under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte. In that respect, there is no difference of opinion between Mrs Dijksma and me and the Prime Minister. I have dealt with the issue of CO emissions and the various aspects involved. Mrs Van Veldhoven had one more specific question for me: if you save 9 petajoule in the energy-intensive industry, how much will that make for the CO emission reduction? The CO emission reduction resulting from that 9 petajoule saving is 0.5 megaton.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u125	I like to hear that the Minister thinks I'm funny, but I actually wanted to hear a more serious reaction. I have indeed said that the Netherlands is a polluter's paradise, a paradise for polluters. I have mentioned a number of numbers. Companies generate 3.3 billion climate damage and pay 1.5 billion. The account lies with households, who pay 5.4 billion, while causing 2.6 billion damage. So it is true that the account is not paid by the polluter, but by households. Then I think my conclusion that the Netherlands is a polluter-sparadijs is justified. Will the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u126	When I hear that the Netherlands is a polluter's paradise, I can only say that I find that funny, because of course that does not make any sense at all. The Netherlands is not a polluter-sparadis at all. The Netherlands is a country with a very well-organised government and an efficient industry, which is ambitious in environmental and climate terms, makes far-reaching agreements and even wants to go beyond those agreements. This is constantly and consistently being worked on jointly by the parties that have concluded the energy agreement, from energy-intensive industry to Greenpeace. Everyone is working to make the Netherlands a pioneer in the fight against pollution. Now for the costs that Mrs Beckerman is talking about. What does she think will happen if costs stick with business? These costs are simply passed on to the price of their products and ultimately they are paid by the consumer. So of course you can stop a reasoning that everything is paid by the consumer. That's right. That is why we would very much like to achieve the objectives for energy and climate, CO reduction and the transition to renewable energy in such a way that we maintain prosperity and employment in the Netherlands. That is the policy we have pursued over the last four and a half years. This has been very successful, because as a cabinet, we have achieved both that transition to renewable energy and that economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u127	I'm sure Mrs. Beckerman would like to comment on that in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u128	I'd like to ask the Minister a follow-up question. One of the polluters at the top is Royal Shell. That company is even in the top six of the biggest polluters worldwide. I have a strong impression that the Netherlands offers paradise conditions for Shell. Shell is the biggest polluter but lives here in paradise conditions. This week, it was found that a study co-financed by Shell could lead to Shell enjoying a tax advantage. That's very paradiseful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u129	I appreciate Mrs Beckerman very much, but this remark really does not make any sense. If I catch a small company, I can say that that company is not at all among the top million of the big polluters in the world. But if I take on a very large company, which provides energy supply, which operates in all the countries of the world and employs hundreds of thousands of people, which provides the energy that the economy in the world is now operating on, then of course it is a company that also produces CO emissions through all those activities that it is developing. That's connected to that. But you can't just translate that into a negative statement about that company. I'm pointing out Shell's actions. This company invests enormously in its installations in Rotterdam to ensure that environmental and climate pressures are reduced as much as possible. You can also see that Shell is making the transition from fossil to renewable energy. Shell is going to build a large wind farm off the Dutch coast, the company is really working on that transition. And you can see that the CEO of Shell Netherlands constantly encourages the government to further strengthen sustainability policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u130	I see that Mrs Beckerman wishes to respond to this, but I would now like to give the floor to Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u131	I thank the Minister for the answers. As far as I am concerned, there is still a question about exports. I have visited many companies in the chemical industry and in the oil industry, including Rotterdam and South Limburg. I always ask: what do you make and where does it go? It often turns out that 80% to 90% is export-related. In the answers to our questions it was also stated that the Dutch Emission Authority, the NEA, is only looking at what is happening here in terms of emissions for the monitoring of CO emissions. An adjustment of imports and exports is not taken into account. If 80% to 90% of the production of some companies, companies that are really big emitters, is export-related, how fair is it is that we have formulated those CO reduction targets as they are now formulated by country? Should we not take this into account and is there any possibility of disabling such exports and imports in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u132	As I said, Mr Dijkstra has made a balanced speech. This too is a realistic remark. The Netherlands is one of the top five exporting countries in the world. Our port in Rotterdam is the largest port in Europe. Our airport is almost Europe's number two airport. We are an economically very active country. If you want to export a lot, you also have to make a lot of things. So a lot of things are being made in the Netherlands. That is why I think it is important that we make balanced international agreements. The best opportunities for this are at European level. Mr Dijkstra called for all aspects of the agreement to be taken into account, including the aspect he mentioned. I think this is a justified incentive, for which I thank him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u133	If we were to discount exports, it would be a good idea for a balanced picture to discount imports as well. We make a lot here and we export a lot, but we still import a lot. For the total image it would therefore be good to discount the import. I have another question for the Minister about the arrangements made to get the 9 petajoule done. He has rightly explained how this has been recorded. As far as my group is concerned, that looks good. Those agreements were made in the context of an energy agreement that runs until 2023. If you are really talking about agreements that should lead to reductions in a capital-intensive industry, then you do not want investment to be made very often. How does the Minister take account of the need to optimise the investments to be made not only by 2020 or 2023, but also by 2030 and possibly further? Let's at least look at 2030. Solutions that create a lock-in should not be chosen, but rather solutions that are really structuralally facilitating energy savings in industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mrs Van Veldhoven says that, in addition to exports, imports must also be taken into account. She's right about that. However, imports are relatively less important. In view of what we export as the Netherlands, we bring in 40% of what we need through imports. It is true that imports must also be taken into account, but imports are less important than exports. I come to the other point. Mrs Van Veldhoven is right on that point, as she was right when she said that it might not be appropriate for companies to invest in energy saving and reduce CO emissions that are being recovered in just five years. Mrs Van Veldhoven said it's legally mandatory and that you should just do it. It is of the utmost importance to bear in mind the payback times and the relevance of the investments when you make agreements with the industry. You can also see how these agreements can be implemented. In the energy agreement, we agreed in a certain way on the results. I think it's a good system. I would like to leave it to those who will be responsible for this energy agreement after 2023, whether this should be further developed in future, in the case of a possible follow-up to the Energy Agreement, which is a follow-up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u135	It is important, however, that this minister looks very closely at the possibilities of developing an investment plan with these companies, not only before 2023 but also for further years, in the agreements he is currently making with companies in one-on-one situations. I call on the Minister to consider as much as possible whether we can prevent lock-ins and help as many companies as possible to make investments that will help us all on a structural basis, not only in 2023 but also in view of the objectives that will be higher in 2030, as Mrs Dijksma has just pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u136	At the moment, I cannot do any more in my position towards the energy-intensive industry. I must tell you that the impact of the 9 petajoule has been very difficult. In the end, we laid down very hard what it has to achieve in terms of energy savings. That's exactly what's laid down for each company. We also agreed with companies that there would be a penalty system if they didn't make it. We have discussed the question of what should be done with this fine and what about the possible legal measure that will follow. I've gone to the limit of what I could reasonably do. I do not see any more possibilities in my missionary period to do more than we have already done. I think it is good in itself that we have been able to translate the very ambitious objectives of the coalition agreement, which lasted until the year 2017, into an energy agreement that runs until the year 2023. We have also been able to define the Energy Agenda up to the year 2050. That is the legacy of Mrs Dijksma and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u137	We will continue with the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Arissen of the Animal Party. In the second term of a 30-member debate, speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the last year greenhouse gas emissions from the Dutch industry remained unchanged, at 94 million tonnes, the highest level ever measured;]] [[noting that the ETS system, the main government measure to reduce CO emissions from industry, does not provide sufficient guidance to get Dutch industry to the savings needed for the Paris climate target;]] [[having noted that Sweden is a leading CO reduction and achieved a reduction of 54.5% between 1990 and 2014, mainly by introducing a CO tax;]] [[calls on the government to be inspired by the Swedish policy to reduce CO emissions in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u139	I would very much like to respond to what Secretary of State Dijksma said about the low-hanging fruit and the meat industry. The fact check of the NRC found that one day a week no beef food equals a month of not showering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you, Mrs Arissen, for this wise lesson. Then we shall continue with Mrs Beckerman's speech from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mrs Beckerman is very happy that she has not eaten beef for a month. Mr. Chairman. I think the minister and I live in very different worlds. Before I provoke another discussion, I would like to use this second term to file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the disappearance of billions of biomass subsidies in coal-fired power stations;]] [[considers that this retention of polluting industry is highly undesirable;]] [[calls on the government to put these subsidies into real sustainability measures such as housing insulation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Chairman. This room is a beautiful reflection of society. We have heard the deniers. We've heard the people who don't shower to save the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u143	What do you think you're getting yourself into?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u144	No, not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u145	I didn't say "you're a part of it," but I said, "What do you do with yourself?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u146	I'm gonna move on, 'cause my time's running out. The VVD stands for the Paris Agreement. I think it's good that those clear targets are in place. It is important to note that we are achieving the climate goal, the translation of Paris, in a European context. The Netherlands doesn't dig in there. The Netherlands takes its responsibility. All sectors are at the ball and have to make a contribution and that is really huge. For the VVD environment and economy go together very well, hand in hand. We can be proud of what we have achieved. So I think we should nuance all those negative stories in the media about the dirty little boy in the class more often. The VVD always tests policy against a number of criteria. That's five. The goal is central, not the means. Look wider than just the Netherlands; so no blinders with only national measures. Keep looking at the competition field, the impact on jobs and investment. Encourage innovation. And finally, as much technology-neutral as possible. What I want to add to that is support. You can do something top-down, but you have to take the people. So support from the bottom is important, as is affordability, so that we can look forward to a safe and clean future for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mr. Chairman. I thank the two rulers for their response. We will often have this debate in the coming years, because there is a great deal of urgency in climate policy. To have a good debate, we need good facts. In its November report, the PBL indicated that more than 100% CO2 reduction is needed to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. Since this is part of the goals of Paris, we would like this to be taken into account. The scenarios for 2°C, i.e. 80% to 95%, have been translated into a report on the cost of the energy transition. It seems to us valuable for the Chamber to see a similar transfer for the 1.5°C. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the examination of the PBL on national energy transition costs was based on an emission reduction of 80% to 95%;]] [[noting that this is not in line with the 1.5°C objective of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to request the PBL to carry out a study on national energy transition costs, based on the 1.5°C objective of the Paris Climate Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr. Chairman. All my questions have been answered clearly, thank you for that. I look forward to the next debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I call Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u150	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister and Secretary of State for the answer and we are pleased that the closure of coal power stations and the cessation of fossil activities in the port of Rotterdam are not cabinet policy. However, it seems to be the subject of the negotiating table. That is a matter of great concern to the PVV, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce any further greening measures as they are detrimental to employment in energy-intensive industries and in particular coal plants and the port of Rotterdam,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr. Chairman. I shall comment on two motions, first of all on the Arissen motion on item No. 134. After a number of considerations, Mrs Arissen asks us to be inspired by Swedish policy. The Minister has just explained in his first term exactly what is happening in Sweden. There is both an energy tax and a CO tax, but the ETS companies have an exemption for the CO tax and they also have a 30% reduction in the energy tax. Non-ETS companies also do not pay the full CO tax in Sweden: agriculture, forestry, aquaculture. They do pay the full energy tax. I must add that the instruction to "inspiring us" is also not very clear, so in view of what the Minister has already said in his speech, I would like to advise against this motion. Then I come to the Kröger motion on part No. 136. I'm going to dissuade them, too. I have just explained that in the long run that scenario of 1.5°C will undoubtedly be calculated, but we simply need the IPCC report for that. There is no alternative but to wait for that, because then we will only know what the global challenge is. Then we can look from Europe at what our contribution as a whole should be, and then we will have to look at what that means for the Netherlands. That is the only logical order of things and therefore what Mrs Kröger is asking me in this motion is something we cannot do. For that reason, unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman has tabled a motion on item No. 135. She said she had the impression that she and I live in other worlds in terms of sustainability, energy and everything related to it. I don't think that's the case. Look at what the cabinet has done with regard to the transition from fossil to renewable energy and to what it has done to reduce CO emissions and to make the best use of Dutch industry to achieve what is necessary. I think the cabinet is doing a lot of things that are in line with what the SP Group wants. I also believe that it is possible to achieve constructive cooperation between the parties supporting this cabinet and the SP Group in this area. So I don't see these different worlds. There is a difference in tone. That's true. However, that can be bridged. The motion in part No. 135 in which Mrs Beckerman asks for subsidies for biomass reform to be abolished, I can only advise against it. Biomass is a form of renewable energy. This has been established by the European Commission, which has imposed obligations on the Netherlands. In order to meet those obligations, biomass should be used. We have made subsidies for the use of biomass, in accordance with what was agreed in the energy agreement. It is not possible not to comply with these grant commitments. This is not possible for legal reasons, nor for moral reasons. It wouldn't be desirable, either. After all, we want to achieve these objectives, including through the use of biomass. The motion in part No. 135, I'm guessing. The motion in part No. 137 belongs to Mr Van Aalst. He says that the government should not take any further greening measures, because they are detrimental to employment in industry, in coal power stations and in the port of Rotterdam. Responsible greening measures are not necessarily harmful to employment. Responsible greening measures are necessary in themselves. They are also necessary from the point of view of employment in order to maintain employment in the long term. Moreover, the Dutch industry also sees greening measures as an opportunity. It is a global problem and we can contribute from the Netherlands to solutions, both for the Netherlands itself and for our exports of goods and services in the world. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this motion is wrong. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 137 by Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u154	I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-9.u155	The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place on Tuesday. This brings us to the end of the discussions. I'll wish everyone at home.
