ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the report Honest parts of the Rathenau Institute. I welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and give Mr Hijink the floor first on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. More and more we are faced with both the positive and negative effects of platforms operating in the so-called collaborative economy. Thanks to smart online platforms, people come together and can be exchanged from meal to holiday home. Because why would you buy a chainsaw when you need it once a year, when the neighbor has one to borrow? Sharing is an effective means to reduce the purchase of surplus products. This effective use of resources should be encouraged. I would like to hear what the Minister can do to strengthen and stimulate such initiatives. Mr. Chairman. Through platforms such as Marketplace, thousands of second-hand products come within reach, a smart way to save or earn money and give products a second life. The same applies to a platform like Airbnb. If you have space, you can offer it to someone looking for a holiday home. Win-win, you might say, but unfortunately that is not always the case. Trouble and abuse occur in places where the commercial interest gains from the original parts. Carpooling with colleagues is not the same as using self-employed people commercially at far too low rates. Renting your property when you are on holiday is really something other than running a clandestine hotel via Airbnb. And cooking for your neighbor is quite different from serving a five-course dinner to 40 people in an illegal restaurant via AirDnD. Mr. Chairman. Using overcapacity is the original goal of the charitable platforms in the sharing economy: I have half an apple pie left that you get when you mow the lawn. But that's different from what a taxi company like Uber and meal delivery guy Deliveroo do. As a result of the positive image of the collaborative economy, these companies are emerging as old-fashioned couple bosses. The platform determines the conditions and the price, and the self-employed deliverer or driver carries the risks and the charges. How does the Minister view these developments? How does he actually classify the platforms that operate in different sectors? Does he see the collaborative economy as a sector in itself or does he look at the impact of platforms within existing sectors? What opportunities and risks does he actually see? I regret that we should now be asking these questions in this way, because we would of course have liked a response from the Minister to this report. He didn't send it. That makes this debate a strange debate, because we do not really know exactly where this minister stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Hijink is gloomy about the couple's bosses. Of course, Mr. Hijink, you are right to point out problems, but in Amsterdam we can see that an SP alderman has created Airbnb's growth there. He has ensured that taxes are levied, that people have to abide by the rules and that there is a firm enforcement. So isn't the conclusion exactly as the Rathenau writes? If the government is timely enough and sets clear frameworks, the collaborative economy can also work well with these large platforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u4	Sure. Quite rightly, Mr Paternotte is naming the success of the SP alderman in Amsterdam. He can't emphasize them enough! That's right. You need those rules and that enforcement, as the report rightly states. But you can also see that there will just be exploitation if you don't set rules in time. You can see that happening at Deliveroo, but also at Uber, it's been going on, and still is. At Deliveroo they are now forced to join forces and unite to plead for a collective agreement. That's what you want to get ahead of. So you need a government that looks proactively at the platforms instead of getting out of control first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u5	I hear all kinds of elements in the debate that seem to justify a debate with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, not with the Minister for Economic Affairs. So why are we having this debate with this minister right now? I understand the pain is mainly in files that don't belong to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u6	That's a fair point. This goes through all sectors and ministries. In the Committee on Social Affairs, too, the discussion on the labour law side of these kinds of platforms is now taking place; my colleague from the PvdA knows all about this. But operating Airbnb, Uber and other platforms also affects business interests. If you run a hotel in Amsterdam, you can easily suffer from a malicious private individual who is going to run a clandestine hotel next to you. Then I'll get back to this minister. So you have to look. I think it's broader than just Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm sticking to my position. Moreover, the honourable Member has already spoken of a strange debate. We don't have the right data, no cabinet response, and so on. Would it not have been better if this debate had been removed from the agenda so that we could speak a little more broadly about this matter at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u8	As far as I'm concerned, we still do. But you can turn it around. If you asked for a debate in May, wouldn't this minister have had ample time to formulate a response? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u9	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u10	The collaborative economy deserves support if public interests and fair sharing are promoted. There are now limits in Amsterdam; Mr Paternotte has already said so. The plentiful rental of homes is now being restricted. Does the Minister think that such enforcement should be followed up and that he has a role to play in this? What possibilities does he see for clear agreements on how different platforms are taxed and regulated? That is the approach that the collaborative economy demands of politics: stimulate the good and fight the wrongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ziengs on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. "A few years ago, no one had heard of it, either the collaborative economy or the job economy." This is how the foreword in the Fair Sharing report begins, which recently saw the light of day. It is logical that a cabinet response to this report has been requested, because the sharing economy is now passing us in many forms. This response is not yet available, so it seems to me that a real debate on this subject is not yet possible. That's what I just reported to my colleague. However, I would like to use the speaking time available to say a few things about it. In the last century it was customary in peasant villages to buy together an agricultural machine for, for example, the grubbing-up of beets or potatoes. This was all organized from the cooperative. Sharing economy is therefore of all times and absolutely not new. All kinds of new initiatives in the market that can be dealt with under the collaborative economy seem to be the immediate point of discussion, because there is a fear that a level playing field with traditional companies is lacking. Let us deal with this wisely, first look at the regulations that have been imposed on traditional companies in recent years and try to alleviate them. This way you can also create a level playing field. What about initiatives like Airbnb? Let municipalities see for themselves what they can do with existing rules within regulations, if there is any inconvenience. It's still custom-made. Maybe Lutjebroek wants to attract tourists through Airbnb, while Amsterdam has a different policy. We can go on like this for a while. There are still a lot of uncertainties. I will therefore put forward a proposal at the next procedural meeting to organise a round table in which we invite parties who offer services, but also parties who are affected or perceive an uneven playing field, and then hold a general discussion with sufficient speaking time to enter into the debate with each other. That's where I want to stick. You will not receive any motions from me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a strange situation that we are sitting here debating and not yet having any reaction from the cabinet. But I see a very enthusiastic minister in trade union K who today took his entire staff with him on this subject. That's a good thing to say. We are going to try to share the CDA vision of sharing fairly with the Chamber. Sharing is of all times. Also in the last century it was very normal and social to share a cup of sugar with the neighbor or the neighbor. Taking someone familiar from the community with the car was everyday. A difference with the past is the rise of the sharing economy, that people have also started sharing their stuff with strangers, that sharing is done via online platforms and that there is usually a fee against sharing. This is no longer a matter of small polite compensations, but of real profits. For example, the turnover of private individuals via Marktplaats.nl in 2014 alone amounted to more than 8 billion euros. In addition, online platforms are becoming increasingly similar to professional commercial parties, which, as the report indicates, tend to develop into a monopolist to make a profit, especially as the owner of the platform. Mr. Chairman. The CDA sees benefits in the part- and job-creation economy. The positive thing about this development is, for example, that innovative entrepreneurship is created with additions to traditional supply in the market. In doing so, established entrepreneurs are challenged to innovate more. Re-use and effective use are also encouraged and the cohesion in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods can be strengthened through, for example, car parts. The CDA therefore wants to provide ample employment for developments that benefit the Netherlands and remove obstacles where necessary. On the other hand, the CDA also recognises the level playing field, public order and the prevention of negative side effects. The nuisance and crowds caused by the massive use of Airbnb with limited enforcement and not always the same rules in the area of tourist tax make it clear that there may also be shadowy sides to the sharing economy. Taxi drivers who drive without permits and dumping bicycles without consultation with the municipality in an overcrowded city centre have also led to the sharing economy having lost its innocence. Does the Minister agree with the report that the government should stimulate positive effects of the new practices and limit negative side effects and, if so, what does he see for himself? What recommendations does the Minister take from the report? Does he see opportunities to shape legislation and regulation in such a way as to encourage innovative entrepreneurship, but not to the detriment of a level playing field? Finally, Mr President. The CDA wants to ensure that the commercial aspect of the collaborative economy is given the upper hand and that the edges of fair entrepreneurship are explored. The CDA believes that there is nothing wrong with residents doing something for another without payment and does not see economicization of private life as an ideal image. The CDA therefore agrees with the thrust of the Rathenau Institute's report, which defines the collaborative economy as the phenomenon of allowing consumers to use each other's unused consumer goods, possibly in return for payment. Does the Minister support this definition of sharing economy, in which payment is not a key element?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u15	Do I see that Mr Paternotte has another interruption? No? Okay. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The collaborative economy ensures more efficient use of products, raw materials, entrepreneurship and innovation. Beautiful things no one can oppose and certainly not GroenLinks. However, every advantage also has a disadvantage and, unfortunately, this also applies to the collaborative economy. Is it fair that someone who rents his house doesn't have to meet the same requirements as a hotel? How do we ensure that we do not take a step back in terms of labour rights? Do the capitalists not profit disproportionately from the sharing economy, while people who have less resources might miss the boat? We absolutely cannot and do not want to stop the collaborative economy, but it is high time that the government formulated an answer to possible disadvantages and dilemmas. Appropriate policies should not take the form of many strict rules, but should be flexible in this digital age. Rathenau's excellent report on the sharing economy provides a full toolbox. Is all these tools equally dear to the Minister or are there instruments that are useless in his eyes? An instrument that Rathenau does not mention is the covenant. Does the Minister think it is a good idea to give a platform that can conclude a covenant with the relevant stakeholders more quickly, for example, or otherwise reduce the burden on strict rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u17	I hear beautiful GroenLinks words about the right to challenge and about the sharing economy and they are welcome. But GroenLinks in Amsterdam is in favour of banning Airbnb in that city. Where you say that you do not want to stop the sharing economy, but regulate it, it seems as if they are going a step further. Or do you support GroenLinks Amsterdam in the desire to make Airbnb disappear from the city?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u18	Through the chairman, please, Mr Paternotte. I call Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with the agreements that have been made with Airbnb and I also see results. I am not in favour of a specific ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u21	Although the collaborative economy promotes more efficient handling of raw materials, there is a potential for the so-called rebound effect. Money saved by the collaborative economy can be spent on other environmentally damaging activities. What will the Cabinet do to prevent this rebound effect? Isn't a tax shift from possession to use a solution? There is still much legal uncertainty about rights, duties and responsibilities surrounding the collaborative economy. Here is an important task for the government. Can the Ministry of Economic Affairs commit itself to this, for example by opening a special window where people can contact with legal questions about unclear situations? At the moment there is the Space programme in Rules for Green Growth. That is where obstacles to legislation and regulation can be solved. Would the Minister like to promote this programme better with stakeholders in the collaborative economy? At present, few low-income people are reaping the benefits of the collaborative economy, which could benefit them so much. Is it possible to find ways of allowing less capital-intensive people to participate in the collaborative economy, for example by providing information and linking them to urban or senior passes? Access to the market is also important. The more users have a service, the more attractive that service is, but also the greater the likelihood of monopoly formation. The public authorities need to assess whether there is sufficient competition on the market and whether the entry barriers for new platforms are kept as low as possible. It is also important to stimulate not-for-profit platforms and to create space for local and social platforms. How do we take care of this? I'd like a response. Mr President, my group sees the future of the collaborative economy brightly, but at the same time the government must take control of the sharing economy. Rathenau's report offers excellent handles for this. I am therefore looking forward to a concrete cabinet plan which translates the suggestions contained in this report into new policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr President. It has already been recalled that we are having a separate debate today on an important report by the Rathenau Institute. Working on the robot society is also one of the Rathenau Institute's reports. In my view, these are two reports which provide the basis for very interesting and necessary debates that we should also have in the Chamber. But there is indeed no cabinet response yet. And this actually goes through all committees and all kinds of subjects. Social Affairs certainly plays an important role in this. That is why today's debate is important, but perhaps a little strange. Thank you very much for having the Minister here. I would like to point out, however, that an important accelerator of this collaborative economy that is emerging is the development of digital possibilities. We also saw that in the report Working on the robot society. We also say that we are living in a time of digital revolution, which makes it easier to offer all kinds of new businesses and services. A number of colleagues have also said before that it is very easy for a lot of people in the Netherlands to order things from the bank. That is absolutely an added value. There are also many new jobs and new jobs. But there is also a shadow side to this digital revolution and form of sharing economy. Without a cabinet response, it may be a bit difficult to continue with this at the moment, so I have a general question for the Minister. How does he see the role of the government when it comes to this digital revolution, its consequences and forms of collaborative economy? The Rathenau Institute points out that platforms and all kinds of new activities are emerging, and that this is a good thing. But if this activity gets bigger, the government also has a role to play. How does the Minister see the role of that government in this? We see in certain sectors that are growing in share economy: Airbnb, Uber and the taxi industry have already been mentioned. If this sharing economy grows, there will actually be a huge monopoly on the market, which, for example, is cheaper in the taxi sector and can compete with normal taxi companies. How does the Minister view this development? Here, too, the question must be asked: what is the role of the government in regulating this? Should the government regulate that? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, that is necessary. In previous revolutions, we have seen that we can do this together if there is an active government and active politics. Then it brings our country, the economy, but especially the people much more. How's the minister looking at this? Finally. There are all kinds of monopolists: Facebook, Airbnb, Uber. There's a few more. What is the role of the Authority Consumer & Market? Because this too is about the proper functioning of the market and it may be that market that has been disrupted at the moment. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. Between the believers and the skeptics of the collaborative economy, D66 feels most at home in the middle. To quote the apostle Paul: explore all things and preserve the good. Let me just say this because the Christian Union has signed off on this debate last minute. Because new possibilities are good. However, the government should not bump behind it for miles, but quickly bring laws and rules up-to-date. I mentioned Amsterdam as an example. The illegal taxi service Uberpop has stopped for a while. That battle still needs to be made for the position of cleaners, delivery workers and drivers who do not have the right insurance. But there is no reason to just gloom, because new platforms always offer new opportunities. As a sixth speaker in this debate, let me mention a group that has not yet been mentioned, but which we believe deserves it: the senior citizens. Last month, JPMorgan Chase published a report on the sharing economy based on the transactions of 300,000 Americans. What turns out is that 50-plussers are very strong in the collaborative economy. A quarter of drivers of taxi apps is 50-plus. The same applies to the animal nanny. Through the app, these workers in the pre-retirement phase have the flexibility they often seek, but not the discrimination in the labour market, which older people often encounter when they simply apply. The collaborative economy thus proves that older people can do well in the labour market. That is something the Minister should address in particular. After all, he has the ambition to retire part-time in a few weeks' time. So my question to the Minister is: do we know the effects of the sharing economy on our 50-plussers? Do we make optimal use of it and, if not, do you think that the job economy offers additional opportunities, especially for this group? The second thing I miss in this debate is Europe. Sharing platforms, of course, operate in the internal market. So without an additional permit, they can operate all over Europe. That leads to questions. What tax rules apply? Which Member State is liable for any problems? The European Commission is coming up with guidelines to prevent it from moving in a different direction in each country. They were published last year. My question to the Minister is therefore: how are these European Commission directives applied in the Netherlands by the government? Finally, the recommendations of the Rathenau Institute report. One advice is to create a trusted third party, so that governments can better enforce without compromising privacy. It is difficult to get a picture from such a third party, because if all data from the collaborative economy come together in one place, then there is a lot of personal information from people combined. So what should this look like in practice? Undoubtedly, the Minister is going to incorporate this into a cabinet response. Does he want to involve the Dutch Data Protection Authority and Bits of Freedom? Finally, the right to challenge. Challenging the law if there is a better alternative within the spirit of the law is a huge appeal to us. Does the Minister want to investigate that in his response? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you. There is another interruption for you from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u27	I have a question for Mr Paternotte, also because of his great knowledge of our capital. You can see that the use of some platforms is geographically highly concentrated. Amsterdam is a fantastic attraction for tourists. The use of Airbnb is excessive. It is in no relation to any other place in the Netherlands. Do you think that this should have consequences in conferring powers on local government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think that could be very good, but I am also very happy that Amsterdam turned out to have those powers, where, for example, it was about limiting the number of days. Amsterdam can choose to limit that further. But it is also a matter of the notification obligation that the city has recently introduced. I don't want to play the national council here, but you can see that that works too. Additional enforcement, a notification obligation and a limitation in the number of days ensure that Amsterdam now has the problem with Airbnb under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u29	Suppose these measures do not have the effect that everyone hopes to see. Would there be a situation in which local government should have the power to prohibit a platform in the most extreme case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u30	I can imagine that, but you yourself have just found that Amsterdam has made good agreements and that you are pleased with the results. Now you ask: should a municipality be able to prohibit a platform? I can imagine such a situation in the future, but it seems very premature to record it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to the Minister for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. When I hear the spokesmen in this way, I think that all the relevant aspects of the development of the collaborative economy that is now under way have been highlighted. It has certainly helped that the Rathenau Institute has produced a good report, in which a number of things have been described and put in perspective. That helped us, too. The sharing economy and the use of digital platforms are, as we all know, emerging. First of all, I see it as a source of innovation. A new dynamic is emerging. Things are changing. So you're gonna have new options. Of course, this is accompanied by displacement. Other things get in the background. New problems arise and new answers are needed. That's all part of it. This applies to those who want to use these platforms and the sharing economy, to those who suffer from them and to those who are responsible for rules and for complying with rules. If dynamics are created, it all moves and then we all have to rethink and determine our position. I think one thing is certain: the very important role that the digital platforms already play in bringing supply and demand together will only become more important. In the Netherlands, according to my survey, there are currently about 150 different initiatives in the collaborative economy, which are used on a varying scale, but often on a very large scale. The number of people using them is also increasing rapidly. In 2013, 6% of the Dutch did so. Last year that was 23%. Over a period of three years, the percentage thus increased from 6% to 23%. One of those platforms, Marketplace, is of course a very big player. A lot of people take advantage of that. This has also helped to boost the percentage. Of course, you can also see that the largest platforms are getting much bigger. If you want to sell something, you don't go to a small platform with a small chance of success, but to a large platform with a lot of chances of success, with many others looking for something. So it is a development that strengthens itself. That's what you see throughout the economy, especially in the collaborative economy. The Netherlands Bank has recently commissioned a survey. It indicates that 45% of the Dutch expect to use platforms for the rental of assets in the future. A third of the people in our country expect to take advantage of these platforms for the provision of services. So a lot of people know what's happening. They know that development. They see that they themselves have an interest in this and intend to use it, as far as they do not already do so. The collaborative economy, or the job-creating economy, that word has already been used; I think that "share economy" is the most beautiful word, which extends to more and more sectors and initiatives. That also has a disruptive effect. That's for sure. You can see that at Uber and Airbnb. In 2016, there were almost 1 million overnight stays in Amsterdam via Airbnb. Those nights would not otherwise have been there or would have taken place in a different way. So there has also been displacement. The spokesmen speak here about both opportunities and threats, and rightly so. As far as I am concerned, our first focus is on the opportunities and better access and use of existing goods. If you have something you don't use for some time, you can let others use it. I don't think it's crazy that you're asking for money for that, too. If people invest in something and use someone else, it's fine if that person carries some of the costs. If the person who took the initiative can earn something from that, then that's fine with me. New markets are emerging as a result of the collaborative economy. I have already said that there is also a new dynamic in existing markets. Consumers benefit from both the dynamics of existing markets and the new ones. It gives them more opportunities, greater transparency, more competition and a more diverse offer. Those are all benefits. But the sharing economy, of course, also has threats and disadvantages. The spokesmen also mentioned them. I would like to mention, for example, the issue of competition. I told you, they're getting bigger and bigger. This creates positions where you have to look at whether competition is being abused. Those who manage platforms have a lot of data at their disposal. Those data are worth money on their own. They can be used to make money, but the use of that data can also compromise privacy. That's a threat. Another threat is next. We have rules. Those rules have been established at a time when there has not been a collaborative economy. That goes for most of the rules. We need to see whether these rules can be used for this new development or whether an adjustment is needed. If those rules are not adequate, you run the risk that companies and individuals will use them to avoid their obligations, because they can stay out of the picture by using those platforms. We are responsible for public interests such as security, consumer protection, employee protection, privacy, as I have just mentioned, but also public order. If a lot of people come to a certain place in Amsterdam via Airbnb, this can lead to nuisance, which in turn can have effects on public order. These public interests may be under pressure. Those are all threats that play and they can play, as I just mentioned. The difficulty is that it often takes place in a grey area between private initiative and entrepreneurship, which is linked to the essence of a collaborative economy. Once something is entrepreneurship, if you use resources, capital, your own workforce and your entrepreneurial initiative to earn money, then you have to pay taxes and then you have to abide by the rules that apply to entrepreneurs. But if you're a private individual doing something, it's different. You are in a grey area, where you often look for that title for action, which makes you suffer as little as possible from governments and others, but can take advantage as much as possible of the opportunities that exist. That makes the whole thing a little tricky. To deal with this, the cabinet must allow opportunities to be exploited, react wisely, prevent the threats as much as possible and find a solution to the dilemma I just outlined, the grey area. The cabinet uses principles to shape the government's policy response. The very first thing we do is recognise and realise that it is a fact that this is a development that will continue, which is an integral part of our current economy and will be a major part of our future economy. We need to realise that we need to take further growth into account. The second is that we very much want innovation in this country; innovation because it is important to maintain dynamism and the economy and also to allow our position on the international competition market to be as strong as it is today. In this collaborative economy there is a lot of resurrection, a lot of innovation. So that's a good thing too. That is our second point of departure. The third principle is that it is pointless to try to manage what is happening in all sectors or what can take place there, only by general rules. Because it is very diverse in the form it takes and several individuals and companies are involved in a very different way. It is also necessary to apply tailor-made solutions to each sector and subject. An example of this is: we will often call this what happened to Airbnb in Amsterdam. There was a special development in one municipality. It was a development in which all the advantages and disadvantages I mentioned were very specific. We had to respond to that. This reaction was largely from the city council of Amsterdam, but it also came from us to a significant extent, from the government that has worked with them since the beginning to find solutions to the problems that arise, to help make agreements and to help make analyses. So the city council, in cooperation with the government, has managed to come up with a good answer and I think that's an example of how to respond locally with customization. I do not think it was possible to achieve with national rules what has now been achieved in Amsterdam with a specific approach. Those platforms that are there and that are getting stronger, we must take on their responsibility. The government must do so and ensure that it is organised in such a way that they take responsibility. This means that those platforms must ensure that it is made easy for those who use it to comply with the rules. If you're a private person and you do something once, you can. There's nothing against that. But if you do something businesslike, it's part of your administration, that the VAT is paid and that income tax is paid. The platform must realise that it is partly responsible for this. They need to realise that they have a great responsibility for this and that they need to organise their platform in such a way that it is easy to use that platform within the legal rules in this country. The final starting point that I would like to mention on our part, that of the government, is that we think that the development towards a circular economy - we attach the greatest importance to the creation of a circular economy in which raw materials are not unnecessarily used if raw materials and products can also be reused, the need for green growth, could be supported by the collaborative economy. From the point of view of the desirability of creating a circular economy and green growth, we also assess the activities that take place through the platforms with the collaborative economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u33	I would like to return to what the Minister said about the responsibility of the platforms. In his letter of 26 June, he writes about AirDnD, the platform where private individuals offer meals to other private individuals, that the platform talks with the NVWA, and then to the users of the platform to clarify what the legislation is and what hygiene requirements and the like are imposed. Next, he says in the letter: that is the responsibility of the platform, and that is the principle that we want to apply more broadly to the sharing economy. So you put part of the enforcement, part of the safeguarding of the public interest in the hands of the platform. That seems a bit strange to me, given that some of these semi-restaurants are literally being undertaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u34	Certainly, but it is not the case that we can only control everything with supervision and enforcement. In this country, for example, we should not employ several thousands but many tens of thousands in order to be able to sit on top of everything and keep an eye on everything. It is important that we work together with business and that we organise it together with them in such a way that it is also possible to keep to the rules. The platform and users of the platform should also be aware of their own responsibilities. Then we have the supervision behind us. However, it cannot be that we can only rely on supervision. I think that the example of AirDnD, which Mr Hijink presents, is a very good example. Over the past year, we have talked a lot with AirDnD about their function as a platform for living room restaurants and discussed what is important in terms of food safety and hygiene requirements. We also made sure that the NVWA made agreements with AirDnD on the part of the government. We have established that AirDnD has agreed to agree and to ensure that those who use the platform comply with the rules. I think it is also important for AirDnD to do so, because if they do, it is possible for them to play an important role in the Dutch economy in a responsible way on a large scale. If they don't do it and it stays in a grey area, it rubs along the edge of the law and there are constantly violations, then of course it doesn't go well. That's why AirDnD already has as a rule that a living room restaurant can't organise dinner more than once a week. They have also set a limit on the turnover that can be achieved by one restaurant via the AirDnD site. These are all steps in the right direction. There is cooperation with industry on this new development. How can we manage that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr Hijink for a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u36	I can't do this. What you are going to get are two parallel systems with on the one hand entrepreneurs running a catering company, who have to meet all the requirements, who can expect inspections and who have to respect the hygiene rules, and on the other hand hobbychef Max, for example, who offers 180 chairs in a farm every day of the week, except on Mondays, and runs a clandestine restaurant. As far as I'm concerned, if you're offering this, you're an entrepreneur, and as such, you have to be the subject of enforcement and the legislation that goes with it. Then you can't say: we leave it to the digital platform to inspect this kind of business, as far as I'm concerned, and to keep to the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u37	That last one's not right. That's not what I'm saying. The other thing Mr Hijink says is true. If you have a business, you are open as a restaurant six days a week and you can receive 180 people, then there is no discussion anymore: then you just have a business and then you have to follow all the rules. There can be no discussion about that. What we're talking about right now are living room restaurants. You have a living room, you like to cook, you like to cook for people, you make costs for that, you want to recover those costs and you might want to make some money from it. If AirDnD organizes that, I don't have a problem with that. They have now said: we do not do this more than once a week and we have a limit in terms of turnover. We have said that we are going to keep a close eye on compliance with the legal requirements for food safety and hygiene. Then I have not solved everything at the moment, because it is a new development, but it is good to try to make agreements with those who take the lead in such a new development, which makes it possible for the users of the platform to comply with the rules. As soon as things happen that go a bit in the direction indicated by Mr Hijink with one example, I have no doubt at all: then all the rules that apply and which the NVWA has to monitor in the hospitality sector are simply applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u38	The Minister mentioned a number of excellent principles that the government uses when looking at the collaborative economy, such as stimulating innovation, the circular economy, and also the principle that it makes no sense to assume for all cities and all sectors that you can apply the same policy. I very much agree. Does this also mean, as far as you are concerned, that it is up to these cities, for example, to further promote innovation and circular economy, for example, by imposing requirements on products in the collaborative economy or setting up environmental zones?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u39	We have the same line as the previous cabinet, and we have it for some time now that it is up to the regions to give substance to regional economic development. I think that is a very successful line, looking at what is happening in Groningen, which is one of the fastest growing regions of the country, in Zwolle, in Brabant, which is gradually becoming the engine of the country, in Limburg and also in Arnhem and Nijmegen. Throughout the country, initiatives are being taken by regions, provinces and large municipalities, business is being developed and things are being stimulated. So I am very positive about that. They never do that alone. We're always involved. We have our people in the area. We set up activities with them. If there's any problems, we'll solve them together. So I am not going to say that they can do anything at some point, but I am saying that it fits in with cabinet policy to give them a lot of freedom, which they can make good use of. Of course, we are in favour of compliance with the national rules, but we are also in favour of encouraging and managing the desired developments with them. I very much respect the responsibility, initiative and quality of local, regional and provincial directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u40	The Minister and many others rightly mention the example of Amsterdam as a place where this is now well on the way, at least as far as holiday rentals are concerned. But that took a while. Amsterdam has already asked a few years ago for help from your colleagues Blok and Plasterk in setting up the reporting obligation for holiday rentals. You also say that other cities should be able to find out for themselves in the future. Do you therefore think that we can get across faster from the Empire with help, as a municipality that needs it, in investigating what rules are possible and how enforcement can best be organised? Do you want the Empire to react faster? Because that is the advice of the Rathenau: quickly respond to developments in the collaborative economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yes, but not only us but also Amsterdam is facing new developments. We don't have the answer to that right away. These developments are taking place and there is growth in them. They become more urgent and the benefits become clear, but also the disadvantages. At some point, you're ready to know what to do and make the decisions. So if Airbnb is on the rise in Amsterdam, Amsterdam can say "help us and make sure that the problems are solved," but then Amsterdam itself is still looking at what it can do best. Amsterdam is also gaining experience of its own. We have been willing to work on this with Amsterdam from the outset. We did. I don't think anything's going fast enough. Look, if there's a report coming up, I'd like us to come up with a reaction in two months. I'm not happy if it takes four or five months. If there is a development in Amsterdam, it may take two years for us to have the right answer together, but I like it better if we can do it within a year. So you will not find satisfaction on this point with me. If it can be done quickly in a responsible way, I'm happy if it can be done. I'll send as much as I can in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u42	As the Minister responded to the question on the tax side, both on tax payments and on VAT payments, I have a question about this. On the one hand, I see a potential advantage, because for a fee, sharing something or doing a job, existed long before the platforms. Many spokesmen have said that. The platforms make it possible in part to bring things more into the white circuit. So that's an opportunity, but there's also a risk. Let me give you a hypothetical example. Suppose VAT is increased on labour-intensive services such as hairdressers and repair work. Then the companies will suffer, because their activities will become more expensive. But if there are part-time and job platforms, this could be an additional incentive for the growth of these platforms. Would you like to discuss with your finance colleague whether we, as a government, should no longer analyse how these kinds of interactions are going to take place in the new reality of the collaborative economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Van der Lee cites one example of a grey area in which people are looking for the best regime for them. Things don't go exactly as we'd like. If a company develops activities that are not subject to VAT, there is improper competition with another company, which does pay VAT. These are very real problems that arise. I do not have the answer to all the problems that arise at the moment, especially because situations are very different. Look, if someone cuts someone else once a month and agrees to pay for it that he can use a leaf blower if there is a lot of leaves in his garden, then you and I are not going to charge VAT on that. But Mr Hijink just mentioned the example that someone can ask for a maximum of 180 people to eat six days a week. Well, then we have no doubt that VAT has to be paid. It is, of course, about the grey area, the transitional area. There must be as much clarity as possible. We have to work on this within the government. If Mr Van der Lee says that we should also talk to Finance about this, I will tell him that this is already happening. This must certainly continue, because it is absolutely necessary for an adequate public response to developments in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u44	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u45	The Rathenau Institute has come up with this report. They've made 20 recommendations. I am pleased to note that many of these recommendations are in line with what the cabinet is doing and support the government's policy. It would, of course, be bad if we did all kinds of things that would be contrary to what emerged from the Rathenau Institute's analysis. One of the points raised by the Rathenau Institute, which I would like to mention in particular, is to prevent platforms from becoming too dominant. I think this is a threat. This also concerns competition, so ACM should be involved. As a government, we will also have to look at how we can stimulate balance, dynamism, multiple participants and competition and make it natural. We also need to respond to dominant positions. These can be dominant positions of Dutch companies, but also of for example Alibaba from China every week an aircraft with 40,000 packages already goes to the Netherlands. It could also be the American companies; we all know them. This is an example of one of the valuable recommendations of the Rathenau Institute. I will respond to all these recommendations. This will then be discussed again with the Chamber, not in the form of a 30-member debate, but possibly in the form of a general consultation or a plenary debate. I would like to leave it to the Chamber to decide in what form that consultation should take. I have already said in relation to the dominant position that the moment a platform is successful, it attracts a lot of customers and it gets bigger and bigger, competition law is really on the table. We are preparing for that. We've already got it. We are also performing when necessary. Article 24 of the Competition Act prohibits undertakings from abusing their dominant position. We'll send in as government, too. When we issue permits, we do so in such a way that we promote competition instead of reducing it. This is an important task for the supervisory authorities. Part of the activity is the ACM and part is the responsibility of the European Commission. That will receive attention in the near future. It will be important to support developments in the right direction and to prevent something from being broken down by a limited number of parties. I am now looking at the points that the spokesmen have raised separately. Mr Hijink asked about government policy. I've already indicated that, but maybe I can put it in a few more points. Firstly, I think that what is now going on should be accepted as a fact. We must give ourselves the opportunity to absorb the positive effects of this. We shouldn't regulate too quickly. If we're gonna regulate, we're gonna have to do it by customization wherever possible. In other places, we must do so in such a way that it not only describes the existing position, pays attention to the existing interests and regulates the existing situation as best as possible. The rules must also be made in such a way that developments are possible and that future developments remain possible. It shouldn't be the case that we go after the facts every time with the rules. In general, I think the principle of subsidiarity is important: when it can be done locally, let us do it locally. We can help with that as a government. If we can't do that and we really have to do it as a government, then we won't get out of the way. Mr Hijink has asked whether, except as a sector, I see the sharing economy as something that is happening within sectors. That is absolutely the case. You have to look at it separately by sector, but there are also cutting themes. I have already mentioned competition, but we must also look at the position of people who actually act as employees. Social Affairs is also working on this, in addition to finance and economic affairs. This looks at the status of actual employees in the collaborative economy. The results will be shared with the Chamber. I also think it would be wise, as a cabinet, to present to the Chamber the various things that are going on so that it can discuss the whole matter with the cabinet. I will also encourage this to happen. Mr Ziegs indicated that the sharing economy is not as new as we sometimes think, but that it used to be for very practical reasons. Mr Amhaouch also said that this was already happening. Of course it is. The example Mr Ziengs mentioned of the cooperatives was a very good example. He will also agree with me that, partly as a result of the possibility we now have with the Internet, the world has become much larger for consumers. People don't look forward to making small things come from China. That's something we couldn't imagine back in the day. Now it is, so the world has changed. This means that the sharing economy has also changed, but it is not entirely new, because it used to occur in a certain form. Mr Ziengs sees the solution mainly in reducing the regulatory burden on traditional companies. I am responsible for reducing the regulatory burden and I have done so with conviction. During this cabinet period, too, the regulatory burden has been reduced by the planned amount of EUR 2.5 billion. It is also absolutely necessary to do so, but rules as such are positive. Rules are also requested by entrepreneurs. Rules provide certainty, within which you can function as an entrepreneur. The point is, you don't have any unnecessary rules anymore. You must avoid maintaining rules that are outdated, or regulating things that do not actually need to be regulated, or stopping desired developments by rules when no one has any interest in doing so. So I agree with Mr Ziengs that the development of the collaborative economy and its impact on business are an additional incentive to take a critical look at the rules. This may also mean that the new cabinet will continue the line of the current cabinet and the previous cabinet on this point. Mr. Amhaouch pointed out the difference you see. First you shared something with people you knew and traded things out, but right now you can also share it more widely. Then it's not just that you can recover some of your costs, but that you can also make money with them. Then you're gonna go in, too. Mr Amhaouch says that you should give these developments ample space, but that the negative effects should be focused. I agree with him on that point. I do not agree with him when he said, at least if I understood him correctly, that payment should not really be an element of the collaborative economy. I think that can be a very reasonable part of the collaborative economy. In fact, I think it is already the most important part of the collaborative economy at the moment. However, the collaborative economy is driven by the commercial interest of the parties and the interest of consumers in getting the products they want quickly and in making a good wide choice of products. So that commercial's already in there, and you can't get it out of there. Mr Amhaouch also spoke about the innovative initiatives that exist, pointing out that the public interests are increasingly reflected in these initiatives. Of course it is. When new things are invented, we have to keep looking at the effect on people's privacy and security. Does it have an effect on public order? Is food safety at stake? There is therefore a tension between innovation and public interests. This is also something that really belongs to us as a government, to respond in an appropriate way to such a new development. So that is what we are doing, according to the lines I have just outlined. The negative elements of the collaborative economy have been addressed by both Mr Amhaouch and myself. Mr Amhaouch mentioned the disadvantages of Airbnb, which we all saw most strongly in Amsterdam. We are convinced, and I am referring first of all to the municipal government, but also to us as the Empire, that a real answer can be found to this, so that people can enjoy all the beautiful things Amsterdam has to offer, but in such a way that it does not create any nuisance and that people who want to earn something from it in a reasonable way will also have the opportunity to do so. Mr Van der Lee was right to say that the government should respond, but he also wondered whether agreements and a Right to Challenge could help to safeguard public interests. I think that is absolutely the case. Self-regulation is very good, and it has been proven over the years in many sectors. In almost all sectors in the Netherlands, we see that a sector is looking at what can be done, for example whether a label can be established, whether agreements can be made and whether a covenant can be concluded with the government. It's very good that that happens. That must remain the case, and it must be done here. We need to see if we can support this as well. A very nice example of car sharing is the green deal. In car sharing you can see really positive effects. When it comes to car sharing, the positive effects are actually the strongest. From what we have had investigated, it appears that if the car parts are done properly, which may result in 30% fewer cars being needed and 10% less CO being emitted. I think we all have an interest in that. You have more capacity on the roads. Those are things that we have a great interest in. This means that we, also from the government, like to make agreements with those who take initiatives on this issue. We also made a green deal with companies. It is also good to make optimal use of this and, if necessary, to extend it further to include those who wish to participate in it. Mr Van der Lee spoke about the rebound effect. He said you'd have to buy less things yourself. This saves you money and then you can do polluting things with it. You can also do good things with it: for example, you can save it or pay off your mortgage or study it. So it has an effect, but I think that making good use of the potential of the collaborative economy, with the same product being widely used and widely used, is ultimately positive. I think that you realize savings, that you're going more towards a circular economy, that there's less waste, and I already mentioned that you're doing less CO emissions and more capacity on the roads. So I would like to approach it in a positive way. I do not get the impression from Mr Van der Lee that he sees that differently. Then there is the social aspect of the collaborative economy. Mr Van der Lee wondered whether there was sufficient attention to this issue. Maybe. I do not know if it is enough, I do know that it is very important and that the collaborative economy can certainly also contribute to social cohesion in a neighbourhood. If you share tools, you have contacts with each other. That's always good for cohesion in a neighborhood. I call it home pick-up.nl., where people who need something can pick up via such a platform somewhere in their own neighborhood. That's a good thing, too. I call people who make a car available and do things that way with someone from the neighborhood. I think all that can be supportive of what happens in a neighborhood. It is also important for the government to encourage such developments. After all, the public sector is in the public interest. This will also be done at local level in particular. Mr Van der Lee also asked how the government can take care of it. He even said: how the minister can ensure that there is enough room for the smaller, more social players in the collaborative economy. I'm not sure the government should be doing that right now. I'm not much for social enterprise either. An entrepreneur who adheres to the rules and who provides a product or service that is needed in society in a neat way, I find by definition already a social entrepreneur. And I don't think that entrepreneur gets any more social when he does it in a foundation form. However, I understand what is meant here. I think there is a risk that the large parties will become dominant in such a way that the smaller players will be pushed away. If they consciously work on it and also abuse their power, they act in violation of the law and will therefore be acted upon by the ACM. I think it would be wise, for the government, but also for the local authorities, to follow these developments in their own environment and to use the possibilities of directing them. Mr Van Dijk asked how I see the role of the government. I've gone into that. He called attention to competition. I've already gone into that. He wants an active government on this point. I think that is absolutely necessary. In such an important development, with so many positive and negative aspects, an active government is also necessary. That government is there at the moment and it feels supported by the analysis made in the Rathenau report. Mr Van Dijk also wondered how we look at the regulation on this point. I have already said something about this; perhaps I can say a little more about it. I have already indicated that regulation has it in mind that you always see a solution to something you have experienced as a problem to be solved. But actually regulation must be such that you identify an interest to be protected and set rules for it, and that you then allow desired developments to develop within those rules. This also makes the rules more forward-looking and future-proof. I'm very convinced that's what's going to happen. We have therefore started the programme of future-proof legislation, both looking at how we can set up new legislation in that direction, and also how we can adapt existing legislation, in so far as it has the opposite effect at the moment. That is absolutely true. You also have to ensure that regulation is technologically neutral, because we can say that these platforms are going to happen this way and that is what we assume, but then you will see that another technique has been devised and used in three years' time. Then you won't get much further with that attitude. Regulation must therefore be as technically neutral as possible. It is very good to portray the interests to be protected and the goals. What do you want to achieve in the end? You also need some kind of target regulation. These are all developments that are taking place in the area of government legislation. There is also a great challenge for our lawyers, who are also experiencing a new period with a different way of legislation and undoubtedly facing a challenge in it. Mr Paternotte spoke about the 50-plussers. To me, they're young people, but okay. We have now established that people aged 65 and over, let me start with, use platforms less than younger people. But it is true that half of all 65-plussers are already using platforms and that is growing fast. I do not think they will lead the way, because they have grown up and are intertwined with another situation. It is always the case that young people take the lead and renew things, and others then join in with these developments. But if you see how things are going in the Netherlands with the use of digital products, their share is exceptionally high. There are only a few countries in the world that are comparable in this respect. That is also because we have the perfect infrastructure for that. In my own area I live right next to the German border on the Dutch side you have almost no bank offices anymore. If you're on the German side, you'll see bank offices everywhere. In the Netherlands everything is done via the Internet and in Germany it is not done yet. For example, there are more examples showing that the digital possibilities are being widely exploited in the Netherlands. The elderly are also increasingly doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr Paternotte has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u47	The Minister is quite right that 50-plussers are young people like himself, but I did not specifically refer to the role of older people, 65-plussers or 50-plussers as consumers. That is indeed going pretty well, anyway on the internet. On Facebook, by far, most 65-plussers are active. I was referring specifically to the people in the pre-pension phase who would like to work occasionally, but do not want to be stuck with a contract with six weeks of vacation a year. In America, you can see that that group uses very much of those apps to offer services, whether it is as a lawyer who gives temporary advice or as a driver or animal nanny. A recent report by JPMorgan Chase showed this and the question is whether this also offers opportunities for 65-plussers or 50-plussers here in the Netherlands. Will the Minister include that in the cabinet response to the Rathenau report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u48	I'd be happy to. I think Mr Paternotte is making an important point. I would like to take note of that report and to include it in the response we give to the points raised by the Rathenau report. Thank you for that suggestion, Mr President, to Mr Paternotte. Mr Paternotte spoke of Europe. I have already indicated that Europe also has an important role to play in ensuring that competition is maintained. There are, of course, guidelines coming from Europe, because these platforms do not attract very much from the borders. It's really spectacular to see how the store stock in the Netherlands is under pressure not only because there are redundancies to online companies, to web stores in the Netherlands, but also because more and more small things are delivered daily from abroad, from which classic stores are once again exposed to competition. If that becomes an increasingly important party in the market, then you have to agree very well on the rules and the attitude of the government towards those platforms. You can do that from the Netherlands, but it is much more powerful if you do that from Europe. I think it is very sensible for Europe to develop guidelines for this too and to ensure that there is unity of policy and approach in Europe in the important areas as well. In this respect, the cabinet is keen not only to cooperate with local authorities such as Amsterdam, but also to cooperate with Europe to provide the right response together to a development that we see as positive, which has a lot to offer people, which also has something to offer the economy and which has bottlenecks and disadvantages that can be managed and solved. We would like to respond positively and actively to this development. This is evident from the reaction we give to the Rathenau Institute report. On the basis of the reaction, a further exchange of views may take place in the Chamber, in which we, as legislators, can also determine our position for the future on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u49	I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term reply. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Hijink van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been said by all parties and also by the Minister that there is a great need to promote all the positive effects of the collaborative economy, but that at present there is still too little visibility and too little information to properly assess the negative aspects. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sharing economic platforms put pressure on public values through unmaintained commercial exploitation;]] [[whereas the sharing economy has great potential but should not be at the expense of public interests;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the legal status of sharing economic platforms and identify the commercial sharing economic platforms that put pressure on public values, the means of enforcement currently lacking and how these gaps can be filled, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33009-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. I hesitated for a moment because the Minister spoke positive words. But he's deeply decommissioned, as we discussed yesterday. We still have a long way to go in this area, so I thought it appropriate to read the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the collaborative economy offers many new opportunities but also requires new policies because it affects some public interests;]] [[whereas the Rathenau Institute has a toolbox full of useful policy instruments, but does not explicitly mention the instrument of the Covenant;]] [[Whereas a platform in the collaborative economy that successfully concludes a covenant on its socially responsible behaviour with relevant stakeholders may need to be less tightly regulated;]] [[calls on the Government to consider in the further development of its policy on the sharing economy whether the use of covenants can make a valuable contribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33009-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. We have already noted that this goes beyond several committees. It's about economic affairs. I am also pleased to see a response from the Minister on the sharing economy and its impact on the economy. It also concerns, as the Minister said, Social Affairs. If we are going to have this debate again, I think that this is a task for us as a Chamber and that we want to have a broad debate on all aspects, including social issues and labour law issues. I would point out to Mr Ziengs that we have a round table on platform economy and its labour law aspects, for which EZ has also been invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have any motions, but I have two more questions. We thought that all the principles set out by the Minister were excellent. There was also: leave locally what can be locally. Those are governments, such as Amsterdam, which indeed manage to fight against Airbnb. That is the SP alderman, of course supported by his colleagues from D66 and the VVD in the college. But abroad you often see that things are going wrong. I refer to Berlin and Barcelona, which either prohibit or are less able to compete against these large American platforms. My question is, therefore, whether this principle now also means that if municipalities need additional legal opportunities, the government that might want to provide them. The Minister also said that new income models also mean that some of the rules we have devised are no longer necessary for the old economy. From the taxi industry, for example, the business license for the taxi is often mentioned. Does the Minister consider it an idea to ask the ATR to consider which rules can be deleted as a result of the emergence of new earning models?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you. Then we arrived at the end of the second term of office. The Minister indicated that he wished for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u56	I give the floor to the Minister in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm a little reluctant to discourage motions. This is probably the last debate I have here in the Chamber, and that is a special debate for me. I have been able to discourage and even carry out motions so many times that it would be nice if I could do something else at the end. But the first motion, Mr Hijink's, does make it difficult for me. He asks me to clarify the legal status of sharing economic platforms and to identify how to respond to public values that are under pressure. Then what you see is that we should all be at the centre of it. Then we should put all these sharing platforms on a pile and come to a single approach, and make policies for that. I believe, on the contrary, that the starting point should be to take everything off as much as possible by sector and local level and to provide as much space as possible. Regulations we have need to make future-proof, and new regulations need to be future-proof. So I tend to say that we can't do this. On the other hand, we are responding to the recommendations of the Rathenau Institute. Mr Hijink pointed out that the legal aspects needed to be taken into account, and that it was necessary to consider what changes might need to be made to them. I don't want to keep that away either. So if Mr Hijink says in his motion: pay attention to this issue in the response you are going to give to the Rathenau Institute report, then I would like to leave it to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, however, it has to be maintained that we really have to try to solve it with customisation as much local and sectoral as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u58	Yeah, that's right. On the contrary, it is not my intention to compare all the different platforms we have. The Rathenau Institute calls for a review of legal status. What interests are at stake? They also say: look at this by platform and sector. We should not say: this is the collaborative economy, we have one approach and it has to look after everything. Of course, that will never work; I think that is the crux of the whole debate. However, this means that in one case you will say that it is commercial and in the other case that it is not commercial. This is more of a co-operative and that is more of an e.g. or I don't know. The platforms have, of course, taken different forms. I would very much like to see in some sort of overview what we actually have. How could we classify it? What are the different ways to deal with it now? What approach do you need per platform?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Hijink is helping. He says this is in line with one of the recommendations of the Rathenau Institute. In responding to the recommendation referred to by Mr Hijink, I will also address his concerns as he has now put it. So I'm going to involve this in the elaboration. If that is the intention he has, then I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I come to the second motion, on part No. 45 by Mr Van der Lee. It also proposes to the Chamber to ask the Cabinet to consider whether the use of voluntary agreements can make a valuable contribution in the further development of its policy on the sharing economy. Secondly, Mr Van der Lee makes it 'to ask the government'. He can write that down, of course. I've already mentioned this. This also fits in with the design of tailor-made agreements with sectors. It is also appropriate to encourage sectors to organise the sharing economy in such a way as to make it easy for users to remain within the rules. So this is a motion in which I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Mr Van Dijk said that he wanted the next debate on this subject to be wide-ranging. I take it that this is something that he will take care of here in the Chamber himself, especially when we talk about the way in which the next debate will be held and who will be invited. I believe that there is also a need in the cabinet to be able to discuss this with the Chamber widely. Mr Paternotte pointed out that if we make developments possible or leave room for local authorities and give them the opportunity to solve their own problems in a practical way, together with us, it may also show that this has consequences for regulation. That's true. I think it is also conceivable, as he says, that this local approach and cooperation will provide incentives for the adaptation of the rules at a national level. So that's what I'm sharing with him. He asked if we could ask the ATR to see which lines could be deleted. The ATR has a fixed task in terms of the pressure that is expected to bring about new regulation. We have to spend 80% of our time on this. In addition, they can spend 20% of their time on a number of other things. I think it would be useful if I spoke to the ATR about developing the collaborative economy in order to look with them at the impact this has on their work and how they can fit it in with their planning. I think that is the intention of Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr Paternotte on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u61	The Minister is quite right that that would indeed be the intention. Can the Minister tell the Chamber what the outcome of these talks is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u62	Sure. It seems to me that I have to do the same for the budget, so that Mr Paternotte can take it into account if he so wishes. I hope for him that he will do the treatment of the EZ budget, because that is always very nice work to do. Mr President, this may have been my last debate with the Chamber. I may have had thousands in a period of 23 years. I am very pleased to be able to conclude this with you, because I have seen you in other roles, both in Rotterdam and in the Ministry of Finance, now in the House of Representatives and who knows what the future will bring. I wish you personally and also the spokesmen who took part in the debate today the very best. Thank you for your pleasant cooperation for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you. We also thank you on behalf of the Chamber for your pleasant cooperation and coming to the Chamber today. That concludes the debate on the Honest Parts report of the Rathenau Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-9.u64	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
