ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators. It is always very special to be a Member of Parliament in box K. I would also like to welcome their supporters. Today the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport is also present. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this own-initiative proposal. Last Tuesday the first term of office was discussed. Today we are discussing the first-term answer and the second-term answer. There can be strong discussions, but today is still a very long day. I ask those who wish to intervene to do so succinctly. I'm not gonna limit it, but I'm gonna rely on some self-limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Three parties, right through the coalition and the opposition, have joined forces for a bill with an important charge of principle. In recent years, these parties have found each other in less market forces and more cooperation, although one party wants to go a little further than the other. The fact that we find each other here again is anything but strange or unexpected. The idea that public money spent on care is actually spent on good and accessible care is widely shared, in society, with health insurers, with the Minister and with the vast majority of this Chamber. This law aims to lay down, consolidate, which has been common practice for almost eleven years: no profit distribution by health insurers, nothing more and nothing less. We thank the parties for their praises, questions and comments. Following on from my reply, I will discuss the origins of the proposal and its necessity. Mrs Bruins Slot will talk about the legal consequences and the opinion of the Council of State. And Mrs Leijten will respond to the financial consequences for health insurers. I shall begin with the role of health insurers in this system and the need to maintain quality and solidarity. Upon the entry into force of this system, private health insurance companies were created with a public task: to use all of our premium money and to buy the best care for a fair price. They became the bogeyman, as they like to say. The role of bogeyman is necessary: someone must be an referee and ensure that our premium money is well spent. But that needs to be legitized. It is precisely this legitimacy that is lacking now. If you are a private company that carries out a public task, that does not mean that as a private company you can simply go your own way, because you are private. No, just then you have to walk a step faster to make sure you get, deserve and maintain legitimacy. Healthcare insurers say they are socially aware and responsible, but do they behave accordingly? Do they behave as cooperatives should? We don't think so. There does not seem to be meaningful participation, control and cooperation with and for their insured persons. The Health and Society Council also refers to this in its report The voice of insured persons. The Advisory Council says that the legitimacy of health insurers needs to be strengthened. A licence to operate doesn't just happen to you. You have to work on that, together with your insured people, with the patients and also with the healthcare provider. You have to do that every day, just as a private enterprise with a very important public task with all of us premium money. The need to strengthen legitimacy is also reflected in a whole series of practical examples. In the meantime, we all know them: sign at the cross, unclear policy conditions, almost no purchase on quality, no cooperation with patients in the procurement, no control of insured persons Mrs Dik-Faber also pointed out here that patients who have little participation in the procurement to ensure that they get the care that suits them and too little focus on, for example, health benefits. We can go on like this for a while. And no, it is not that everyone in the Netherlands always wants to receive the maximum care or always want to provide maximum care. People want to feel like they're being taken seriously, that the health insurance company is serving them and taking part in the question of which care suits someone and how you can organize it. This requires an open attitude and meaningful information on objective and subjective quality. This one's not in order either. That is not an opinion, because this is repeatedly confirmed by the healthcare supervisor, the Dutch Healthcare Authority. All of this, the things that are not going well have improved under the pressure of the Chamber. Little steps have been taken. The Minister has done this on behalf of the Chamber, for which we are grateful, but we are certainly not there yet. The permanent prohibition of profit distribution thus fits in with the list of further regulation. More action is needed to ensure that health insurers are also consciously committed to our contribution money. They have to do that, despite the fact that they're a private company, because that doesn't give them the right to use our premium money to do their own thing. Does cashing out profits contribute to trust? Does that contribute to legitimacy? Does that contribute to people feeling that a health insurance company is working with them to use that money as well as possible for quality, so that people get the care that suits them and the premium doesn't shoot through the ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear Mrs Bouwmeester say all kinds of things about matters that could be better done by insurers than now, for example more participation by insured persons. These are all things that this bill is absolutely not about. For that we will get another bill, because this bill is not about that. She's also talking about being socially responsible. In the current situation and under current legislation, health insurers alone should not pay out their former health insurance reserves. All their other reserves, as far as the Dutch Bank allows, they can just pay out. You can do that right now. In the 11 years that the scheme has been in existence, what insurance companies have ever paid benefits from these additional funds, which they are allowed to pay out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think this is serious. I think this is serious. Several parties and renowned advisory councils say: health insurers have a legitimacy problem. We name that and say: make sure that you get that connection with your insured people, with the people who care about it, with the people who need care and with the people who care. Make sure you put that quality in order with them and spend that premium money sharply. That is a reason for this law. Why? The base isn't in order. They do not behave like the socially responsible companies we had in mind. What do you do? Then you have to make sure they do. You should not say: we are going to make profit distribution possible. That is a contradiction, and that is why it was a reason for us to submit this law. We do not yet have the confidence that it will suddenly come to fruition when the focus is on profit-giving and thus on achieving return. I hear Mr Rutte say that is not what this law is about. It is shocking that Mr Rutte does not recognise that there seems to be a major problem of legitimacy among health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	Rarely anyone so incredibly didn't hear an answer to my question! If you make laws, you should at least answer the questions that are very fundamental. This question is fundamental, because it affects legitimacy. In the past, insurers have a dowry of about EUR 2.5 billion and currently a reserve of EUR 11 billion. Mrs Bouwmeester says that we have to be careful that they do things that are not allowed to do and that they are just going to make a profit. But they have had the opportunity to pay out those profits for 11 years, as far as they are above the 2.5 billion, because that is the current law! In view of the legitimacy and all the assumptions made by Mrs Bouwmeester, it is certainly only normal to ask which insurers have paid benefits in the last few years from that part that they had been allowed to pay. So what kind of health care provider lacked that social awareness? What insurance companies? That's a simple question. They could do it, but I don't think they did it, unless Mrs Bouwmeester surprises me now with her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	I hear a lot of arguments. I hear I'm talking about assumptions. Everything we have said can be read back in reports from the NZa. I would like Mr Rutte to acknowledge that it is not just assumptions but facts. In addition, he has all these statements, but I am not allowed to say anything about them. I'm only allowed to answer his question about profit distributions. Well, the other reserves of health insurance companies are about 3.5 billion. We would have liked the insurers to have spent this money on better care, innovation and lower premiums. Some of them have done the same. But what we do not want is for this care money to be paid to shareholders. That is the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Rutte is being addressed, so he may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally. I understand the initiators don't want that. I think that's what very few people want. In the context of the social position of insurers, the question is whether they have done it in recent years when they could. It has been possible for 11 years as far as reserves go beyond the restricted reserves of the sickness fund time. Did they do that? That's the question. Did they do one of those benefits when they were allowed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	No. There is now a ban on the distribution of profits, and we would like to continue to do so. We'd like to keep it that way. Why do we want to do that? Because the insurers are already not doing to a sufficient extent what we want them to do. That's gotta be better. We're not saying they have to pay out the profits. I'll let you do that later. The ban ends. Perhaps Mr Rutte does not realize it, but there is a ban and this proposal is aimed at keeping this ban. The profits are not distributed and we would like to keep them that way so that public money can be spent on care. I will continue with my speech. In addition to the answer to Mr Rutte's question, I would like to explain why the distribution of profits contributes to mistrust rather than confidence. Trust in care is necessary to deliver the best with each other. With the distribution of profits, the financial benefit shifts from partly socially invested funds to an external party. The risk is created that profit becomes an end in itself, so that no steps are taken to buy in the best care and invest in prevention and innovation. Instead, it saves money to make a profit. The attention of the health insurance company shifts from quality to increasing returns for shareholders. This is contrary to one of the pillars of the system. Healthcare insurers must compete with each other. If shareholders send them, we find it plausible that the health insurance companies are not going to pay very much attention to quality and cooperation. I'm going to answer the questions. Ms Keijzer cited the Health Care report of the CDA's scientific institute. She asked whether the ban on the distribution of profits is sufficient to make health insurers a social enterprise or whether more needs to be done. Mrs Keijzer is absolutely right in suggesting that more is needed to make a health insurance company a social enterprise. This concerns, in particular, increasing the control of member councils, strengthening the influence of patients and patient organisations on procurement policies and cooperation in the region. Mrs Dik-Faber has repeatedly stressed the importance of the participation of the members of the health insurance company. You can only buy good care and ensure that the region gets the care that suits it, if you talk to people. You should not tell us afterwards what is happening, but ask in advance what is needed and how you can facilitate and organise cooperation. Then you also know how to spend your care money well. You have to listen to the wishes, to the care question and answer them as well. I'm afraid this isn't going to happen on its own. Insurance should have a stronger voice with their health insurance provider. You can say that insured people can change afterwards if they have been dissatisfied for a year, but we choose to settle it properly in advance. Not everyone can change easily. Not everyone has that knowledge, skill and capacity. Moreover, the NZa indicates that it is so opaque that people often don't even know the difference between the policies. We have been waiting a long time for legislation from the Ministry to strengthen the position of the members' councils of the health insurance company. That law isn't ready yet. There is potentially the possibility to pay out profits, while the control of the people for whom the health insurance company is there is not yet in order. We believe that there should first be fair and clear policy conditions. First, care must be made for people. We must first ensure better cooperation in the region. Well, I can fill out the whole list one more time. That should be in order. That's what the focus and attention should be on. There are already commitments under the Key Health Action Plan and the Code of Conduct Good health insurance and also on good practice when it comes to contracting. However, this does not mean that health insurers are already fulfilling their role well. They already had all the codes, but the Chamber had to ensure that the NZa did not comply with their own agreements. Fortunately, the NZa does this with results, because on this basis it has been able to intervene a few times because it was not properly contracted. It is all signs that things are not going well yet and that health insurers should focus all attention, energy and focus on their core task and not be distracted by potential interests of shareholders. Mrs Voortman, Mrs Wolbert and Mr Van Gerven have asked questions about the contacts we have had with health insurers. That's a pretty amazing story. The health insurance companies pretend that this bill came out of the top hat, as if they didn't know anything about it, as if we put it together for a little after-afternoon, but the opposite is true. Two years ago, an amendment was adopted by Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Gerven, with which the vast majority of the House said: we are not going to do that, we are not going to do that. Very often there have been different expressions in the media from different people, not just from the proposers, about how undesirable it is and why it is undesirable. We actively informed Zorgverzekerings Nederland during the presentation. All three proposers have been in frequent contact with different health insurers. What's that one story we've been hearing? Boy, unnecessary legislation, we don't want to do it anyway; we're not gonna do it anyway, so it's not necessary at all. Then it is very strange that we hear afterwards that parties were informed one by one by the health insurance companies. A part of the input of Achmea we were able to read back in the input of the VVD, but that was also the first time that we as proposers were able to see that. Then, as proposers, we really had to urge health insurers: give the full information to the entire Chambers Committee. They then sent it to a number of spokesmen. We said then: send it to the committee so that everyone has access to it. We know that the lobbyists, the public-affairs people of the health insurance companies are always at our procedural meetings and that they have had all the discussions with them. If all the doom scenarios about this proposal are really true, why do they inform us so late with inadequate information and do we get that information in a three-stage rocket? We find that special. I must say that, at the request of the authors, that information is there. Mrs Leijten also went after it yesterday, so we received a letter from Achmea with additional information. But it takes two to tango.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	Is it not customary in the context of due diligence in legislation that a law that is ready first gets a kind of social consultation? Mrs Bouwmeester always thinks that social consultation is very important, because then parties can make their contribution. That will be taken into account and then the whole story goes to the Council of State. Mrs. Pia Dijkstra is again working on a law on completed life. He goes into a social consultation first. That's not as weird when it comes to certain parties. That hasn't happened here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's what happened. Mrs Bruins Slot will go into more detail on how we have all done exactly that. She has a very sharp argument about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's special, because we didn't see any of that. It wasn't anywhere with the pieces either, so that's special. Apart from that, Mrs Bouwmeester does all the insinuations that insurers do very strange things. I've been asking a lot of questions about all those things that are coming up right now, questions about the asset position of insurers, about things that show that there wasn't just public money in insurers. They were all focused questions that, if the initiators wanted to take the trouble to answer them, could have been answered. What does Mrs Bouwmeester think about Members asking relevant questions in this house that matter, that they then first get the answer "that question does not matter" and that then the initiators do not bother to find the right answer and answer wrongly? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'd almost say you're doing it again, Mr Rutte. Mr Rutte first made a whole speech with a considerable number of allegations in the direction of the proposers. Then he closes with a question. Well, I can say very briefly: we have had a whole consultation, we have listened to reactions and we have changed the law. And again, Mrs Bruins Slot is about to go into it extensively. We have the impression that Mr Rutte does not agree with this law and that is allowed. But will we continue to show respect for each other? I would appreciate it if Mr Rutte would admit that we have indeed listened and that we have answered questions. We're here now, too. I have indicated that I am merely doing the introduction and dealing with the reason for this law. In a moment Mrs Bruins Slot will discuss, among other things, legal advice and the Council of State. Mrs Leijten answers all financial questions. The fact that Mr Rutte is now saying that his questions have not been answered is a pity and a little inappropriate. Mr Rutte's questions are being answered and we have taken a serious look at them. So I would also like that to be recognised and not pretended not to listen to anyone at all. That's just factually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	No, Mr President, this is an essential issue. It's really crucial. Because Mrs Bouwmeester tells us here that insurers behave unsocially. However, this is partly due to the fact that questions were simply not answered. In the first round in writing, I asked questions about the capital position of insurers. Whether you like it or not, the answer from the initiators was: it doesn't matter. Then I asked again and then the answer came: that's just premium money and money raised by the health insurance fund, point. Only after it was found to be incorrect will there be answers. Then you can't tell me I'm telling you something weird? Those are the facts. So it doesn't fit to blame insurance companies for doing weird things. It's been asked. There's just no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	I say again that both legal and financial questions will be answered in a moment. Those answers just come. By the way, we have had to push and attract health insurers to get that information. Perhaps Mr Rutte got a very nice guest lecture from them, because he could take over the input of Achmea in his contribution and write about it to us, the authors, but we had not received that information from Achmea. If we had received it earlier, we would have been able to find it on the basis of that information. Anyway, I'm already going into the content, but I'm really gonna leave that to Mrs Bruins Slot. I also hear Mr Rutte say once again that we are talking nonsense about health insurers who do not fulfil the task they want. Well, there's a whole stack of reports from the NZa that show that people aren't listening, that quality isn't being bought in and that the contracting process isn't in order. So that's just not going well yet. People have a lot of criticism of health insurers. We can do this and we have to do this better. Little steps have been taken. Further regulation has been introduced. This has been done under pressure from the Chamber, but the Minister has taken a whole series of measures. The NZa is watching this and real results have been achieved. So I also have compliments for the NZa. But we can all conclude that things aren't going well yet. Then you can do two things. Then you can say: especially choose to allow profit distribution, because if health insurance companies are allowed to pay profits, the focus is really on quality. Or you say: we're not going to do that, because the focus should be on quality, so we're going to go a step further in regulation. There will then be one rule on this whole list, namely the prohibition of distribution of profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	Good. Mrs Bouwmeester continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	As I said, health insurance companies have always said to us that this is actually an unnecessary law. But at the same time they tell us: to raise capital, we do need the opportunity to pay out profits. And we hear about all kinds of doom scenarios when profit distributions are not allowed. So sickness insurance companies do want to make a profit. If that's the case, you might wonder why they don't just say that. Why don't they tell us why they want to and they don't back that up? Why aren't they open about that, towards the proposers and towards society? Then we can have another debate, a fair debate. In it you could see what the options are. By the way, it is striking that Achmea and a.s.r., the health insurance companies that would really have an interest in profit distribution, have such great objections. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands, the representative of these two health insurance companies, joins in. But we have never received letters or objections from the other insurers. We have been told in personal contacts that we do not want to make any profit at all. So it's a miraculous whole. Mrs Wolbert noted the following in her contribution. Or the bill is unnecessary and unnecessary. If so, we can accept it without objection as extra security and as a signal. So either it's unnecessary and nothing happens at all, but then we don't understand the criticism. Or, Mrs Wolbert says, there is criticism, but then the health insurance companies want to make a profit. And that is exactly the essence of this bill: we do not want profit distribution. Quality and cooperation need to be focussed. We agree with Mrs Voortman, who said that it gives her an uncomfortable feeling that these health insurance companies are turning so strongly against the bill, while it is simply consolidating the existing situation. Indeed, the letters received do not contribute to the image of health insurers who attach importance to positive social appreciation. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands points out that it is primarily the health insurance companies that have never paid a profit, and therefore does not think that the proposal is necessary either. If you say it's necessary, you undermine the trust in the health insurance companies. Then you do, freely translated, to moodry, while in other letters it says that they want to. In short, it is a very woolly and unclear whole and that is what it remains. The proposers are amazed at the tone in the letters of health insurance companies, which make it appear as if continuing the current situation would be a bomb under the system. They regret the fact that health insurance companies are placing themselves above all as private companies, rather than giving people the confidence that premium money stays in care, that they invest more in quality, cooperation and control. Then they can always fulfil the boogeyman role, because it is still necessary, but we would prefer them to become some sort of master, with legitimacy, who says: we do, we do not do, these are the rules and I explain why, not because we think so or because my shareholders think it is possible, but because we come together for good care. My colleague Bruins Slot will continue to address the legal aspects of this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	However, Mr Rutte still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	On a basic point, which keeps coming back and coming back today: premium money must go to care. I think we'll be able to agree on that very soon. Part of it goes to the insurance company's implementation costs, the rest goes to care as much as possible. So an insurer is not allowed to pay profits and not to hand out money to shareholders. But an insurer may, as the initiators themselves have said, take out loans. It's okay, if it's necessary. If a loan is repaid, what kind of money is that? That's bank money, which apparently is good. But the interest on that, what kind of money is that? No premium money, no care money, but different kinds of money. I'm very curious what kind of money interest is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	That's a very fair question. Mrs Leijten will take that up. My hands are tickling to say something about this, but we've made a proper division of labour. There's a difference between someone who controls money and someone who doesn't. Once again, Mrs Leijten will go into this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	That's what I'm waiting for; that's going to be an interesting exercise. However, if I understand Mrs Bouwmeester correctly, she believes, in principle, that giving care money to banks is better than paying care money back, for example to a pension fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	This is kind of amazing. Mr Rutte makes a statement, my answer is that Mrs Leijten will go into it and then he concludes that I find something, while my only answer is that Mrs Leijten will go into it. We, like the cabinet, have agreed this in the division. But Mr Rutte's justified question is answered seriously. We ourselves believe that we have a very good answer to that, so that will come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I refer to the opinion of the Council of State, the nature of the amendment of the law, the question of ownership and any new entrants. Mrs Leijten will deal with the financial aspects of the provision of capital, interest payments and so on. Mr Rutte asked the initiators about the weighting of the opinion of the Council of State. How did we do that? First of all, the nature of the Council of State's opinion on a government proposal is different from the nature of an initiative proposal. This is reflected in the fact that the Council of State does not issue an official operative part, as is customary with government proposals. But, of course, it is important to consider an opinion from the Council of State; that is what we have done. Firstly, following the comments of the Council of State, we have submitted a letter of amendment. As a result, supplementary insurance is no longer covered by this bill. Secondly, we have used the comments of the Council of State to strengthen the justification for this bill. Thirdly, it is an opinion of the Council of State, as I say to Mr Rutte. The nature of the opinion is that you may differ on the further elaboration of a legislative proposal. I do not need to remind Mr Rutte that during the past period this cabinet has regularly ignored important opinions from the Council of State. Mr Rutte asked whether this bill had officially been consulted. It's true that this didn't happen officially. An initiative proposal is subject to requirements other than those of a government bill. The rules on advice on government legislative proposals do not apply to initiative proposals. But of course we have had a lot of contact with each other, as Mrs Bouwmeester has just explained in detail. We have talked to everyone in connection with Mrs Leijten's amendment. This bill concerns the consolidation of the current situation. It is important that this bill enters into force on 1 January 2018. Mrs Keijzer asked why this change is not unwise. Our health insurance system is based on regulated market functioning. The regulated nature means that the health insurance has various public-law conditions. The public legal framework conditions include the acceptance obligation, the prohibition of risk selection and the obligation for everyone in the Netherlands to be insured. The legislative proposal is an extension of those public-law framework conditions and sets out the current situation of no profit distribution. I come to the question of ownership. The VVD and D66 have asked several questions on this subject, which have also been guided by Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. Is there a legitimate interference in property law? It has also been asked whether any legal proceedings relating to the award of damages can be expected. I will explain carefully the regulation of property rights, and I will indicate what consideration we have made. Article 1 of the First Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms gives substance to this. I assume that not all spokesmen know the article by heart, so I will quote it. It reads as follows: "Every natural or legal person has the right to the undisturbed enjoyment of his property. No one will be deprived of their property except in the public interest and under the conditions laid down in the law and in the general principles of international law. However, the foregoing provisions do not affect in any way the right of a State to apply those laws which it considers necessary to regulate the use of ownership in accordance with the general interest or to ensure the payment of taxes or other charges or fines." The European Court of Human Rights shall examine whether Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR has been complied with on the basis of the following three questions. Is there property within the meaning of Article 1 of the First Protocol? If there is ownership, is there interference in ownership? If so, is that interference justified? At the heart of the questions raised by the various political groups in the first term is the question of whether this bill constitutes a legitimate interference in the right of ownership. The answer to the first and second questions can be given in the affirmative. There is property and there is interference in property law. This initiative proposal proposes the regulation of property rights. The third question is the most important in the context of the legal sustainability of the law. Mr Rutte of the VVD has asked questions about this. An important tool is the study of Professor Barkhuysen, Professor of State and Administrative Law at Leiden University. It is important to put first that there can be restrictions on ownership. Treaty States have a wide margin of appreciation. They have ample discretion. Public authorities have the freedom to conduct policies in the public interest which may interfere with property rights. There is no doubt that the importance of this legislative proposal, the protection of consumers and insured persons, is recognised in European case law as a general interest. The question is how far Member States can go. This requires a fair balance test, i.e. a proportionality test. The Court also asked about the legal procedure and possible damages. For the proportionality test, that fair balance test, four rules of thumb have actually been described. The first is: the more serious the damage to property rights, the sooner a breach of Article 1 can be assumed in the event of a lack of or insufficient compensation. In doing so, the European Court considers, inter alia, the extent to which the interference resulted in economic losses. The second is: the greatest legal uncertainty or breach of legitimate and therefore not foreseeable expectations regarding the use of property is contrary to Article 1 in the event of missing or insufficient compensation. Specifically with regard to commercial companies, regulatory change is to some extent considered to be a normal business risk. The third is that the lack of means of redress against the infringement of property may lead to a breach of fair balance. The fourth is that if the national authorities have made a reasonable offer of compensation for the infringement of property rights, the risk of a lack of fair balance is reduced. The rule of full compensation, as in principle applies in cases of withdrawal, does not apply to the regulation of ownership. Treaty States have a wide margin of discretion with regard to the national compensation scheme. If we apply these rules to the bill, then the proposers expect the bill to comply with this requirement of fair balance. That's why I'm going to follow all these rules one-on-one. One important point is that the legislative proposal provides for limited interference with property rights. Barkhuysen and Van Emmerik call regulation a form of less far-reaching interference. This bill is not about expropriation. The profits of health insurance companies can still be paid out. The profit can be used to reduce the premium, improve care or strengthen the reserve position. This is the motivation behind the proposal. It serves the interests of the consumer and the insured. It is recognised in the written documents that health insurers were expected to be able to operate on a profit-making basis in the future. At the same time, these expectations need to be strongly taken into account. None of the health insurance companies have indicated in recent years that they want to make a profit. In fact, they agreed with the current political and social views on this issue. The bill is also nothing more than a surprise, also because the House of Representatives voted in a majority on 14 April 2015 for an amendment to establish a permanent ban on the distribution of benefits by health insurance companies. Support can also be obtained in European case law on this point. The ruling of the European Court of Human Rights at Pine Valley Developments against Ireland also shows that regulatory change to some extent is considered to be a normal business risk. This is a ruling which has been maintained since then and is also useful in the context of this law. The third condition is also met. In accordance with the law in force, proceedings may be initiated against the State when the distribution of profits is regulated. Finally, the offer of compensation measures. The starting point is that, as interference has more serious negative effects, wider compensation should be used to create a fair balance. That is clear from the case law. As stated, the proposers believe that this legislative proposal constitutes a limited infringement of property rights. It's about regulation, not expropriation. After all, the profits can still be distributed, but only to lower premiums, the purchase of better care or to supplement the reserves of the health insurance companies. Offering compensation is therefore not the reason. This is also supported by an examination of the cases in which the ECHR did come to an infringement of Article 1 and which therefore provided for compensation. Barkhuysen concluded on the basis of a large number of judgments in Strasbourg on Article 1, first protocol, that the European Court of Justice was not quick to observe an infringement of Article 1. They distinguish a number of situations which can once again be examined on a point-by-point basis in this legislative proposal. The judgments in which the Court adopted an infringement are, in the first place, cases in which the expropriation was not lawful in the State in question. That is not the case with this bill. It is, after all, a restriction on the right of ownership provided for by law. Secondly, these are matters in which the complainant was left in uncertainty for a long time, while all kinds of usage restrictions were imposed on her property right. There is no question of that in this bill either. For a long time, ten years, there has been a ban on profit distribution and now, well before 1 January 2018, this law is being dealt with and published. In addition, on 14 April 2015, the House of Representatives voted in a majority in favour of an amendment aimed at making a permanent ban possible. Thirdly, there are cases in which the public authorities cross the enforcement of a court ruling, in which a claim against the government is upheld, for example by a later law. That is not the case with this bill either. Finally, the Court is prepared to adopt an infringement of Article 1 in cases of obvious disproportionate interference in property law. When is the latter the case? European case law shows that it must be about an "individual and excess burden," an individual and excessive burden on those whose property is limited. There is no disproportionate interference here. It has already been indicated that Barkhuysen and Van Emmerik call regulation a form of less far-reaching interference. This is the case where the use of the property is restricted, without, however, losing the right of decision. That is what this proposal is about. After all, profits can still be distributed and used for what they are intended to be, namely lower premiums, better care purchases or additional reserves. Therefore, it is not obvious that compensation should be granted because there is no disproportionate interference in the right of ownership of insurers. Moreover, this also depends on whether health insurers themselves initiate legal proceedings against the State. That's up to them. So you cannot rule it out, but the health insurance companies have so far all indicated that they do not want to start with profit distribution. This also reduces the risk of legal proceedings. Why would you sue against a law that regulates what you don't want to do yourself? The VVD Group also asked a question about new entrants. It is stated that accession to the Dutch health insurance market becomes virtually impossible. Let me say a few words about this. Mrs Leijten will shortly go into more detail about the relationship between the Authority's report on Consumer & Market, this legislative proposal and the provision of capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	I see there are questions again. First Mr Koolmees and then Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'm joining the last block. Mrs Bruins Slot's speech is clear. All steps have gone well through that. However, I am stuck at the point where the reserves come from. In the note on the report, Mr Rutte raised the question of whether all reserves were made up of premium money or whether other contributions were made, for example from non-life insurance. I can very well follow Mrs Bruins Slot's reasoning for the public money, for the premium money that was intended for care. But we now also know that money has been transferred from other parts of insurance companies, from the expectation that profits could be distributed at some point. In the first term, I asked if you could distinguish between the two forms of reserve building. If you put Mrs Bruins Slot's reasoning along the bar of the ECHR, the same considerations apply to both parts of the reserves. Sorry about the complicated question, but I think this is important for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u27	It is a very fair question, which Mr Koolmees has also put very specifically in the first term. In building up the argument, we have chosen to do the legal part and explain again how the test was done. Mrs Leijten will be answering questions about capital and interest payments in a moment. So Mrs Leijten comes back to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u28	I am waiting for that to happen, but the origin of the property is important from the legal point of view. If the property comes from contributions in healthcare, which are really intended to pay care with it, then I am strongly in favour of that money remaining in care. It is a different story if the money comes from another part, with the expectation that it could be paid out in the future. It is therefore legally relevant to be able to identify the origin of the property.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u29	That is indeed the application that Mrs Leijten will do. It is good to emphasise that Mr Rutte spoke in his speech about expropriation, while this is about regulation. It is important not to mix that up. Mrs Leijten will be discussing this in a moment. That is why I have now chosen to lay down the legal implications very clearly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'll wait for Mrs. Leijten, and we'll be back in a minute. That is the very essence of my question. Is this a question of expropriation or regulation? That is what I am asking from the expectation that you can regulate money for care, and I understand that, even more so: I am in favour of this and that it might be closer to expropriation from other parts. I would like a legal answer to that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u31	It's regulation and not expropriation. Mrs Leijten will address in detail the question of how this is to be financed further. Mr Koolmees has indeed asked a number of good questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u32	Many thanks to Mrs Bruins Slot for her comprehensive legal story and for identifying the sources with which she supports her analysis. I have to put on my glasses, because I want to read something, although it is difficult that I can see Mrs Bruins Slot a little less. Mrs Bruins Slot pointed out that an amendment to the Health Insurance Act had been tabled earlier in order to make the current tightening of sickness insurance funds permanent. That was a little less far-reaching than this initiative legislative proposal. A second opinion was given by Prof. Dr. Kuijer, human rights advisor and professor of human rights at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. He said about that less far-reaching amendment "that there is a real risk that a (national) court will consider the application of the provision to be contrary to the right of ownership as protected by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms." That was confirmed by the state's attorney again. The letter sent by the Minister states that the Council of State also underlined that conclusion. So Prof. Dr. Kuijer, the state attorney and the Council of State found a less far-reaching part already contrary to property law. If we all hear that, wouldn't it at least be wise to ask a second opinion on this bill from an expert, for example the state attorney?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u33	The initiators differ in this respect with Mr Rutte. That amendment was indeed far more far-reaching. The amendment tabled and adopted in 2015 saw expropriation of property. Why? It continued the current situation. If a health insurance company were to make a profit distribution, the 2 billion in health insurance reserves would fall back into the State's bosom. Our bill doesn't. If there is profit distribution under this bill, the health insurance company must repay that profit, including a fine. However, the 2 billion in health insurance reserves are no longer returned to the State. So there is no question of expropriation. The amendment adopted by a large majority here was therefore far more far-reaching than the regulation of ownership proposed in this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u34	The question of whether it is more far-reaching or not can be very different. That amendment was only about the old health insurance reserves. Now the entire capital of the insurer is affected. The insurer is no longer free to do so. My opinion is that it is more far-reaching, and I think it is well-founded. We can go kisses about that, but isn't there any reason to have that tested legally? That really doesn't take months. Isn't that all the reason when it comes to such fundamental things? I would remind you once again of the advice of the three experts: Prof. Dr. Kuijer, the national attorney and the Council of State. Isn't that a reason to have this checked externally? When it comes to such fundamental things, it would reassure everyone that we are doing the right things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u35	That advice is based on expropriation. As I have just explained in detail in my speech, we are regulating property rather than expropriation. That's two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u36	I thank Mrs Bruins Slot for her careful legal explanation. It is very helpful, but I still have a few questions to ask. I do not know whether Mrs Leijten will be going into this later, which is why I am now presenting them to Mrs Bruins Slot. My questions are about the organization of a cooperative. The bill is designed to ensure that no profits are paid out. However, there may be a reduction in contributions. With a cooperative, you could say that the insured are also shareholders. According to the applicants, is the possible result to be granted to insured persons/shareholders in order to achieve a reduction in their contributions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mrs Dik has already built in a disclaimer, namely that she does not know whether this belongs to Mrs Leijten or to me. Mrs Leijten will go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'm just waiting for this to happen. I have a second question. The legislative proposal does not concern the removal of property, but rather the regulation of ownership. A number of health insurers have asked me a question. This bill would make it impossible to invest the money from the positive results of the supplementary insurance in basic insurance. This seemed very strange to me. I assume that the legislative proposal will leave that possibility open, but I am prepared to table an amendment to clarify this, if necessary, now that questions have been raised by health insurers. Can Mrs Bruins Slot imagine this? What could these questions be based on? Is clarification necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u39	It is very nice that health insurers have asked further questions on a number of points. That will clarify the legal history and make it even clearer what the initiators want and do not want. Mrs Leijten will respond to this point in her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u40	Then we'll wait and see. Mrs Bruins Slot is now finishing her speech. However, I can see that Mrs Klever has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u41	I have another legal question concerning the use of the profit in the reduction of premiums. I read in the explanatory statement that it is the explicit intention of the initiators to be able to spend the profits on reduction of premiums. However, I have read in an article by a lawyer that the wording of law does not see that as the law states that improving the quality and accessibility of care are the goals for which profit can be spent. This expressly does not include a reduction in premiums. Will Mrs Bruins Slot respond to this, because of course it is the PVV's intention and, in my view, of the authors of the proposal that the profit can be spent on reduction of premiums?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u42	In my speech, I said that profit could be spent on reserves, on reduction of premiums and also on the purchase of better care. So in this respect, I do not share the view expressed by the lawyer in his article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u43	In order to make it quite clear, Mrs Bruins Slot means saying that reduction in premiums falls within the objectives of improving the quality and accessibility of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes, and if the lawyer had read the legal text and the explanatory memorandum accurately, he could have found it in dozens of places. We have repeated this I do not know how many times in all written texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you for this clear explanation. I wholeheartedly agree with the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u46	Now Mrs Bruins Slot finishes her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u47	I had started a new part. I shall start again at the beginning, because after the interruptions perhaps not everyone has any clearer where I had left off in my text. I was talking about new entrants. The VVD Group has asked a question about this; it considers that accession to the Dutch health insurance market is virtually impossible. I will briefly comment on this; Mrs Leijten will go into more detail about the relationship between the Authority's report on Consumer & Market and this proposal, because it is specifically addressed in the report and the issue of capital provision. As mentioned earlier, Mrs Leijten has this time the honour of doing the financial part. The initiators do not share the opinion of the VVD. In response, members refer to the evaluation of the Dutch Healthcare Authority of the failed accession of targeted healthcare insurance ANNO12. The inability to pay out profits was not the obstacle. There were several other reasons for this, including complex regulation, uncertainty about political decisions on, among other things, the insured package and the high level of investment resulting from solvency requirements. It is interesting that the Authority's Consumer & Market report also mentions several causes that make it more difficult for potential entrants. I refer, for example, to the European capital requirement, which, according to the ACM, is disproportionately high; the difficult process of obtaining a licence from the Netherlands Bank, which gives little public information on this; the imperfections in the risk settlement, which we regularly talk about in the Chamber, which are particularly poor for potential entrants and small insurers; and the acceptance obligation which, in the opinion of the Authority Consumer & Market, might be temporarily limited to new entrants. The Authority Consumer & Market also refers to this bill. Mrs Leijten will go into this further in the financial section. This brings me to the end of the legal aspects of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u48	We have also seen Mrs Bruins Slot's reply in the written reply, namely that this bill does not really matter to new entrants, because in the past there were other problems that complicated accession. I'm paraphrasing a little bit. This has to do, among other things, with the enormous capital requirements, the high solvency requirements. They're a huge threshold. That's all true. Maybe we can change that. That's kind of complicated, but we could do that. If those solvency requirements are so high and if you can no longer bring an investor on board, it will be even more difficult to join the market. I can also put it another way: how the hell are you gonna get money to start as a new insurer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u49	This bill does indeed have an impact on market entry. Mrs Leijten will be discussing this in a moment. It will clearly explain why this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you. Which of you will deal with the amendments later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. I will. With the initiative bill banning the distribution of benefits to health insurers, we aim at a permanent ban on the distribution of profits for all health insurers, under all circumstances. For several reasons, profit distribution to shareholders or third parties is undesirable in order to achieve well-accessible and efficient care. Above all, because this undermines citizens' confidence in our healthcare system, as the financial benefit of social spending shifts to an external party. Mrs Bouwmeester has already addressed this in detail. We agree by a large majority that it is undesirable that this attention should shift and that care money is leaking out. Many questions have been asked about the way we handle this. For example, Mr Koolmees asked the initiators whether they had been examined whether this goal could be achieved by another route. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the same result could be achieved by imposing a certain legal form. We have been guided and inspired by the Minister. Mrs Bruins Slot has already made this clear in the section on the legal basis. In response to the adopted amendment by Mr Leijten/Van Gerven (33683), No. 14), the Minister said that it was not feasible, inter alia because it needed to be better laid down in reasoned legislation. We saw this as an invitation to this initiative legislative proposal. This is a law that certainly does not expropriate reserves or capital, but only regulates the result, if you wish, of the profits obtained, not to be distributed to shareholders, or to members within the cooperative or mutual guarantee company. As far as we are concerned, this is an appropriate regulation of ownership. Mrs Bruins Slot has dealt with this in detail. Whether a ban on the adoption of a certain legal form would also be a route is very much the question, I say to Mrs Dik-Faber. We don't know which escape routes are added to that. At present, 21 out of 25 health insurance companies are a public limited company. You can say you can't do this anymore. There are shareholders who want a return on shares. However, that would mean a huge organisational change. We didn't choose to do that. It is now clear: whatever legal form you have, it is not allowed. There's actually no escape from that anymore. Both health insurers and the Minister of VWS have repeatedly argued that profit-making is not in line with expectations, as the holding companies of health insurance companies, cooperatives and mutual guarantee companies are. That seems right, but the actually risky health insurance companies, which are 25, are mainly public limited companies, with shareholders. We have investigated this extensively, at the request of the VVD. It is wrong that we argue that health insurance companies simply change their legal form, as healthcare insurers Netherlands writes in his letter. We say that health insurers can easily change their statutes, precisely because of the legal form they have chosen. This will therefore enable a profit-making process to be introduced. Nevertheless, the VWS Minister, as well as the health insurance companies, have repeatedly indicated that the disappearance of a ban on profit distribution does not give rise to the expectation that health insurance companies will proceed with profit distribution. This certainly contradicts what we heard from Achmea yesterday. In the second letter to our parliamentary group in one week, Achmea literally writes to us: "It is clear that the decision to become active in the private health insurance market would not have been taken if it was clear that the assets in this activity would be permanently constrained and therefore no sustainable return can be made." From the start of this current system, therefore, Achmea looks forward to the moment that returns can be paid. That's a revelation that was made last night. I would like to comment on the deposits made from parent companies to subsidiaries. We have received information about this from both a.s.r. As Achmea. When questioned, it appears that this has been mainly paid-off, i.e. interest payments from the parent company to the care facility. I can tell the health insurance companies, as well as Mr Koolmees and Mr Rutte, that the valuation of the share, which is an excess, has nothing to do with this bill and that this valuation on the share can be recovered. There are procedures for this now, and there are procedures for that in the future. They're not affected by this bill. There are two ways to get the value added back on a share, which is an excess. One of those ways is an untaxed refund. That requires a step-by-step plan. The health insurance companies, the parent companies, can just go through that plan. If they do, they can get their value added back, under one condition, namely that the continuity of the organisation is not at stake. Now says both Achmea and a.s.r. that they did that valuation to meet the solvency requirement. If they took that back now, the health insurance companies would no longer meet the solvency requirement and would therefore jeopardise continuity. If this is the case in the future, they will not be able to recover that increase in the value of that share. Therefore, when continuity is not compromised, they can obtain that value addition to that share. With this bill, that's no problem. I would like to say to Mr Koolmees that a donation is a donation. A donation can be made within an association or a company or between a parent company and a subsidiary company, but that donation is then gone and that is no longer a matter for control. Where there have been dotations, those are gone, in the sense of unrecoverable. Achmea has given us a list showing that there have been 21 grants spread over seven years and spread over six risk carriers within their care facility. The coverage rate, Solvency II solvency, of Achmea in 2015 was 174%. This is an overreserve of 1.4 billion out of a total reserve of 3.3 billion. Whether or not they can recover this excess from the risk carriers is therefore primarily for their own assessment, but that is not stressed by this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u52	It is a good thing that Mrs Leijten says this, because there are very serious concerns with two insurers that they cannot recover those funds, which would have very serious consequences. Since it is very far-reaching what she is saying here, she says: this is not at all the intention of my legislative proposal, I would very much like to see a good basis, perhaps also a written justification, why these great concerns at Achmea and a.s.r. don't knock. That's a solid piece of legal work. That doesn't take weeks. Maybe we can do it in a day. In any case, it is important to be able to assess whether this is indeed the case, because it is about very big things. So: very good to hear this, but can we get the proper basis for that on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr Rutte can, of course, simply request and read my spoken text. Where it comes to getting back the premium deposit is also to be found. It can be done in two ways, as I have just said. One way is to issue shares, where returns can be deducted. It may well be that the health insurance companies have thought that this can be done in the future. However, that is not the way you get the deposit back. So in the future, because then it's about return. That pass is cut off. The health insurance companies argue in their letter that they would have lost their capital, as if it were expropriation. However, they may recover that value from the share by means of a procedure. I have here a roadmap that I can give to the Chamber: the refund must not exceed the purchase price for the shares, the premium must be converted, a notarial deed must be made, the general meeting of shareholders must be agreed and the value must be reduced on the shares. Those steps must be carried through and then it is possible. Then there is no return and the capital is to be recovered, but on the condition that the continuity of the obligations of the organisation, of the company, is not compromised. If it affects solvency, continuity will be compromised. However, that would be the case in the future. I note from the letter that the health insurance companies say they've lost the capital. That's not true. Adding to the reserves in the hope to override the return that is what Achmea sent us last night can no longer be possible in the future. It is also contrary to what all health insurance companies, including health insurance companies in the Netherlands, have said so far, namely that they are not looking for profit distribution. The increase in the value of the shares, in order to be able to make a profit in the future, is cut off. That is precisely what all health insurance companies said, until last night Achmea, that they are not after it. Achmea also wrote in the first letters that it made the deposits because they were necessary for solvency. If the deposit was necessary for solvency, that capital is to be recovered if it is no longer necessary for solvency, in current legislation and with our law. I have here an overview of the unpaid reimbursement. I'd be happy to hand that over, if that's all right with Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u54	I see nodding there. It's fine if Mrs Leijten wants to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u55	The fact that no capital can be extracted if it puts the solvency under pressure is obvious. That would be against the law. Nor should we want that at all. That money can be repaid which has ever been doped up within the group is very important. I haven't been able to read this in the law. It was unclear. I can deal with the concerns of Achmea and a.s.r. Very good proposals. I think it is very good to know what Mrs Leijten's roadmap looks like and on which it is based. That can take away a lot of unrest. So far, I didn't feel like this road existed. It may be good news, but I'd like to be able to judge it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u56	What Mr Rutte is saying here is good news. I should have liked to know the concerns of the health insurance provider earlier, and not on Friday before the weekend with a letter of fire on Monday. We've been working together on this. Let me finish this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mrs Leijten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u58	We've worked it out with our own forces. I've requested information from Achmea. Achmea sent it to everyone in public last night. That's good, because that makes it easy for everyone to see. Achmea says that it's been excess deposits for the sake of solvency and that it can't get them back. That's incorrect. That value add-on to the shares can get it back......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So it is possible if solvency allows it. The story that Achmea sent last night, that it wouldn't have participated if it had known at the start of the adventure in the private health insurance market that there could be no return on the assets, shows why it might have done so: adding own funds so that it could be paid in return. But let this be exactly what we are arguing, Mrs Bouwmeester, has also clearly said that this would seriously undermine confidence in our healthcare system. So one can withdraw one's own money that one has deposited, but not with return. A donation is a donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u59	This is new to me, all right. I am very much looking forward to the roadmap, but I also wonder on what basis this can be done. What legal basis exists for this? I have not read anything about this in the legal texts so far. It is clear that it will not be possible to do so if it jeopardises solvency. I think that's right. We are talking about Achmea and a.s.r. all the time, but I think there are more insurers to which this point applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u60	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u61	Okay. But isn't there the risk that this step will increase premiums? If the original amounts or deposits in the reserves are withdrawn and solvency requirements have to be met again, reserves must be built up. The money for this cannot be used for reduction of contributions or quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u62	You can also turn it around: by allowing the parent company to pay up in the care plant, these groups have had an advantage over their competitors who could not do so and who had to get it out of the premium. Achmea gave us the data on the premium deposits. I can talk about that; I do not feel free to construct a.s.r. to discuss it here, because that information is not public. Achmea has been a member of the Achmea Association until 2012. According to the company, this was done to increase solvency. In those years, however, the care legs of Achmea simply made a profit. Whether it was necessary, I cannot judge properly, but let us believe the company needed it for solvency. After 2012, huge solvency requirements have been added. That's all just covered from the bounty. It has all been added from the premium and settlement result. In fact, Achmea has an overreserve of 1.4 billion out of a total of 3.3 billion. So there's no problem there. The thought is pure. When the company withdraws the premium and has to supplement it for solvency, that comes from the premium. The same applies to Achmea's competitors who do not have a parent company that can apply that increase in value to those shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u63	A clear answer to my second question. I still miss an answer to my first question: what is the return of the premium based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u64	That's Book 2 of the Civil Code. For an N.V., this is Article 105. I didn't write the article for an e.g. This practice already exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u65	Achmea has an overreserve of 1.4 billion. We have just heard that. If you put that up against the excess premiums of 620 million, then I note that the solvency is not a reason for Achmea to recover the excess premiums, if the company already wants to do so by the appropriate route. I have a question about Achmea's letter of 25 January. About these premiums, the company writes: "This was done to cover the losses in the early years of the healthcare system and to meet the increased solvency requirements, as required by DNB." Mrs Leijten has just said that profits have been made over those years. It can't be both. Achmea says those deposits were made because the caretaker suffered a loss at the time. Mrs Leijten says that there has been no loss in those years. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u66	If you list the consolidated accounts of Achmea, you can see that the health department, the caretaker, makes a profit in those years. Of course, individual risk carriers may have lost their names that belong to Achmea, but that present themselves separately in the market and that they needed premium deposits. I can't control that. I have no reason to believe that Achmea is giving the wrong information. Mr Van Gerven's observation is in fact correct that the total amount of the premiums they have sent us is less than the current surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u67	I would just like to mention the figures, because I do not quite understand it yet. In 2007, Achmea's profit was 141 million, in 2008 85 million, 2009 319 million, 2010 262 million, 2011 326 million, 2012 286 million, 2013 529 million, 2014 418 million and 2015 287 million. So all years of profit have been made, even if it changes a bit. Then why the excesses and why the story of Achmea in the letter that was lost in the early days? What does that tell you? I can't get out of the annuals that there was a loss at the time. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u68	The annual documents to which you refer are public. I am also familiar with the overview you are giving. That's why I said that Achmea never suffered any loss in her care parts. They may have suffered losses on risk carriers and they may have shifted risks a little. We're gonna have to ask Achmea. We are now getting to the point where Mrs Bruins Slot has gone into, namely that they would make claims because it would be expropriation. Firstly, they have the capital at their disposal. There's an overreserve they can use to retrieve excess deposits. Secondly, we cannot understand the need for this increase. If they say it was necessary for solvency, then we have to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u69	Rounding up. I would like to point out that Achmea has a credibility problem. They have made huge profits since the introduction of this healthcare system. They have a reserve of 3.3 billion and an overreserve of 1.4 billion. However, they will come, let me just say it in my own words, here complain that they are under financial pressure and that they are so difficult that they would not be able to recover those deposits. However, Mrs Leijten's speech shows that this can be done and that they can get these premiums back through the roadmap. Then the demand remains above the market what lies behind it and whether Achmea does not intend to go for a profit distribution as soon as possible to the shareholders who are looking nicely at that dowry that turns out to be the caretaker of Achmea for those shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u70	I can't answer that. I can only conclude that their solvency position is good and that they sent the letter they sent last night. I can't look into Achmea's psyche and strategy. I do not really want to go into that either, because we can simply determine what we can establish. Mr. Chairman. In reply to Mr Koolmees, I had already mentioned the fact that it was not given to all health insurers to make this type of capital contributions in business lines. Achmea argues that it has done so in times when it was necessary because it did not have to take the solvency increase out of the premium. However, we have not seen a trendally lower premium. A.S.R. We've seen that and a.s.r. See the letter from a.s.r. We have also seen that they have been able to market lower premium labels. As a result, they received more customers, and this required more solvency, with the result that they had to do more premium payments. That is the dynamic the parent company chooses. This, of course, gives the parent company name recognition and a better market position. I would not like to say that it is always detrimental. Then I would like to return to the point made by...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u71	I see Mr Koolmees standing by the interrupting microphone. From now on, I would ask you to intervene briefly and answer briefly, otherwise it will take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u72	It's an important bill, though. I understand Mrs Leijten's speech, but you can also say the opposite. Because there are competitive health insurance companies that keep the premium sharp, people need to pay less premium. This is good for purchasing power and affordability of care. It is not only negative that new entrants keep the existing health insurance companies sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u73	No, but we haven't seen any new entrants. A.s.r. was already a health insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u74	We talk very often here about the reserves of health insurance companies and rightly so. Those reserves are stored up and not used for the care. Who doesn't see them back in the amount of the premium? Occasionally, there are new labels from existing health insurance companies that ensure more competition, which keeps other major players sharp. They need to deliver better quality, so better care at lower costs. That is what we all want here, because it is about the premiums that people have to pay. It's gonna be harder with this law. The law touches a little on the dynamics of the health insurance system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u75	I don't see how you make that harder. There's always time. Mr Rutte asked whether a shift in capital within a company was still possible. It's possible. In the future, it will also be possible to increase the solvency of a new risk carrier. Apart from the question of whether this is desirable, the deposit can be made. It's just that we can't get a return on it. The deposit related to solvency concerns other legislation and does not affect this law. Ms Wolbert asked whether there could be an internal cooperation within a holding company in the field of ICT and whether there could also be joint purchases of pens and desk chairs. It's possible. What is not possible is that after the result you still make all kinds of payments to the holding company via assignments. We have been in contact with health insurance companies at several times about the bill and also with health insurance companies Netherlands to ask for information. This is also what we did in response to the many questions raised during the written procedure. We regret that they have not taken advantage of the opportunity to approach us to submit this. I think we could have corrected this misunderstanding. We have been working hard over the last few days to find out because we found the allegations to be serious. I think we can reassure the health insurers and the Chamber. Mr Rutte comes forward, but perhaps I can answer his question already.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u76	We are giving Mrs Leijten that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u77	I say to Mr Rutte that we have relied on public sources. In those sources, these premiums were not found, the parent company's payments to the subsidiary were not found, because only the consolidated accounts are public and not the annual accounts of 25 health insurers. On the basis of our own investigation, we had no knowledge of these deposits. If we had known about this, we would of course have looked into it and reported it in detail. Like Mrs Bouwmeester, I note that Mr Rutte had that information and we did not. I would have liked to have answered Mr Rutte's questions properly, but on the basis of the public information and the annual reports, we were really assuming that our answers were correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u78	I asked these questions after I had done something, which I believe was in line with the initiators. I just made a call to someone. I asked: there is a bill here, does that cause any particular problems for you? The answer was that this leads to problems because a large part of the capital is made up of deposits from one side of the company to the other. That money may not come back. I asked questions about this because I thought it would be a good idea for this to be sorted out. This can also be done by other insurers. That's how these things go. Shouldn't the initiators have done a little more research? I didn't have to dig deep to get this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u79	We have looked at what has happened in recent years with the profits, the results of the health insurance companies. That is what they indicate: addition to the reserve for solvency and return in the premium if possible. We have seen this in recent years, and the Chamber has had information on this very often. That is what we have left behind. The fact that there have been excesses by Achmea over that seven-year period among the various risk carriers for the various amounts that have now been made public was really not known. Perhaps we should have asked for all these annual reports. We also wanted to ensure that this bill is dealt with because of the date of 1 January 2018. That's the next turn of the year. I would have liked to have had that information, but this is not to be found in the consolidated accounts. From this, however, we can draw up what happened to the profit over the entire care-leg at Achmea and how it was added to the reserve and returned to the premium. By the way, it is not found in information from the Nederlandsche Bank and the Dutch Health Authority. From these supervisors, you would expect this kind of information to be public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u80	In any case, it is a good thing that Mrs Leijten indicated that she wanted to make a bit of a haste. I do not think that is entirely incomprehensible. If it took a very long time, one of the initiators would not even have been able to defend the law. That alone is a very good and understandable reason to want that law to be dealt with, so I understand that very well. I'd still like to get back to the questions. In the first round I asked that question, but then I was told that it was irrelevant. In the second round, I supported the question and said that there might be other types of money in those insurers. Shouldn't that at least be a reason to do a little more research? Then we could have avoided these misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u81	We have done this research with consolidated annual accounts and figures from DNB and the Dutch Healthcare Authority, but it has not come out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u82	A practical question to Mrs Leijten: how many texts do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u83	I'm trying to get through it as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u84	We will hold you to that, but I still have a request from someone to suspend for a moment. Let's suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u85	Of course, it's the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u86	I understand. Now you see the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u87	I understand the minister needs to go to the bathroom. If the need is high, then we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u88	I have some questions to answer from Mrs Dik-Faber. I see she's not in the room, so I hope she hears it. She asked who no profit can be distributed to now. Mrs Klever also mentioned that. In fact, it would have been said in newspaper articles and by lawyers that profits could no longer go to the reduction in premiums. But you can explicitly do that. After all, one of the objectives of this bill is that the profit goes towards reducing premiums. If it doesn't go there, then it has to go to necessary backup or health care improvement. So it stays available in the care, or it goes back to the one who put the money in. By members we mean the members of a mutual guarantee company or a corporation. We would find it undesirable if we did not allow shareholders to receive dividends or profit distribution, but that you would then get a profit-sharing scheme for members through the corporation. That's what we're talking about. There are insurers in which insured persons have a certain membership, but that does not mean that they have a shareholdership. Take Achmea, for example. There are the insured customer members, but that does not mean that they hold a share. They are members of the Board of Members. That board of members delegates its director to the shareholders' meeting, where the association Achmea has 65% of the shares. Achmea, however, does not have the golden share. There's one A share, which is owned by an administration office. That always gives the decisive vote in the end. Can there be any money from the supplementary insurance to the basic insurance? That investment can take place, that is not a problem. I just explained that to you. It could happen through premium deposits. However, there is no return on this. That's what we're saying here. But that shift is not a problem at all. The ACM, the Authority Consumer & Market, the Chamber and health insurers have raised the question that they expect capital to become more difficult. And that's right. The only question is whether the provision of capital by third parties, and thereby the creation of shareholdership, is necessary. The necessity is not there. To speak with Mr Rutte, the health insurance companies are currently highly capitalised. The theoretical exercise in which it is said that the premium would increase if there is no capital from outside now is not a sensible exercise. First of all, health insurance companies indicate that they do not want to make a profit. Secondly, in view of the capital position, financing by third parties is unnecessary. Thirdly, it is only an expectation that the premium will be reduced by investment, while those investors also despise a return. The fact that this premium is going to fall is an expectation and therefore a look to the future. At Achmea, for example, these premiums did not lead to lower premiums. In the report, the ACM writes that the bill would lead to higher premiums. It is based on the need to raise foreign capital. However, this need is non-existent. Indeed, there is less chance of attracting shareholders and foreign capital that requires return. That is exactly what the legislative proposal is about. There is also the political difference between, for example, the Ministry, the Minister of VWS and the VVD. We see that the premium income, both nominally and through the settlement of health insurance companies, is sufficient. In recent years there has even been an average of 1 billion left in the form of profit or profit. The need for external investment and the need for shareholdership is therefore absent. Moreover, in view of the social nature of the health insurance companies, we consider this undesirable, because of the risk that profit distribution could mean a good risk settlement system and the fact that care money should be maintained for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u89	I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for this answer. There is no need for external capital at the moment. We all agree on that. There's excess reserves. We all want those reserves to decrease rather than increase. At the same time, I remember very well that less than ten years ago, when the market started, there were really problems with the solvency of health insurance companies. We can't look ahead either. It is possible that in five years' time there will be such a need. Last Tuesday, in my first term, I asked whether it would not be wise to seek advice from the Netherlands Bank on this issue and on the solvency requirements. What does it also mean for the requirements imposed by DNB on health insurers, if there are fewer opportunities to raise capital? It seems to me very relevant to consider in this debate what the premiums will do in such a case. Are the initiators willing to ask for such advice from DNB? As far as I am concerned, this can be done very quickly. I think it is right to ask the supervisor what is expected to happen there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u90	At the start of the Health Insurance Act there was a solvency requirement of 9%. At that time, we could not foresee that this requirement would go to an average of 17%. Those increases are paid out of the contributions of insured persons and the settlement premium. There has therefore been no need for foreign capital. In fact, in those years the premium could even be muffled, because reserves were returned. We do not need to question the stability of our system at the moment. That is actually what the ACM does when it says that foreign capital is necessary. We can ask for all kinds of advice, even Mr Koolmees is free to do so, but I note that health insurance companies indicate that they do not want a profit payment, apart from the letter from Achmea last night. Furthermore, the income from premiums is so robust that it is not necessary at the moment. This is an expectation. The principle that you don't pay a profit on the premium income and your activities are now ahead. As far as I am concerned, we do not have to ask for advice on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u91	I do not need advice on the principle either, because we agree on that. But I would like an opinion on the consequences, because of course something has happened in the intervening years. As financial spokesman in recent years, I have had a lot of discussions about bank buffers, Solvency II and insurance buffers, all of which had to be raised to prevent 2008/2009 from being repeated, when the Dutch State had to nationalise banks and support insurers. We borrowed AEGON as a Dutch State 4 billion to prevent it from falling over. So I think it is very right for the supervisors to think that the buffers should be raised with banks and insurers, including the health insurance companies, but that does have consequences. If the consequence of this bill is to increase the required buffers, because there are fewer possibilities to pay up capital, then I would like to know. This could lead to an increase in premiums, something the initiators do not want, and neither do I. I can call DNB myself to hear what people think about this, but this bill is of little use to us. I think it is good if the initiators ask DNB what the consequences and expectations are and what can be done about them. Because perhaps there is a broader discussion about the capital buffers for health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u92	We'll talk past each other. Mr Koolmees wants to know what happens when capital is needed, and we note that this is not necessary. A lot of things have changed recently in the system that have affected the financial position of health insurance companies, and that has never, not even by the D66 Group, been asked whether DNB would like to give advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u93	I object to this. We have had a lot of discussions over the last few years, certainly as a financial spokesman, about bank buffers, insurance buffers, Solvency II and preventing the collapse of banks and insurers in the face of setbacks, for example due to turbulence in the world economy. That's why we all want those buffers to rise. We do not want insured people to be able to fish behind the net and no longer rely on care when things are bad with the insurer. I think we can all agree on that. This has consequences, namely that the buffers should be raised. We accept that, and we have said that. On all these issues, such as the Banking Union, Basel III and Solvency II, advice from DNB has indeed been requested. DNB is a supervisor of the insurers. Here we do something fundamental in a health insurance market. For the fourth time: I agree with the purpose and the principle, but I do want to have the consequences mapped out. I think it would be wise if the initiators asked DNB what the possible consequences would be. At the moment it is not necessary, because the health insurance companies have too many reserves, but that is what we thought in a few stress tests by Italian banks, after which it turned out to be different two years later. I'd like to be prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u94	We talk a lot in our committee about the buffers for health insurers. In that context, we have talked to DNB. DNB has explained to us how, in the negotiations on Solvency II, he has taken all the necessary steps to obtain a derogation for the health insurance companies, because they have a compulsory contribution base and because political measures have been taken to complete a macro-management tool, which does not result in an excessive increase in premiums. Another reason is that they have to deal with an acceptance obligation, so they cannot do risk selection. They function through all kinds of public guarantees. In the current situation, profit distribution is prohibited. That's what we're gonna do. There won't be a new situation. We'll talk past each other. The current situation has resulted in a sufficient premium income and an overreserve of 3.4 billion to 7 billion in commitments. Another supervisor has said that the requirements of the Nederlandsche Bank and Europe are too high. The average solvency is currently 157%. There is no capital problem with the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr Koolmees, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u96	This is an important subject, Mr President. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. In fact, I find the argument that health insurers have a different position than other insurers convincing. I agree with Mrs Leijten. There are all kinds of public-law guarantees, such as compulsory contributions and compulsory insurance. This means that health insurers could be treated differently from other insurers. I agree with her, but that was not my question. My question to the initiators is whether they can ask DNB what the consequences of this bill will be for the required solvency buffers, with possible consequences for the premiums. The initiators should want to know that before they say yes to this. Once again, I share the principle, but the consequences need to be clearly identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u97	This bill is based on profit distribution and not on solvency requirements. If advice is required, you could also ask what the risk is of raising debt and the silent partnership contribution of the shareholder in it. All of that could be possible. Our political and fundamental point is that we do not want a silent partnership contribution from the shareholder. The health insurance companies' capital position is excellent. In fact, the Dutch Bank has once said to us in a meeting that the capital position is a little too high. I do not think there is any need for an opinion on this point, but Mr Koolmees is entitled to ask for his opinion. We don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u98	It is about very fundamental legislation. I think we should go a little further than the phrase 'we do not think it is necessary', especially since it may be interesting to know this and it is not very complicated to find out. Mr Koolmees is right that this may have consequences for the requirements of the solvency of insurers and the ability to obtain capital. It may also have effects on the premium. I say this not only because Mr Koolmees says so, but also because two insurers, ZN and the Council of State, have warned against it. Would it not be wise to ask for this advice, also because this legislative proposal ensures that capital from one insurer's risk carrier can no longer simply benefit the other risk carrier? That's been said by many. Is that right? Can we test that? Mrs Leijten's story about the agio benefit can also be very well tested. If that story is true, what does it do with the necessary reserve position and the premiums? I think that if we give the Dutch Bank two or three weeks, there will be good advice, which we can then consider. Not only will we be able to deal with this law well in time, but we will know what it is about. This is fundamental. What does this do to the reserves? And what does this do with the premiums?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u99	I find the way this is going amazing, to be honest. If we had known about the payments made by the parent company to the subsidiary, we would have been able to say earlier that the transfer of funds is not in any way an expropriation of those deposits. Mr Rutte described this as false in his interruption and pointed out that this had to be verified. Achmea says she can never get that back, while her deposits are lower than her overreserve. That's remarkable. The VVD and the proposers disagree on this. The risk of introducing a shareholder interest affects more than the capital position of health insurers. It affects access to our system, risk settlement and, ultimately, the premiums that people have to pay. This committee will examine with all its power whether there is no risk selection, whether sufficient care is being bought in and whether care standards are being met. In short, everything Mrs Bouwmeester just said. We are now discussing whether health insurance companies have sufficient capital, while that is plotting against the boards. I think it's a wrong order. The applicants do not consider such advice necessary. If Mr Rutte wants that opinion with the VVD, he can propose it to the Chamber and we will see if there is a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u100	I'm gonna try again anyway. There are a lot of things that Mrs Leijten thinks are important, and we are very much in agreement. You may or may not agree on the weighting of the law. I think it is particularly fundamental that when the initiators say that this law leads to lower premiums, because the money is no longer going to shareholders, it is a very fundamental thing, and that there are concerns that it may lead to higher premiums, you can check in a simple way whether that is true. It's not about what you do with the results. Perhaps Mrs Leijten says: even if it leads to higher premiums, I think it is a very good bill. It could be. However, I am sure that this is a relevant question for many other parties here. Therefore, let the only body in the Netherlands that can do that well. Why not the willingness to find out just as well? What's the rush? Why not want that properly and factually investigated? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u101	I do not really have much to add to my last speech. However, if Mr Rutte says that we say that our legislative proposal leads to lower premiums, he is wrong. We're not saying anything. I really wish that, for example, on access to the health insurance market for people with chronic illness or on the question of whether they can switch, just as much research and advice could take place. Many colleagues and parties in the Chamber argue in favour of this, but this is usually considered superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u102	I listened to this little debate. I would not rule out that once you are dealing with shareholders and investors, the assessment is that the risk is increasing and that this will also increase solvency requirements. That was not my question, however. I understand that Mrs Leijten says that the applicants do not consider an investigation by DNB to be necessary. I also understand that she wants to move forward, as it has already been argued that the initiators do not have all the time. However, I can well imagine that, as there will be no problems at all in the coming years, the process will continue, but that, in the meantime, in order to broaden the scope, DNB will be asked to take a look at it. I think you can do both without causing any delay in the further handling of the initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u103	I have already said that it is up to the Chamber to decide whether it wants such advice, but that the proposers are not waiting for it. I have argued extensively that there is no capital requirement at the moment and that this exercise is a nonsense to do. We'll look into a future that doesn't come out of this situation. I would like to point out once again that the health insurance companies continue to say, apart from Achmea last night in a letter entitled 'They do not want a profit distribution'. So the moment they say they don't want a profit distribution and you set it down in a law, there's no problem, is there? Then why would you have to test it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u104	In doing so, Mrs Leijten is going to give her the same argument why you can also do it if you can get a greater support in the Chamber. I'll consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u105	I listened to the Chamber with great interest last Tuesday. In my opinion, the basis for this bill is very large and, above all, one party is very opposed to it. It's okay. The petitioner sometimes has that position in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mrs Leijten now finishes her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u107	I would like to reassure Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Klever, who asked for a possible premium increase. I've just gone into that. A profit distribution could mean that the positive settlement result would not fully benefit insured persons in a lower premium, the patient in better care and the social interest of solid health insurers in the reserve. We therefore welcome the fact that, for example, the positive settlement result of recent years cannot be used for profit distribution. Several groups indicated that they wanted to go beyond the profit distribution that is before us today. Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Voortman would prefer to see a ban on the distribution of profits as a matter of concern. Mrs Klever would prefer to maximise and tackle the excess reserves. In this proposal, we have chosen to focus on this issue, precisely because it will change on 1 January 2018. We know that there is very little support for profit distribution, both socially and politically. That is why we felt it necessary to put this forward in this way. That does not, of course, alter the fact that these suggestions can be good, next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u108	You know me. If I want something changed and I want something taken care of, I'll get to the bottom of it all legally. Along with our unsavory Bureau of Legislation, I am almost ready to propose an amendment to also prohibit the distribution of profits in extramural long-term care. That is, by the way, legally complicated. What are the authors' views on this? Would it help this bill to table that amendment now? Or is it just not helping this bill? I think it is of the utmost importance. At Alliade we have seen the excesses of that again. As far as I'm concerned, it just has to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u109	The Health Organisations Act and the Health Care Institutions Act will have to be amended in order to avoid profit distribution. It interferes with different laws. The adoption of this amendment would complicate this. I would say that if the amendment is almost finished, it can also have the character of an initiative legislative proposal. Then we can take good advice and discuss it here. That would do more justice to that change. Socially, I think that is desirable, but because it affects a lot of other laws and then there is no legal test done by the Council of State, I think it would be strange to have the bill before us. That is why I propose that Mrs Keijzer take the initiative to make a legislative proposal of her own. I think there are several people in the Chamber who would like to take that up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u110	I suggest Mrs Leijten finish her story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u111	I'm almost done. Mrs Voortman has tabled two amendments with very specific proposals. The first amendment provides for fines and profit payments to be recovered for the benefit of the Health Insurance Fund. That is what we, as authors of the legislative proposal, intend to do. We were still looking at the point where the amendment deviates from our legislative proposal. We suggest that we take over this. If it's the same, it's not a problem. And if it's a tightening-up, we'll make the bill better. The second amendment lays down that, at a certain point in time, health insurers should no longer be paid out of profits and thus in the event of repeated behaviour. We also see this in the Drink and Horeca Act. If you sell alcohol and tobacco to 18-minners over and over again, you may lose your license at some point. So that's possible. We do not have a position of principle on this, so we leave it to the Chamber to decide. I'm closing up. With this bill, we aim to ensure that social money remains available to keep care affordable, including in the long term. The use of available resources for profit distribution to shareholders does not improve affordability for both society and the contributor. Last night, Achmea's last letter made it clear that this bill was needed. Achmea writes that it would not have become active in the private health insurance market if it had been clear in advance that there would be a permanent ban on profit distribution. They may not aim at profit and point to their cooperative character, so in their strategy they have for years been relying on profit making and profit making over the care part. However, there is no support for profit distribution with citizens' contributions and taxes. Trust in our healthcare system will be damaged, and in particular confidence in health insurance companies if any of the health insurance companies do so. If profit distribution becomes possible, distrust in the system will be institutionalized and the operation of health insurance companies will be monitored permanently with argus eyes. And a healthcare system based on distrust is doomed to fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u112	According to the rules, I have to ask whether the rest of the Chamber and the author agree to accept the amendment. The author agrees, I see, but some others want the amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u113	What is the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mrs Voortman's amendment to item No. 11. So that remains an amendment that will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u115	I have another question about that amendment. The profit distribution is recovered and a fine is imposed. That money goes to the Health Insurance Fund. I can follow that thought, but at the same time I have the feeling that it doubles the insurance companies. There is therefore a profit distribution that is not invested in better care or premium reduction. A fine will then be imposed which goes to the Health Insurance Fund. Isn't it better to force the health care provider to invest the profit distribution in reduction of contributions, better care or improvement of reserves? I feel that, although we are punishing the health insurance provider, we are indirectly punishing the insured. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u116	There is nothing to prevent the money from the Health Insurance Fund from being returned to the health insurance provider if he promises to do so. However, we want to prevent a recovered profit distribution and the fine from flowing back to a health insurance provider who has shown misbehaviour and actually does not learn anything from it. That health insurance company has some explaining to do. In the Health Insurance Fund, the money of all of us becomes available for the care. That's important. In the case of other administrative fines, it goes to the general reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u117	Let's not do the last one. When it goes to the Health Insurance Fund, it benefits the Dutch insured and ultimately society. This is a profit, but the insured persons of that particular health insurance provider are more or less lagging behind. I would like to raise that point. Are there no ways of taking a step forward in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u118	Of course, we've analyzed that, but it's complicated. The health insurance provider does something that goes against the interests of his insured person, so the insured person is lagging behind anyway. The health insurance company breaks the law and gets a fine. This also puts the insured person at a disadvantage. We assume that health insurers do not want to make a profit and make it permanent with a fine. So let's hope it never happens. If it goes to the Health Insurance Fund, it is still available to all insured persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Rutte, you really need to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u120	I have asked a lot of questions in my term, but not all have been answered. I can come back to that in a second term, but one question was very relevant. I put it to Mrs Bouwmeester and I was promised that I would get the answer from Mrs Leijten. That question is about the fact that care money has to go to care. In their reply, the initiators said that a bank loan may be made by health insurers. If a bank loan is repaid with interest, what kind of money is the interest rate with which the loan is repaid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u121	That's interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u122	What if dividends are paid out to an investor? What kind of money is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u123	That's dividend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u124	I am asking this because care money must go to care and money must not be paid in dividends. That's bad. But can care money flow to banks in the form of interest? That is the consequence of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u125	You can of course take out different forms of loans, for example for real estate investments and a mortgage can always be. This can also be done with health care institutions, even if there is profit distribution or no profit distribution at the moment. We have discussed in detail the need for capital injections, the need to raise capital. That can be, capital can be raised in the form of a loan, an interest payment and so on. The health insurer who makes a loan to a bank with a very unfavourable interest rate cuts his fingers because the premium will increase. That is exactly Mr Rutte's reasoning. With efficiency, the health insurance provider also cuts his fingers. In addition, there is something else around the corner, namely the importance of profitability. If a loan is granted, it is agreed at what interest rate and can thus be included in the books. There is then no permanent pressure from shareholders asking if the return can be a little higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr Rutte, very briefly, because this is your ninth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u127	In my own term, I have discussed in detail the position of new entrants. Can we still do that? It has been promised that Mrs Leijten would explain very well that there will still be opportunities for new entrants. Maybe it passed by me, but I don't have this clear. If I want to start as a health insurance company, how am I gonna get money to make that happen? Is that even possible at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u128	Sure, that's possible. I refer to what is happening now with Achmea and a.s.r. This can be done through an interest payment, an increase in the value of a share, but that alone does not yield a return. The founder of ANNO12 said he doesn't need a profit distribution. He assumes the principle that the insured person invests money and takes his own solvency with him, and by doing well, the insured person receives a reduction in his contribution. We can do that in the future. When profits are made and there is a positive result because the new insurer is doing well, this is reflected in the insured person's premium. At the same time, if he has also invested solvency, he will not get a return on this, but he will get it by reducing the premium. It's all possible. I assume that, at the moment that we have resolved all the issues that now make accession difficult, there will be no need for the complex legislative and regulatory framework and the high solvency requirements, with which there is nothing to do, to have solvency capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u129	Good. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u130	I can't get an answer to very relevant questions I've asked. I specifically asked whether the investors in ANNO12 could recover the deposit of €850 after the entry into force of this law. Or is that an excess?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u131	That stays, it doesn't go away, because it is a necessary solvency. The money can't be spent for anything else. It is a necessary solvency that remains and that you can get back. You just don't get a return on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u132	We shall now turn to the Minister for her advice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the cabinet, I advise against the initiative proposal by Mr Leijten, Mr Bouwmeester and Mr Bruins Slot, which aims to prohibit insurers from making profits. I reject this initiative proposal for three reasons. First of all, it's for system reasons. The bill closes the insurance market; no new insurers will be able to join. In addition, the cabinet sees a high risk of premium increases as a result of this bill. Secondly, for legal reasons. The bill is a violation of the property right that is the foundation of our economy. We therefore see a great risk that insurers will demand compensation for this. Thirdly, the cabinet points out the great uncertainties involved in the introduction of the bill, the consequences which can be profound and which are not addressed by the applicants, nor have been examined by, for example, the Nederlandsche Bank and the NZa. Nor is this the case with the technical aspects. This concerns care, an important provision on which vulnerable people depend and with which we do not want to take risks. The healthcare system has been put in place for good reasons and has been built up and developed in recent years. The Netherlands has a health care system that has good results, which are internationally regarded as high quality. The quality of care is good. The care is accessible. Internationally, the Netherlands really stands out when it comes to the accessibility of care. The care is also affordable. On the OECD ranking, the Netherlands ranks 13 with the cost of curative care. The system also shows moderate premium developments. If we put the development of the last ten years together, we can see how stable our system is actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u134	The minister's about to make a proper introduction, but she's here as an advisor. She's not here because she needs to explain a bill. I therefore ask her to answer the questions she has been asked. The consultant fits a reluctant role. Mr President, I was actually hoping that you would point this out to the Minister. You have pointed out to several Members that they must be short. Then I assume that you will also be paying attention to the Minister's answer to the questions and that she will refrain from too extensive deliberations as to what she might think of party politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u135	The Minister is here as an advisor. Then she can give her opinion. I'm assuming she'll answer the questions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mr President, this was the introduction. I kept that introduction because this bill will have a major impact on the stability of our system. I wanted to point out that the system is currently stable and why we are not recommending this proposal. Let me now turn to the elements of the impact that the bill will have on the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u137	The minister always says she has nothing to do with ideologies and systems. However, the opposite is evident in her introduction. Here's what's gonna make me feel better. I myself have submitted an initiative law, the ban on fur farming. The consultant was Minister Kamp, a colleague of this minister. He said to me afterwards: Mr Van Gerven, dear Henk, I do not agree with you at all; as a politician I think it is a dragon of a law. However, he was extremely correct and cautious in his advice. I ask the Minister to do the same now. We know each other's points of view. That's no problem at all. The difference between the VVD and the SP, GroenLinks, the Labour Party and the CDA on this point is clear. I ask the Minister to keep it very businesslike, to answer the questions and not to ride ideological stickhorses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u138	There is a bill that will have a major impact on three parts, on the system as we designed it, on the legal basis of the bill and on its feasibility, implementation and technical impact. On these three parts, I would like to give an opinion on behalf of the cabinet to the Chamber on where I see risks and where I do not see them. The Chamber will continue to do what it wants with those risks and that analysis. It seems to me that, in a legislative proposal that is so far-reaching, I should at least highlight the systemic risks, the legal risks and the risks to implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u139	In my speech, I wanted to make it very clear that I weigh this heavily. If an advisor to the cabinet makes it through initiative legislative proposals, we are in the wrong place. The authors are responsible for politics and content. The cabinet only fits an advisory role here. We will soon hear the Minister's arguments, but there is already a kind of language of hell and damnation and the end of time. We've had this system for 11 years, which doesn't involve profit distribution. You can find all kinds of things, but not that it means the end of time if we perpetuate the existing situation in the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u140	I haven't pronounced hell and damnation. All I have mentioned is a number of facts concerning the stability of our system. I have to go into the risks at all. I have said that we advise negatively for three types of reasons, namely system reasons, legal reasons and uncertainties. I'm gonna run those system reasons. If I didn't worry about those system reasons, I wouldn't have to mention them. If I am asked to give advice, I suppose I can draw attention to the risks that we see as cabinet. Then you can decide as a Chamber whether you appreciate those risks as much as the Cabinet or if you see them differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr President, I would ask you to ask the Minister to answer the questions and leave them at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u142	You have questions and comments which you may also raise. So that's the point. Now do you want the Minister to answer those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u143	Yes, Mr President, I want her to answer the questions and leave it at that. And I want you to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u144	I was asked by Mr Rutte to deal with the bill in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u145	I haven't heard a response from the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u146	If the Minister is asked to advise, it seems to me that she can give her opinion as a minister. I would just like to hear the answers to the questions now; I agree with Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u147	I just heard the Minister say that she is dissuading this bill because there can no longer be any new entrants, because there are legal reasons why it cannot be done, such as property law, and because there are all kinds of uncertainties. I do, however, need her to state on all these points why, after the excellent speech made by the proposers as far as I am concerned, in order to determine whether it is actually cutting wood or perhaps standing here a VVD minister who is simply for profit distribution in the care sector. That is ultimately up to us to assess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u148	I expect a minister to speak on behalf of the cabinet, but I would also like to hear the answers to the questions you have apparently asked later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u149	I would like to welcome Mrs Voortman's request that the Minister only answer the questions. We are now getting a very political story and I do not think it is appropriate to deal with an initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u150	Okay, well, I suppose the Minister's going to answer the questions now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u151	What I really want to do is what Mrs Keijzer is asking me to do, namely to clarify those three elements on the basis of which we came to this conclusion. First of all, the system reasons. Fundamental changes can only be justified if it is clear that public interests are seriously at stake. This involves quality, accessibility, cost-effectiveness, innovation and affordability. The present legislative proposal would be a fundamental change to the current system. Since 2006, we have had private health insurance within public framework conditions, and this is how our common public interests are secured: high-quality care accessible to all, efficient in implementation with room for innovation, and affordability both micro and macro. In this system, it is logical that positive and negative results should be borne by the insurer. That is why health insurers have become fully risky as of this year. The bill is therefore contrary to the private nature of our system. Not only in terms of principle but also in terms of effects, there are major disadvantages to this bill. In the current situation, no health insurance company is aiming for profit........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, the initiative law makes it permanently impossible to ever deliver a positive result. The disadvantages of this are obvious. The insurance market is closing. This point also makes the ACM. New entrants must meet solvency requirements and compete with existing insurers in terms of premium. New insurers must therefore attract money and be able to compensate for it for those who provide them with their own capital. If that is not allowed, then the equity acquired by the entrant is actually a gift. There are few people or institutions that give money away and so there will be no more new entrants to offer insurance. ANNO12 had the prospect that profits could be distributed and that was also in the certificates, namely a right to part of the result. The authors reject the argument and the cabinet feels differently. The opinion of the supervisors, such as the Dutch Bank, therefore seems to me to be of such importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u152	Is this a personal interpretation of the Minister or is this based on research into the accession of ANNO12? The study shows that the reason why accession failed was related to the complex regulatory framework. ANNO12 itself said that the fact that there might have been profit distribution in the future had in no way affected the desire to join. I do believe that the Minister is precise, precisely because she has an advisory role and therefore talks about the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u153	This reasoning is based on the Authority's Consumer & Market, which has also provided a vision. I share that view of the Authority Consumer & Market. I also share her view that it is very unlikely that people will give to build up equity, that you can put your money into something that will yield a return rather than something that will not yield a return. Most people will, too. I simply note that there is a difference of opinion on the argument. It would therefore be no mistake to ask the Dutch Bank about its views on it. After all, he's a supervisor. Frankly, I do not understand the difference in principle between interest and dividend. If an institution or an insurer needs money, it can go to the bank. That private bank borrows money and you pay interest for it. That's a fee for the money borrowed. Everyone thinks that's normal. If a pension fund, an investor or a collective of people makes money available, which increases the institution's or insurer's own funds and reduces the risks, and a fee is also demanded, we call this not "interest" but "dividend." Why then is that suddenly immoral, when it is better for the stability of an institution to have more equity and less loans? That was precisely the lesson of the financial crisis. The current insurers have oversolvency. That money is not gone, but reserved in case of major problems. Of the current reserves, insurers can pay their obligations towards providers on average for three months. The Netherlands Bank ensures that buffers remain at a sufficient level, both at group level and at the level of individual insurers within a group. The solvency requirements may result in the insurer being forced at any time to withdraw additional own funds from the market or to request from the parent group. This isn't hypothetical. Achmea and a.s.r. explained how they had done private donations in the past on the assumption that they could continue to have access to them. This also applies in a different way to health insurers other than those two mentioned, which together form a group. There are two variants I can think of: there is a dotation from the parent group to the daughter or it happens between parts, so between a brother and a sister within the group. If a group could no longer shift its result from a strong sister to a weak brother, the weak brother should stop his own pants. If this route is cut off, the solidarity between insured persons will actually be reduced and the premium will increase with the weak brother. The bill seems to ignore this effect. It is precisely because of the possibilities now available that the pressure on low premiums remains high. If it expires, there will be consequences. I think this should be clear. We quickly made a short call to the Dutch Bank following the unpaid repayment, on which the applicants have just submitted a document. The Netherlands Bank also indicates that this should be properly sorted out, because there are all kinds of variants within a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u154	I see a number of colleagues who want to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u155	I have a question I wanted to ask a while ago. The Minister says: I do not really see the difference between paying dividends or paying interest on a loan. I can tell the difference. The minister referred to the financial crisis. At that time, we saw that shareholders had a large, often profit-driven position. Concerns went beyond their own moral standards and values and lost sight of the importance of clients and, in this case, patients. As a result, I hope that all of us have become a bit shy when it comes to the position of shareholders. In that sense, it is really a difference whether you borrow from a bank or that you acquire foreign capital through shareholders. Anyway, maybe we're ideologically different in that. I come to that point of shifting capital: the strong brother who supports the weak brother. I believe that can be done immediately. If it only happens between care brands within one group, I don't even have that kind of problem. What I do have difficulty with is that the same movement can also be made with a poorly performing car insurer from the same group. I'm having trouble with that, though. Would the Minister care to comment on that? We are always talking about donations from other group departments to the care part of the parent company, but on the other hand we know from one insurer that the care part is working very well there. What does the Minister think about the company's donations to the glass insurance leg or the car insurance leg? That doesn't feel like solidarity to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u156	Let me start with the first point. I think that a great lesson from the crisis is that the equity of financial institutions, whatever insurers, must be strong. Without strong equity, you pay higher interest rates, because the risk is just higher. In addition, a bank also looks at risks. A bank also looks at the way an organization has been led to determine whether money is borrowed at all. If a bank doesn't trust it, the interest rate goes up. Care money to care? Care money goes to private banks too! Then there's the other reasoning. I think it is important that these donations have been made. Why did that happen? Because there was confidence that you could have it. The current legislative proposal is putting that on hold. In the future, the chance that it will also go from a damage insurance company to a health insurance company will be considerably reduced by this bill. Of course, we have a supervisor who will check whether your solvency is in order. You can't just withdraw money from your insurer if your reserves are insufficient in accordance with Solvency II. In addition, we have the premium competition, which ensures that you cannot become too expensive. Strange things can never happen because the system provides for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u157	This has been the case all along in this debate. Precisely because no strange things can happen, the solvency requirements will not be increased and the premium will probably not go up either. I shall return to the reason why these solvency requirements have been raised, both for banks and for insurers. That happened because of the risk behaviour of those banks. We have all read how the ABN AMRO group turned over the years from an old, trusted and solid bank into a bank that took far too many risks because of the position and pressure of shareholders and changing the moral standards in the company. You wouldn't want a health insurance company to go the same way, would you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u158	No, but you can't. That's what Solvency II is for. There is a lot of groaning about reserves among health insurance companies, but those reserves are actually a result of Solvency II. These reserves are a result of the financial crisis. On the one hand, you can be concerned about that. On the other hand, it gives a very good and safe feeling that these insurers are so well capitalised that they have reserves, so that, if things go wrong, they can continue to pay for three more months those hospitals, those physiotherapists and those other caregivers. So that's incredibly important. For the whole system, it is also incredibly important to me, in three points, to mention that we are maintaining flexibility in the sources of funding and that we are not making the bank the only one who will soon be able to provide external capital. That's what's gonna happen because of this bill and that's what the Cabinet's worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u159	We are now pretending that the robustness and reliability of health insurance companies depend solely on how to obtain external capital. Because we think the system is so important, we've built everything around it. Competition is monitored and regulated by an external supervisor. The capital position is monitored and regulated. We've made all kinds of agreements about how they can or can't compete. Honestly, I sometimes wonder, but I'm of course a layman, which risks those health insurance companies actually run. We have boarded everything up and all we want to do now is to put the shareholders at a distance or not at all. And then suddenly the health insurance companies would be so much more at risk. I think that is a very special reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u160	I am very much in favour of the regulation you mention. I am very much in favour of strong public conditions, because the care is something other than a car's non-life insurance. I am therefore very much in favour of the obligation to receive and the ban on premium differentiation. I also think that we should be very careful on all these public conditions. We do not disagree on that at all. Because of these public conditions, the Netherlands has quite rightly received a discount under Solvency II for our health insurance companies. It's no secret that I think we might have been able to get a little more. I very much agree with that. How big the risks of the insurers are is not for me to assess. That is up to the Dutch Bank, because that is our supervisor. I also talk to him periodically about how he assesses the risks in the system. As long as things are going well, we can say: we don't actually see those risks. That's what we've been thinking at the banks for far too long. So we have to have a strong supervisor and we have a strong supervisor! I am very confident. The Netherlands Bank has good supervision of this. My argument is about flexibility, about being able to shift equity, so that your weak brothers can help at a time that is necessary. The past has shown that this has happened several times, not only to these two insurers who have written a letter but also to others. It is important that it can be done, because that has made sure that the premium increase has been mitigated and that we have a stable system. That's why I started my introduction the way I started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mr President, I shall be brief. I haven't been standing here that often, by the way. That is precisely what the initiators have said it does not change because of the ban on profit distribution. According to them, these mutual dotations or shifts can also take place in the future. What is no longer possible is perhaps also a difference in the position between the Minister and the Labour Party that such a large group can make money by shifting capital. Of course you can slide if a weak brother in your group cannot meet the solvency requirements. Then, of course, you dope, and that might be the behavior we like to see. I'd rather that than think you could make a profit on excess deposits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u162	I have just received the A4 from the proposers, who state how they see it. I have, of course, been in contact with the Dutch Bank about this and it does not say immediately: this is what it is. The bank says he's really gonna have to figure it out. He does not say at all that it could not be done under all kinds of technical conditions, but that account should be taken of the differences that may exist. You have the parent company and you have the parts of the group. That's the first variant. The second variant is that it goes from one part of the group to another. During the debate I asked if DNB had any new insights and in response he said that he should take a closer look at it first. Which variants are there and what can or can't be? What is clear is that usual way of shifting dividends between a strong brother and a weaker sister is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u163	The proposal extends the ban. All the concerns that the Minister now has should also be concerned about the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u164	No, it's not an extension of the ban. The current ban only concerns the dowry that was given to the sickness funds at the time. The current ban amounts to 2 billion. The bill concerns all insurers and all insurers' reserves. This also applies to the insurers who were previously private and then entered the new system. They do not currently have a ban on profit distribution. The bill is much broader than the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u165	What I have always understood is that health insurers do not intend to pay any profit at all. They are not equipped for that either. Only one insurer does. I don't see the problem that way. I have the impression that the Minister is broadening the problem. Mr Van Gerven has already indicated that she is describing hell and damnation, while it is a continuation of the current situation. I don't quite understand the Minister's fear. I would also think that if... Mr President, you are moving in my direction now, but you also sent Mr Rutte back six times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u166	No, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it were so bad, the Minister should not have extended the ban on the distribution of profits two years ago. It has done so itself in the light of an amendment that has been adopted. I find the Minister's attitude inconsistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u168	I didn't think of the extension of the ban and it was about the dowry, about the 2 billion in reserves that the old sickness funds had put in. This bill concerns all insurers and all reserves, including the reserves that have always been private. That really is an essential difference. The insurers could never have expected this to happen. They were always free to spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u169	How much text does the Minister have left? Colleagues have tabled the initiative proposal and have used their deadline. There have been interruptions. How much text is left for this consultant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u170	I'm with the system. I would like to talk about the legal and actual practical application.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have a point of order. I have indicated that I am interested in a substantive basis for the Minister to be able to determine whether it is effective or whether the VVD rhetoric is anything else. I think it would be correct if the Minister did that pointy. Given the length of the first sub-point of the first point, I am a little concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mr. Chairman. We have had the debate with the initiators. It would be appropriate for the Minister to exercise some restraint. I would ask you once again to ask the Minister to answer only the questions. Otherwise, we are going to do the discussion all over again. I think there is a very important debate scheduled for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u173	I propose that the Minister continue her speech, but concentrate on the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u174	First of all, I'm not a VVD spokesperson. I'm here to advise on behalf of the cabinet. This is in response to Mrs Keijzer's comments. It has raised three points on which it wishes to give its opinion. She hoped that I would clarify these points. That's what I'm doing right now. I'm being questioned on parts of it. I'm trying to answer that as well and as honestly as I can. During the debate I asked the Dutch Bank, a supervisor, to help me to provide the information I did not have at the time as soon as possible. Attracting debt remains possible with this bill. An insurance company can still borrow. Interest must be paid for this. That interest depends on own funds, which this bill cannot easily increase. The bank's gonna be the only party that can give money. In short, the risks are increasing and therefore interest rates and opportunities are decreasing, which further strengthens the bank's position. The conclusion is therefore that the financing mix will be more expensive and less flexible. The second set of objections concerns legal and implementing technical objections. The legislative proposal implies an infringement of the right of ownership, which is protected by the ECHR and which is a basis for our economic movement. This is one of the main criticisms of this initiative proposal by the Council of State. The Council of State questions the justification of this infringement in the light of Article 1 of the First Protocol. That does not surprise me, because our own legal department has also noted this with regard to the far less far-reaching amendment to the Paying Tax Act. This is also the thrust of a second opinion of the Ministry of Security and Justice, drawn up by Prof. dr. Kuijer, which talks about a real risk of impairment because of the conflict with the ECHR. I outlined that legal analysis in a letter to you at the time. The amendment concerned the continuation of the requirement not to seek profit in order to preserve the former health insurance reserves. The idea behind that was to preserve the original health insurance reserves, say the dowry of EUR 2 billion that came with the new law at the time. So this amendment is far less far-reaching than the legislative proposal that is now before us. This proposal concerns all insurers, including insurers who have always been private and which were not covered by the bridging regulation at all. It applies to any form of profit distribution. The so-called "constraint" is therefore not limited to the dowry, but is about the total of EUR 9.9 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u175	I hear the Minister making a distinction between the original health insurance reserves, the 2 billion, the reserves built up with contributions in the care and the contributions from the insurer's mother, brother or sister. I also asked the question in the first term of the applicants. Then the answer was that the amendment that the Minister just mentioned was about expropriation and that this bill is about regulation, with which it has a different legal basis. Does this also apply to all three parts of the reserves that I have just distinguished: the original health insurance reserves, the reserves built up with premium money and the capital contributions from other insurance parts, such as non-life insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u176	I think there are indeed three. The first part is the old health insurance bridal treasure. The second part is all kinds of reserves that have been built up in a variety of ways and go back a long way from private insurers. They had much more reserves; hence the dowry that came with them. The third part is the dotations. The point is, with the money, you can't do what you want to do with it anymore. You insist on it, so your power of action vis-à-vis your money is no longer free. It's similar to the money I have in my savings account. That's mine, and I can spend it on all kinds of things. At some point it is said that it may remain in your savings account, but you cannot spend it anymore. The availability of your money is suddenly recorded on all three components.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u177	So the distinction that the proposers make, namely that the amendment that was the subject of expropriation two years ago and that it is now about regulation, is irrelevant, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u178	The Council of State has indicated that there are real clashes with property rights. I think you will really have to look into that, because not only does the Council of State think so, but we also estimate it. Actually, you're saying that the money is still yours, we're not expropriating it, but you don't have the free disposal you had before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u179	I do not think that was an answer to Mr Koolmees' question. The amendment was more far-reaching, because it was about expropriation. At that time, the Minister was much more reluctant. She just refrained from a prediction about the outcome of this question about property. So I'm only gonna ask the Minister one more time. She was much more reluctant about that far more far-reaching amendment on expropriation. Then why is it so certain that this proposal is contrary to property rights? After all, she herself says that what is before us today is about regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u180	Limiting the availability of property is a big deal to me. We are talking about 8 billion who do not come from health insurance reserves. The money was just active on the private market. No one could have anticipated that it would be possible to intervene on it. It is not covered by a current ban or an extension of a ban. The money was free. And now all of a sudden it's said that you don't have free control of it anymore. I am not alone in this view. The Council of State, of course, has not called attention to this for nothing. He has also asked to take a closer look at that part, if not rethink it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u181	The Minister has promised us a legal appreciation. Then I'll have it, too. She should not just refer to the Council of State, because that has been rejected here today by Mrs Bruins Slot. I would like to know from the Minister why, at the time, when it was about expropriation, she was much less sure than she is today about regulating property. All the more so since the European Convention on Human Rights states that you can do so in the general interest and provide for the law. So I would also like to hear a legal advice here today on why that is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u182	We are not talking about 2 billion who were subject to a temporary ban from the health insurance funds, but we are talking about the whole insurance market, of nearly 8 billion. So the dowry has been deducted from it. It has not been possible to expect that there would suddenly be a restriction on the availability of own funds in the air. That limitation of the decision is now suddenly being introduced. We therefore believe that there is a real chance that this will not stand before the courts, and that at the very least it should be accompanied by policies or even compensation. Since this is not unrealistic, I believe that further legal advice is needed. That's what the Council of State says. I'd say adjustment. But you can also say that an extra test is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u183	The Minister doesn't answer my question. She's trying to impress me with an amount. That there is a lot of money on the shelf with the health insurance companies, we agree on that. I just want to hear from the Minister why the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights on Pine Valley Developments Ltd and Others versus Ireland does not apply here too. This shows that legislative change is a normal business risk. By the proposers, this change is also based on motions, statements by the minister and statements by health insurers. The Minister has promised to answer that question, and she is taking her time. I therefore want to hear today why Mrs Bruins Slot's rebuttal today is not valid. If the Minister is unable to explain this, it is good to establish that here too today. In that case, the Minister's advice is not valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u184	If you go through the questions that have just been answered by Mrs. Bruins Slot, you see the following. It's about ownership and interference. Is it justified? I started the stability of the system for a reason. The judge will examine whether there is a direct cause for intervention. That's why I kept my introduction. The judge will assess whether it's proportionate. On the basis of my introduction, which took a little too long for Mrs Keijzer, but which puts the basis under my reasoning, I think there is a good chance that the judge will find this to be disproportionate. Furthermore, it is a question of whether we had seen it coming. Well, with regard to the dowry, the discussion is much longer, but with regard to the whole insurance market, also the private one, which has always existed in the Netherlands, you can't say that. Then you could say that there is indeed a breach of one's own standards, so that there can be talk of a real risk of harm. We must make it possible to discuss that risk, even if it is not a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u185	If I'm a fisherman and I buy a fish cutter to go fishing on tongue, after which the government changes the rules a year later, which means I can't fish on tongue anymore, then I lost my fish cutter and my money on it. 'Cause I can't fish with it anymore. That's a business risk. I've had bad luck, because I got into a market where I thought I could make money. Then you know, especially in a market where there is a lot of government regulation, that you run a certain risk of changing the rules. Isn't that just the case with the health insurance companies? They have entered a market where they hoped that after ten years profits would become possible, something they never knew for sure. But if you follow the social discussions of the past few years, you could see that it would be changed. Isn't that just the case here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u186	No, because they were already active in this market. There was a change of law, and their capital was free, which is also the case now. This bill is suddenly changing and oppressing it. That's the big difference. What I point out is that the cabinet is seriously questioning whether this can pass the proportionality test. The Court finally decides whether it intends to take that risk, but it is my job to point out that the risk is also considerable that the judge decides otherwise. That is money that must also be raised by the contributor. It therefore seems real to me to bring this to the attention of this House. Then the Court can assess whether it shares this with me or not and how high the risk of compensation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u187	I note that for 11 years we have had a system that prohibits the distribution of profits. Furthermore, there has been a discussion for many years about whether health insurance companies are allowed to make a profit. So health insurance companies could have seen this coming. In this case, the social importance outweighs that of a health insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u188	There really is an important difference, because profit distribution is not prohibited. Insurance companies are already allowed to make a profit today. They can only not do that on the old 2 billion health insurance reserves. But on the other money of nearly 8 billion, insurers can already pay benefits in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u189	The Minister is trying to scare us with damages claims. Mrs Bruins Slot has already addressed this in detail. In what situations have claims been awarded? That is when the restriction of property rights was not provided for by law, in situations where for a long time there was uncertainty among the owner, with all kinds of restrictions of use, in situations where the government was in breach of a law and in a situation where there was an "individual and excessive burden'. Would the Minister please answer the question as to which of these situations is at issue here? I'd like a very precise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u190	I'm not scaring anyone. I would point out a risk of this bill. You can take that risk, if you want. You can't share my analysis. You cannot share the analysis of the Council of State. That's your right. You cannot share the analyses of our legislative lawyers; also well. Based on your argument, you can choose to take the risk knowingly and knowingly. That's your right. You can do that as a Member of Parliament. I would just like to point out that the ECHR plays an important role in this. Is it proportional? Is it justified? Is there any reason for that? My answer would be: I doubt that very much. In fact, I don't think it's proportional. I didn't bring up the stability of our system for nothing. This was not to be expected and this was not in the air. Mrs Klever is right to say that we have always had debates on the dowry. But we have never discussed the distribution of profits among all insurers, including private insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u191	I can't get an answer to my question. The minister's using a forgery. She's referring to someone who's said something from a certain position. I mentioned four situations in which compensation was ultimately granted. I have also put forward the arguments on the basis of which that happened. I asked the Minister why, according to her opinion, this is the issue here. The reference to the same general remark, namely that there is expropriation, cannot be enough. I was going to say "too big an impact," but that is not the issue here. All opinions assumed expropriation. I ask the Minister once again. The Minister has been able to prepare himself for this. It is also well supported. I would like to hear in all these sections why the Minister thinks they are at issue. Why is there an "individual and excess burden"? Is there a limitation of ownership that is not regulated by law? That would be special, because we are dealing with a law, but that is one of the situations I mentioned. If you think there's a risk, you have to be able to justify it. I didn't hear the Minister do that. The Minister's advice is not valid on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u192	I leave that judgment to everyone. There is an infringement of property, because the availability of your property is limited. Is that proportional? You can change this by law or other regulations. Is there a real business risk? Could you have seen this coming? Was this logical? Was it in the air? If not, then the offer of compensation is at issue. You can't just break a law into people's property; fortunately, I'd like to say. The fact that a law allows you to limit the availability of your property constitutes a real risk of impairment. This risk of impairment has been identified not only by the Cabinet, but also by the Council of State. That is what I am talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u193	Mrs Keijzer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u194	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I am very sorry, but what the Minister says is simply wrong. The judgment I just mentioned, Pine Valley Developments Ltd versus Ireland, states that the change of legislation is a business risk to be accepted. Member States will have ample scope to consider that it may be in the public interest to regulate ownership. If you then find that you have suffered damage as a result, a number of statements show that this is not the case. I have argued that the Minister should be given the opportunity to give an opinion, but that must be a neutral opinion. If you cannot give that, because there are all kinds of personal interpretations, then you go beyond the position and the task you have in this debate. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mrs Keijzer does not have to share our advice or our fears, but I do think it is my job to put them on the table here. It's true that with laws and regulations you can change the situation where you have to do your business. Mrs Klever just gave an example of this. With a law you can say: you can't do this anymore or you can't do that anymore. But if you restrict your property by means of laws and regulations, without any compensation being paid, there is, in my view, a risk of impairment. I do not think that as a person, I think that on the basis of opinions that we and you have received on this matter and which we usually take quite seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u196	The Minister bases himself, among other things, on an assessment by the Dutch Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u197	The Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u198	I thought you'd just made a call to the Dutch Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u199	That was about the donations within groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u200	My question is this. Can you actually say with a dry eye that health insurance companies who are part of the political attention, who are not in the lurch, let me say it carefully never from their accountants, if they had to sign their financial statements and write a management letter about the risks of a group, have heard: pay attention to the discussions about banning profit distributions, because that may be a risk to your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u201	For the dowry, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u202	Wouldn't it have made sense for these organizations to have preached on that? We know how you're doing with those management letters. Such an organization gets a warning and acts on it. Could it not also be that the health insurance companies have been thinking all these years: that is not going so fast and we are not going to prepare ourselves for that at all? That they're screaming murder and fire now, that might be a little bit stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u203	I do not share that, because for the insurers who come from the private market and have become active or actually remain under the new law, there has never been a proposal that they would no longer be able to dispose of their assets as they wish. That was not the subject of the debate. Mr Van Gerven has made a comparison with the mink farms. But the mink-farming industry was not at all about own resources, but about measures, accompanying policies, compensation for costs and all kinds of other things. I don't think this procedure is gonna last forever, legally. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u204	I am opposed to the Minister's statement that this measure would have been taken raw on the roof and suddenly on the board of health insurance companies. I think you are boundlessly naive and not of this world if you do not follow what is the trend of discussion here in the House of Representatives. Profit distributions have been constantly questioned, at least in the last four years. So they should have prepared themselves for the risk that a discussion like we have now would come sometime. When maybe they didn't know it was coming, but they could have counted on their fingers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u205	I doubt that. In the government agreement there are only things about more distribution of profits in the care and no rule about less distribution of profits in the care. Thus, even on the basis of such a government agreement, insurers could not have expected that, without accompanying policies, such measures would suddenly be taken. I'm not saying you can never take such a measure. I'm just saying that accompanying policy is part of that. We know it costs money. Wouldn't it be much wiser to look at how big that chance is and what it's about before you make a law? Now a first law is made to see where the ship is stranded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u206	I do not think that this presentation of things is very realistic. We all know the health insurance companies as very professional, super well-advised and very sharp in time operating groups. Of course, they have long thought about the risks they run. I think they should have been acting a long time ago. The Minister is now telling you to find out what the effects are. That's a real difference. I think you've already lost your ground for filing a claim for damages if you've been sitting on your ass for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u207	I refer once again to the coalition agreement. I would also like to invite everyone to look at that again. That's the political program on which you rule, isn't it? It only contains texts on more profit distributions and not on less. Secondly, my concerns are not so much for the benefit of the insurer. My concern is that there will be claims that the premium and taxpayer must make. If the insurer is granted a claim before a court, it must also be paid. I would like these risks for the State to be seen in advance. My advice is to do that in advance, rather than bet on it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u208	One last comment. The Minister now refers twice to what is in the coalition agreement. I would find it very naive of health insurers if they thought that the reality would not change for four and a half years by means of a government agreement. I really don't believe that. That would only indicate that they've been sleeping or didn't want to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u209	In general, fundamental changes are included in a government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u210	I suggest the Minister finish her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u211	Then I come to my last block, which is about the technical permanence of the bill. Apart from the fundamental legal objections, there are questions as to whether it is conclusive, feasible and enforceable. Let me give you a few examples. The bill contains, oddly enough, no definition of profit. In response to questions from the members of the CDA Group in the report, the initiators assume that the bill provides a basis for the NZa to intervene when health insurers circumvent the profit ban. Profit may not be distributed, but what is profit? Is it also about distributions on profit certificates that cannot be regarded as dividends? Is it also about bonuses to employees? Mrs Klever has asked whether the money can be spent on reduction of premiums; in this respect, too, the bill raises questions. Whether or not this bill allows profit to be used for reduction of premiums is not entirely clear to me. The definitions are missing from the proposal. When the bill restricts only the destination of profit, it is still possible to reduce the premium. The reduction of the premium results in a lower profit accounting and is not a profit allocation. However, it is not clear to me whether the authors of the bill do not actually mean profits and capital that are subject to restrictions. Capital, or reserves, is largely built up with past profits. If the restrictions imposed by the bill also apply to the reserves, then it is no longer possible to reduce the premium by using the reserves when the profit for them is insufficient. Wouldn't it be wise to look into that more closely? According to this bill, the profits may be spent on quality and accessibility, but that too is not defined. It is therefore unclear which uses the initiators have in mind. The explanatory statement does not provide a clue. How should this be poured into an AMvB? Do the initiators have any thoughts on that? Finally, the enforcement of the bill seems problematic to me: a fine must be imposed on any behaviour that violates the bill. However, the imposition of sanctions cannot be mandatory automatic. This requires consideration and decision-making, taking into account general administrative law. This applies all the more to the amendment tabled, with the aim of preventing the insurer from carrying out health insurance in the event of distribution of profits. So much for the cabinet's judgment on this bill. It may be clear that our opinion would be: test the bill on a number of implementation and definition aspects, see if the bill can become stronger and look at the impact of the bill, which, once it has been adopted, could be seriously damaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, the clock has been ticking. We can now have a very short second term or we can move the rest, because there will be a debate for tonight. I see that Members now want to do the second term. If that can be done briefly and if you stick to it, we will, because you all think this bill is important. That means a maximum of one interruption among all the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u213	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors for their comprehensive reply in the first term. The CDA's questions have been answered. In an interrupting debate between Mr Rutte and Mrs Leijten it became clear that public information is not the result of individual health insurers. That's kind of crazy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large number of health insurance groups operate with more than one risk carrier within the organisation;]] [[noting that some insurance groups also have various non-life insurance within the organisation, one of which is health insurance;]] [[noting that this may create uncertainty as to the financial situation and the origin of the assets of individual health insurers within a group;]] [[noting that it is also unclear whether transfers of assets from other parts of an insurance group create competitive advantages that distort the health insurance market;]] [[invites the Government to have the Dutch Healthcare Authority examine how annual accounts of individual health insurance companies can be disclosed in so far as they do not do so themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Wolbert and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34522-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u214	Over the past few years, several stories have come out showing that home care institutions have become very wealthy. In combination with all the stories of the elderly and the disabled who are cut short on their care or for whom care has completely stopped, that affects me. Alliade was a low point for the time being. Care money needs to go to care as much as possible. I've been looking into this legally. Together with the Bureau of Legislation, I have more or less completed an amendment, but I have asked the authors whether it is wise to table that amendment today. In fact, I agree with Mrs Leijten that you should have this checked in this law a little more widely than is currently the case with an amendment. I will not therefore table the amendment, but I would like to table the next motion in order to check whether people see this as a matter of urgency in the Chamber. After all, it's a lot of work. I saw that sideways, when Mrs Bruins Slot was working on this with the support of the CDA Group, Mrs Senne and Mr Dees.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care payments should go to care as much as possible;]] [[Considering that several situations have recently emerged in which it appeared that the owners of health care companies paid out a lot of money as a profit to themselves;]] [[calls on the government, equal to the inpatient long-term care, to come forward with proposals to prohibit also benefits in outpatient long-term care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34522-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u215	The CDA Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u216	Mr. Chairman. The proposers had already discussed yesterday's letter from Achmea in detail. GroenLinks was also surprised. In fact, Achmea says that the expiry of the prohibition on profit distribution ten years after the introduction of the current system was merely a formality. However, an important condition was that the insurance market should function properly. I think that Achmea's letter is evidence of a lack of self-reflection. Because the insurance market is functioning well now? Not as far as we're concerned. That is why we will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. I would like to thank the authors, particularly Mrs Bruins Slot. The debate called for a lot of attention to be paid to ownership and the ECHR. GroenLinks also attaches great importance to human rights. I thought Mrs Bruins Slot very well indicated that it was a very clear consideration every time. I can imagine that this will also be an important question in the Upper House, should a majority of the Lower House adopt this bill. GroenLinks will therefore vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u217	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for their thorough and thorough answers. It was good to hear that with this bill there is no expropriation but only regulation, and that there are opportunities through a roadmap to recover deposits made. Given Achmea's solvency, we do not have to be afraid that the continuity of care for the insured of Achmea may be compromised. Also reassuring is the explanation and confirmation of the initiators that reduction of premiums is explicitly possible. The PVV has been on the view for years that money has to be returned to the contributor as health insurance companies. This bill ensures that the profits of health insurers do not disappear in shareholders' pockets. This ban has been in place for ten years and is now being made permanent. My group will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u218	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the proposers, the supporters of the proposers and the Minister for the clear first-term answers. D66 shares the purpose and principle of the law and will therefore support the bill. Care money must be spent on care, on reduction of contributions, on the quality of care or on maintaining reserves. I have a few additional comments and questions. Firstly, on the legal risks which have frequently emerged in the debate and which have also been identified by the consultant. My group believes that it is wise to better identify these legal risks. I have already said in my first term that I attach great importance to a DNB opinion. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposers of the initiative proposal have not sought advice from the Netherlands Bank for the benefit of health insurers;]] [[considers that it is necessary to know the financial consequences of this legislative proposal, in particular the required solvency and its impact on insurance contributions, and the possibilities for agio-refunding;]] [[invites the proposers to have this bill provided with advice by informing the Netherlands Bank and the Chamber about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34522-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u219	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators for their detailed answer. I should like to thank Mrs Bruins Slot in particular for her detailed legal explanation. It wasn't always easy, but it was very enlightening. I have a few points to make. It has become clear to me that a positive result from the group can be transferred to basic insurance and that, in reverse, there are possibilities through a roadmap to recover previous donations. It is important to establish this with each other. I have also noted that this is not about expropriation, although these words have often been used in this debate, but about the regulation of ownership. My group considers this justified because of the public interest served by this bill. I will therefore give my group a positive opinion on this proposal. Since risk selection is permitted in the supplementary insurance but is not desirable, I shall table a motion on this point. The legislative proposal may have consequences on this point and I want them monitored. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas health insurance companies may, however, continue to pay out profits from supplementary health insurance;]] [[Whereas this could lead to greater profit maximization and risk selection in supplementary health insurance;]] [[calls on the Government to have the NZa monitor whether, as a result of the ban on the distribution of benefits in basic care insurance, patients with a high risk of supplementary health insurance are more often refused and brought with them experiences of patient organisations, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34522-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u220	Mr. Chairman. If people think I'm standing here with dubious interests, you might think that if you look at my twit timeline, I'll have to disappoint them. I stand here as a Member of Parliament only for one purpose, namely to ensure that good care with the highest quality in our country remains available and affordable for everyone. I've been fighting for that every day for over ten years and in different positions. That is my only goal and that is why I am so firm in my input. Whatever we have shared, there are great concerns about ownership and accession. Can it still be, is it easy, is it easy enough. For example, the ACM says something about this. There are concerns about the stability of the system so that the accounts can be paid now and in the future, even if something goes wrong, and there are concerns about accessibility. Because care is extremely important. Care requires extreme care in interventions in the way the care is organised. I therefore urge the initiators to seek additional advice from the Nederlandsche Bank in order to assess the effects on solvency, premium levels and the possibilities for premium payments. I refer to the motion that I tabled today with Mr Koolmees. There's really time for that, this doesn't take months, but it is essential to know this. This also applies to questions on ownership and on the effects on the scheme and the amount of the premium that could be investigated by the NZa. I therefore have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the present proposal for an initiative has implications for the current healthcare system;]] [[Whereas a negative change in the financial position of health insurers can directly affect healthcare providers and the level of the premium;]] [[invites the government, in coordination with the initiators, to consult the Dutch Healthcare Authority on the impact of the present initiative proposal on the level of the healthcare premium, the stability of health insurers as well as the possible effects for healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u221	I'll keep my speaking pace up, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that ownership is one of the foundations of the Dutch rule of law;]] [[Whereas the present proposal for an initiative has an impact on the right of ownership;]] [[noting that the Council of State has been highly critical of the justification for the restriction of property rights in the context of the general interest;]] [[Considering that Professor M. Kuijer, strengthened by the Land Attorney and the Council of State, on an amendment to the Health Insurance Act which regulated a permanent tightening of reserves, concluded that this would be contrary to property law;]] [[Whereas an infringement of property rights may lead, inter alia, to claims for damages by health insurers, legal uncertainty and damage to the investment environment;]] [[invites the government, in agreement with the initiators, to request a legal second opinion from the national attorney specifically on the impact of the present initiative proposal on property rights, any claims and expected level thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u222	The amendment was about expropriation, but that aside. It is easy to table a motion, but can Mr Rutte comment on the rebuttal of what is in this motion by Mrs Bruins Slot? Could he do that exactly? Otherwise, it will remain a statement that will be involved. We are also here to discuss with each other what is actually going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u223	Mrs. Bruins Slot is a lawyer, and so am I. So we can have a deliberation from lawyer to lawyer. If that's what Mrs Keijzer wants, I'd like to do it for her. It remains an opinion against an opinion. In order to get away from this and because there is an amendment which is very similar to what is happening here but which, in my view, is less far-reaching, I say: let the lawyer give a second opinion. He can say with great objective authority what's going on. If Mrs. Bruins Slot is right, I will admit my wrong judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u224	Then Mr Rutte also knows the Pine Valley Developments ruling against Ireland, which shows that a regulatory change can be regarded as a normal business risk. Does he know better than the European Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u225	I'm a lawyer. As a lawyer, I know that you must assess every judgment and every piece of case law on its own merits, in the situation where something has taken place. Casusism matters. I would like to say this to Mrs Keijzer. You can take one part of a judgment and conclude that you have to take into account in the Netherlands that legislation changes and your property is limited, but I cannot imagine that Mrs Keijzer thinks that is a very good idea by definition. She is a member of the CDA, a political group which, for example, is constantly at the forefront of expropriation of agricultural land, says that it should not be regulated properly and that appropriate compensation should be paid. And rightly so, because ownership is a foundation of our society. Laws and regulations can be amended, but they also need to be careful, well-considered and proportionate. I would like to leave that weighting to the highest legal expert alongside the Council of State, who also had doubts about it. That's why I'm asking the state's attorney for advice. It would be a credit to Mrs Keijzer if she didn't pretend that I didn't want to hear it all or not to answer the arguments, but if she says instead that ownership is important and I'm prepared to wait for the second opinion. Those few weeks may well suffer this bill because of the fundamental importance of ownership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u226	Briefly, Mrs Keijzer, and a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u227	Agriculture, but also fur breeding, for example, is a completely different discussion. By the way, the law has remained in place at the fur farm. Now it is about a law, a condition on which you can regulate, in the context of the general interest. That is what we have here at the head and everyone agrees on that. Mr Rutte has just said that it is about the general interest of consumers and insured persons, of good care and of moving money back to insured persons or better purchasing. Mr Rutte also sees that this is the issue here, so that in the case-law of all the judgments of the European Court this is loaded with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u228	The present law is not about agriculture, but it is about the impairment of property rights, among other things. I would be very surprised if Pine Valley's judgment was about health insurers. I don't think so. So let us be clear that it is important that we test it, precisely because of this kind of one-two about an opinion. No, it's about legislation. It must be fundamentally true, it must be good, and we must look closely at the scope for society. I'd like to, once again, lance for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u229	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for the answer. My group notes that the protests against the initiative of at least one health insurance company have clarified that some of the health insurance companies are preparing to spend profits on matters other than reduction of premiums and better quality of care. My group finds it painful to see that this was both denied and confirmed in one week. As far as we are concerned, this also calls into question the legitimacy of an organisation like Zorgverzekerings Nederland. The Labour Party notes that the rebuttal of care in the event of an accident has meant an important turn of events. I am therefore pleased that the initiators, on the basis of the sub-budgets available to them, managed to remove this sting from the discussion. I understand from the answer given by the Minister that this is not impossible either by the Dutch Bank. No one has denied that we are talking about a complex matter, but it is certainly also ideologically charged. The Labour Party is not in favour of profit distribution and adverse shareholder behaviour, which, in our opinion, does not fit in with the public interest. That brings me to my last point, namely that the Labour Party will support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u230	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors for their reply to this very important bill. This bill is about making the distribution of profits to third parties permanently impossible when it comes to care. It is also about trust in the healthcare system and in health insurers. It is remarkable that while this law has been under discussion for a long time, it was only at the eleventh hour that Achmea stirred the drum in particular. And who's in charge of Achmea? The first man of Achmea has an income of 1.46 million, the second an income of 1.17 million, and so on. They're all people with very high incomes. This in turn raises the question of what inspires these people to launch an attack on this law at the eleventh hour. I can't really understand why this happened at the 11th hour. In my opinion, all the questions that have been asked are well discussed and it is very clear that what the proposers want, can and would be very good. I'll come back to that trust one more time. I'd like to quote Trouw in this. That's not something I do here every day, but it's important now. In a comment Trouw writes: "That is why it makes sense for health insurance companies to embrace the permanent ban on the distribution of profits, which is now regulated by majority by the Lower House. Then there can be no doubt about their intentions. They are then primarily concerned with the patient and not with the money." I think we can all take this point very seriously. The health care system should not be about the money but about the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u231	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I note that the authors can reply immediately. Howdy for that speed. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u232	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the answer of my colleagues Bouwmeester and Bruins Slot and myself has fallen well in this Chamber today. Thank you for your kind words about that, too. I would also like to ask Mr Koolmees and Mr Rutte, who have asked for a more detailed examination, for three motions to be tabled, each in a different form, to explain how we have worked. We have already argued extensively that it was not a surprise. A motion has already been tabled in 2013, which did not make it at the time. In 2015, an amendment did make it. The Minister asked for legal advice on this matter. At that time, it decided not to make the ban on distribution of profits permanent, but to extend it every two years. That legal advice, which the Minister sent to the Chamber at the time, has been the starting point for us. We have analysed the weaknesses in the amendment, for example, the possibility of expropriation or the return of reserves to the state treasury. So we didn't include it in the bill. We have put forward the legislative proposal as well as possible. The Council of State's opinion was then followed. We have analysed this well and provided an answer. We have even amended our legislative proposal in response to the opinion of the Council of State. Then we discussed with the Chamber in two rounds in writing. We have clarified and explained matters. In this debate we were able to give a further explanation. Fortunately, in this treatment we have concerns about the excess deposits of Achmea and a.s.r. to be taken away. Mr Rutte says that they have not been taken away, but this is public information. We have discussed this extensively with tax lawyers in recent days. We have tested everything and it is true; so the existing way in which you can get back the increase in value of a share. There is a request from Mr Koolmees and Mr Rutte, expressed in the motion on item No. 16, to have an execution test carried out by the Nederlandsche Bank. We have argued extensively why we say that solvency is as the solvency requirements are. There is currently no problem with capital among health insurance companies. They have reserves. The possibilities for agio-refunds are already there. They do not need to be tested by the Dutch Bank. The motion will be put to the vote, but as far as the proposers are concerned, this examination is not necessary. So this motion was really a request to the authors. Mr Rutte's motions concern two requests to the government. In the end, we are not dealing with this, but it says: 'in coordination with the initiators'. So let me say what we think. It makes it more complete to ask for advice from the Dutch Healthcare Authority, I say to Mr Rutte. However, we also believe that it is superfluous. We are asking for a future forecast, whereas we are maintaining the current situation of a ban on profit distribution. Another question was to ask for a legal second opinion together with the national attorney. In its nature, that is not possible, because the state attorney is the government's legal adviser. Parliament has its own parliamentary lawyer. Should the author put this motion to the vote in the hope that it will be adopted, he will at least have to amend it. The applicants are not waiting for these further analyses. The advice of the adviser on behalf of the government, the minister, shows that the views of the proposers and the minister on the system and its functioning are clearly different. Is it a huge change in the system? No. On the contrary, we argue that it would lead to a change in the system if a third interest were introduced as of 1 January 2018, namely a shareholder whose only interest is in return. These arguments have changed endlessly. A profit distribution makes more market of care. On the contrary, the proposers want to reduce the market in healthcare. There indeed separate the paths of the proposers and the minister. We have explained extensively on several fronts that this is not a system change: in response to the opinion of the Council of State, to the sensible questions that the Chamber has put to us in writing and today. Mrs Bruins Slot has also dismissed and refuted the legal complications that would arise. Yes, every individual, every company and every organization in our country is free to go to court if he feels disadvantaged by legislation. We live in a rule of law. Whether the health insurance companies will be successful in this, we will see in court. Until last night, they argued, including the dome of health insurance companies, that they are not looking for profit distributions. I thank the Chamber for its broad support for the bill. I recognize the support that exists in society. People see that premium money is precious to pay and that it is not appropriate to pay it to a shareholder. I think it is a good thing that we, as politicians, show that we can get our hands together and capture the noise from society in legislation. I thank our supporters, who are here. In the background there have certainly been more people busy, not least the employees of Bureau Legislation. I thank them, too. I would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation. I look forward to voting next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u233	I give the Minister the floor briefly for a second opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u234	Mr. Chairman. I shall proceed immediately to the motions addressed to the government. With the motion-Keijzer c.s. in piece No. 14 the Government is invited to have the Dutch authorities examine how annual accounts can be made public. The annual accounts of risk carriers are already public, so the motion is superfluous. That's why I don't recommend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u235	In short, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u236	It is precisely the intention that the annual accounts of all individual health insurers should be made public. Does the Minister also shave them under "risk carriers"? As a result of the discussion on the legislative proposal, we have found out what is going on under the flag of the great four, let me just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u237	The annual accounts requested here are public. If Mrs Keijzer means anything else, she should amend the motion to make it clear what she means by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u238	Well, we'll have some contact with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u239	In Mrs Keijzer's motion to item No. 15 calls on the government to come forward with proposals to ban benefits in outpatient long-term care. I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u240	Is there a reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u241	We should have a debate on that. It's about attracting money to strengthen equity. In itself, that can be very good for providers. They thus gain a more stable position and are less dependent on banks to which they have to pay interest on loans. I took part in that. In fact, we have all dealt with this in relation to the legislative proposal on medical-specialist care. That bill is currently in the Upper House; there will be another novelle. At the time, there was a wide-ranging exchange of views. In the motion in part No. Mr Koolmees and Mr Rutte made a request to the authors. The motion in part No. 17 by Mrs Dik-Faber is superfluous, because the NZa already supervises risk selection and acceptance of basic insurance. I do not wish to give rise to the suggestion that this is not being done. Therefore, I advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 18 Mr Rutte asked the government to consult the Dutch Healthcare Authority together and in coordination with the initiators. On the question of whether there is a need for this, I leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 19 Mr Rutte asks the same question, but then about the lawyer. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u242	This brings us to the end of this debate. It worked out in time anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-4.u243	I thank the authors, because it is a huge job to make and defend such a bill, as I know from my own experience. Thanks also for the speedy response in the second term. Greetings for that, also to their supporters. It's a special moment. I thank the Minister for the advice. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the fact that we have managed to complete this difficult subject in good time. The votes are next Tuesday.
