ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State. We have no less than ten speakers from the Chamber, each with four minutes speaking time. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Geurts of the CDA Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There are enormous concerns at many dairy farmers' kitchen tables. Concern about what another change of policy means to their business. Concerns about the following changes and their effects on their families and their businesses. Worrying about which cows should go. It does what to people when told from the government that you have to say goodbye to your animals, your property, for which you take care. I understand these concerns and the uncertainty, especially when you look at the increasingly smaller group of dairy farmers for whom the burden is increasing. Those burdens are further increased by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Most dairy farmers see and want joint action to be taken to preserve the derogation. But what undermines this and what causes great tension within the sector are the misjudgements of the Secretary of State. First, the Phosphate Rights Act, which could not be introduced as of 1 January 2017, was due to too late and too little action. Then there's the sequence of emergency handles. First, the reference had to be adjusted for non-milk-producing companies, then all non-milk-producing companies had to leave the plan after legal examination. The CDA is pleased that meat cattle are no longer part of the plan. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he treats beef cattle, but especially the rare Dutch cattle breeds, under the Phosphate Rights Act 2018 in respect of female calves? Another wrong estimate is the young cattle number, a number which in any case does not take sufficient account of the practice. Can the Secretary of State explain to us the arrangement of the young cattle number? When's the change coming? If I've thrown away all my young cattle as a farmer and I want to get rid of more young cattle, should I also get rid of cows? When will there be a solution for the farms with many pregnant heifers? On 1 December 2016, there were some 42,300 livestock units more than in 2015. Pinks and heifers become cows. Doesn't that mean a jump to 90,000 livestock units? Was this included in the calculations? I shall now come to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. I wonder, with many people, whether this arrangement is legally sustainable in appeal. Is Article 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights sufficiently taken into account, as the Council of State pointed out by the Phosphate Rights Act? What could be the consequences if the State loses its appeal, including financially? Who's gonna pay for that? What about the implementation of the scheme at the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland, the RVO? Is everything on schedule? Does everyone know his references? Does the RVO have everything in order to facilitate correct fines if necessary? Is there sufficient coordination between EZ and the RVO so that necessary changes in the system can be implemented soon? The CDA welcomes the fact that there has now been an emergency committee set up. I wish the appointed committee members a great deal of wisdom and ask them to carry out their duties quickly but carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	I am missing an important point in Mr Geurts' contribution, especially as a farmer and perhaps as an ex-farmer. Why do we have a phosphate reduction plan? For the people at home who do not know: phosphate is a primary life requirement, among other things to bind oxygen. It is indispensable for humans and animals. Why do we have a phosphate reduction plan, when the Chinese no longer supply us with their own people first; that should have been said by the PVV and the Moroccan mines are exhausted? Why are we going to reduce phosphates?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	We also had the opportunity to hold this debate in December. I think Mr Graus was walking around in boots, so he will remember that. The point is that agreements have been made with Europe, with Brussels. I think that was in 2000 or 2001 and under Brinkhorst's rule. Those appointments have never been changed over time. At that time we also did not know that manure could be processed and processed. I know Mr Graus's commitment to maintaining and regaining phosphate. That support, as far as he needed it, has always been given to each other in this respect. But it's just been agreed. During the derogation negotiations under then Secretary of State Dijksma, the Chamber did not make any adjustments. So we're just dealing with it. I know that the PVV does not have much to do with Europe, at least with Brussels and its legislation, but we are dealing with this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	First of all, I want to correct something. The PVV has everything with Europe. We are pro-Europe, but we are against the European Union. We do not want to become a province of Brussels, where Brussels will decide what to do with phosphates, with the brown gold, the manure, where you can make building materials and energy materials. We will not be forced to do so. That's the point. The CDA was always pro European Union. They've turned a little bit towards us in recent years, because they see that entrepreneurs are in trouble. But why doesn't Mr Geurts help me with his rather large CDA to undo this and say: Brussels, thick nose, look at it, we're about our entrepreneurs, we're about our manure and phosphates and you can go down the tree? We must return to economic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	There is now a consultation on the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. We have recently had a technical briefing from the PBL on this. If Mr Graus has followed that remotely, he has seen that we are very critical on this point, at least on the report. There is also the basis, the foundation for agreements on the new derogation, which I believe should be granted to the Netherlands. We just disagree with the PVV Group. We are of the opinion and we think that the judge in the Netherlands also thinks that we should simply comply with the agreements. There is nothing we can do about that, but if Mr Graus has good ideas for improving the commitment to the Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive, then I will certainly listen to him very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Geurts talks about compensation, including as a result of the judge's ruling. However, I can only hear him mention financial compensation. But there is also another route, namely that you compensate for rights and that you grant more rights to the troubles. The big question then is where this space should come from. What I wouldn't want is to ask Mr Geurts how he stands about it. If you do it by that physical route, shouldn't you do it through, for example, netting of exports of phosphate to low-phosphate countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	I think that when it comes to the debate on netting and the like, the SGP Group and the CDA Group do not differ. I mentioned in the debate in December the example of the fire engine in the showroom. We'd like to have them both. Back then, it had no crew, no license plate, and so on. But maybe that fire truck can do a little bit more right now. I also followed the debate in the First Chamber this week. There your party colleague also asked this question to Secretary of State Van Dam. I think the Secretary of State said something like, "I can't get the rights out of my pocket." This has been translated freely into Geurts. I think that's true. So we also need to look very closely, when we get this far, how we can handle it smartly, so that we can help the companies that are now very badly affected by the increasing number of people, as they call it, getting hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's clear for two-thirds. But it must not be the case that companies that are already being cut down by the generic discount are severely reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	I have just tried to explain that we do not yet know what the additional discounts will be. Those figures are not yet officially known. I am certainly open to considering how we can spare companies that are extremely affected, as I have always pointed out in the December debates. But I still lack a number of parameters in order to be able to give a balanced assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	In this house, colleagues sometimes help each other by asking supplementary questions so that someone gets a little more time. I'm not in that category. I'm not going to help Mr Geurts. What struck me in the CDA's plea just now was the criticism of the Secretary of State. That is right, because the Secretary of State is ultimately responsible. However, given the origin of the situation, it might not have been the desire of the sector organisations, LTO and the Dutch Dairy Organisation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These organisations wanted dairy farming to grow unbridled. The CDA was fine with that. The CDA has turned that wish into a one-on-one policy. Now it's a mess. The industry has to solve this mess on its own. That's what's in store here. The Secretary of State does not really do much other than convert the plans of the sector into legal policy. Where is the CDA's reflection on his responsibility for this debacle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mrs Ouwehand did not want to give me extra speaking time, but I see that she has helped herself to do so. I think she's already done a third of her input. It is far too early to make an assessment of this whole thing. Mrs Ouwehand blames the CDA for everything, but 20 years ago it has already been decided to remove the milk quota. Anyone who looks closely will see that Secretary of State Bleker has already said: 'Dear people, keep an eye on your case; what will the sector do with this?' Putting everything on the shoulders of the CDA is a great honor to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	I can reassure Mr Geurts that this question applies to all the parties who, I predict, will be holding the same string today. Criticism, however, of the Secretary of State, but not of himself and taking responsibility for his own policy. Only SP and GroenLinks, together with the Animal Party, have always opposed this policy. So I think it's really cheap to say it's too early for reflection. It has been the sector plans that the CDA has always brought one-on-one into this Chamber. It is the sector plans that are now being criticised. If you're critical, if you're right to say that we shouldn't want farmers to be in uncertainty, then you have to draw a conclusion from the wisdom of that route, from leaving it to the sector? We can see that the individual farmers at those kitchen tables, about whom Mr Geurts just spoke with tears in his eyes, are the victims. Will Mr Geurts not stand up for those farmers? He's just gonna leave it with the old policy and the same song, when we're here to see what the result is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yet Mrs Ouwehand is in the wrong groove of the album. Mrs Ouwehand, you are blaming the CDA, but on the basis of what I have read in the media about your contribution, I assume that it has been quoted correctly. You favour the biological sector by saying that we should not take it up for the current sector but for this sector. I think the CDA has always tried to find a way through that. I agree that this has not always been possible, but we have made the most of it. The reproach, or perhaps the compliment, I don't know how to interpret that exactly, of yours...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	From Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr President, I will try to delete the word 'you' today. If you've looked closely, the sector was...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	I've looked very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	Yeah, that's why. If Mrs Ouwehand had listened very carefully to the discussion and looked at the report, she would have known that the CDA has also done things that really did not please LTO and other representatives of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	Very good. I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	I will continue on this subject, but I will go to the recent story. There's a phosphate reduction plan. You're very critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Geurts is very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Geurts is very critical of this. I share this criticism with him to a large extent, but I do notice that he puts the ball in his contribution fully with the Secretary of State. The essence of the phosphate reduction plan was that it was a plan from the sector. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that all this uncertainty at the kitchen tables is to a large extent due to their own umbrella and sector organisations, because two changes had to be made in a row and there was also a change to be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	If Mr Grashoff means that LTO and other organisations, such as NMV, NajK and NZO, should have done better in preparing for the cabinet, I think Mr Grashoff has a point, but I am not involved in all these talks myself. The only thing I can build on is letters from the cabinet and a ministerial arrangement that was simply made under the responsibility of the cabinet. So I say to Mr Grashoff that I cannot address any other person in this Chamber through the Secretary of State. If Mr Grashoff knows a route for that, I am happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	This route can be discussed here, for example with this interruption, among other things. I am pleased that Mr Geurts agrees with me that there is also an important responsibility for the sector organisations and that there was a plan in line with those sector organisations that does not seem to work. I think it would be very important for these organisations to consider the role they actually play and the way in which they have been looking after the interests of their constituents for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	I don't hear a question right away, more like an opinion. Perhaps we can translate the opinion and pass it on to the Secretary of State as a question: how did that young cattle number come about? Would the Secretary of State like to give the Chamber more insight into this? After all, there is a lot of fuss about that now. That is why I have just asked whether the Secretary of State could explain to me and to us this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	Very good. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	I would like to ask Mr Geurts as a follow-up. It is likely that the Secretary of State will soon say that he is doing what the sector wants and that it has always been his policy to transpose into legislation what the sector wants. Is it not at the heart of the problem at the moment that the sector is so divided internally and that there are so many different voices that you can no longer speak of 'a voice from the sector' and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to make clear policies on the basis of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Futselaar's reaction is that the Secretary of State does what the sector wants without a care. The Secretary of State himself will have to respond to that, but on the basis of my observation from the side and also from my responsibility as a Member of Parliament and as a representative of the people, I do not feel that the Secretary of State is simply doing what the sector wants. I experienced the evenings myself in Zwolle and also in the south. Well, it didn't really come out that the Secretary of State was just doing what the sector wanted. On that basis, therefore, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	I will be more specific, because I cannot ask Mr Geurts to speak for the Secretary of State. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that the sector is so divided that it is almost impossible for us as representatives of the people to get a clear wish out of it, except perhaps that the derogation should be granted? Furthermore, there are now a lot of interests against each other. I would also point out to Mr Geurts that one of the farmers who went to court was, in fact, a local LTO director, to show just how divided that sector is. Then you can no longer say that there is one sound from that sector that we could listen to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	If Mr Futselaar means by this question whether Mr Geurts is surprised that there are so many interest groups in dairy farming, the answer is yes. When I entered this Chamber, I thought there were a LTO, a Dutch dairy farmers union, a NajK and possibly another NZO, but after that many more groups were formed. I sometimes see the same people appear in other groups. So I can confirm that division. If we have to send a signal to the sector, that is: take a good look at that too. After all, the House of Representatives sees the question put here that the presence of so many clubs of interest leads to confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr President, for this second opportunity. I missed one thing in Mr Geurts' contribution, something that was in it before, namely the alignment with the 2017-2018 bottleneck regime. Mr Geurts has also tabled a motion on this subject, which has been adopted. I do not hear him on this at the moment, but I assume he still thinks that this scheme and the phosphate reduction plan should be coordinated, so that we do not have to dispose of cows now, while cows may be added in 2018 through the bottleneck control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	I would like to say the following to Mr Dijkgraaf. I read in the letter that that motion cannot be carried out. I have looked into it and I understand, given the mandate given to the Commission, that this cannot be done. We have also been so far in time that I think it is becoming increasingly difficult to carry out that motion. If Mr Dijkgraaf sees another possibility, I would like to talk to him about it. Maybe we can find a way out of that in the second term. However, I have not yet been able to find them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	I'd like that. Is this enough, Mr Dijkgraaf? It is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	Talking to Mr. Geurts is always a pleasure. We talk all the time. But it is also up to the Commission. So with a customized assignment, you could do it, couldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	The judgment of the President of the Court of First Instance, against which the State Secretary appeals, was passed. If you compare that statement to our motion, it's gonna be a little problematic to carry out that motion. I can understand that by myself. But, again, if we can find a way, we're gonna find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	I have a question at the same time. I have also received motions for resolutions on the problem regulation. I have also co-signed Mr Geurts' motion. It is true that the Secretary of State refuses to align the law and the plan on the issue of a problem regulation, whereas the Chamber, Mr Geurts and I, with the support of a majority, have always said: "Don't make that distinction and let's not let it fall down now, which would be helped by next year's legislation." That distinction has to go away, doesn't it? Surely Mr Geurts agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr Geurts agrees with Mrs Dik-Faber. We have four minutes' speaking time. I have made the choice not to make a harsh point of this at the moment, in the expectation that other colleagues will do so and that we will get the answer from the Secretary of State. We also have a second deadline and we also have interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's right. I will certainly deal with this in my own term. Let's wait for the Secretary of State's response and work together for a good deal of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	Very good. This is a cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. Why don't we just trade in the peasant trick for the farmers' sense? Nothing is as it seems in the phosphate debate, as the chief editor of Boerderij said a while ago. And that's right. We stood here in December to discuss the sector's phosphate reduction plans, which were needed because a vast majority of the Chamber, not the SP and GroenLinks, was fine with the milk quota going off. D66 didn't think that for a while, but she also agreed to the unbridled growth of dairy farming. And we were warned of the consequences. And even if it wasn't, it's been the wisdom for about 200 years that, if you let everyone go ahead, individuals end up getting in trouble. We have the task of safeguarding and protecting the collective interest. So we knew that leaving the business to the sector itself, as LTO and the Dutch Dairy Organisation very much wanted, would cause problems for the individual farmer. The sector is in great confusion because its representatives did not have the courage to be honest and to say "boys, if we want everything, the people get in trouble" and because the House of Representatives did not have the courage to act wisely in the absence of the courage of the sector organisations themselves. Dutch farmers are allowed to drive more manure on the land than farmers in other European Member States. That's what it's all about. It's called a derogation. There's one condition. Brussels says that we need to ensure that our total manure production does not exceed that already well over 172 million kilos from 2002. Because the milk quota has been released and because this Chamber felt that everyone should be able to grow, that has of course happened. And so now the peasants are in deep trouble. I really wonder when the moment will come when we will no longer be implementing the policies of the sector organisations. I also wonder where the self-reflection is. That is what I am asking all the spokesmen in this regard. The criticism of the Secretary of State is justified, because he is ultimately responsible, but the problems that have arisen are not a good solution. It's such a big mess. However, the judge's ruling must be taken seriously. We have warned against this. It's two things. One thing we find very annoying, but it is a fact. We have already warned against those big growers whose judge would say: in view of the company security and the legal certainty that you have to offer entrepreneurs, they are simply right. The cost of this is up to 1 billion, as is now estimated. That is 1 billion out of the state treasury to compensate those entrepreneurs, because we are thus blocking it here, and I would point out to everyone, except the SP, GroenLinks and the Animal Party to make sound policies. 1 billion: who's gonna pay for that, Mrs. Lodders? And then there's the organic farmers. They shall not make use of the derogation. They also have no share in the phosphate surplus, as they always have enough land to drive their own manure. The judge rightly said that they do not have to solve the problems of the big growers. The Secretary of State therefore appeals, but the Party for Animals wants an exemption, because it is unlawful and we expect it to prove unlawful in the appeal brought by the Secretary of State. We want the Secretary of State to do everything possible to prevent the slaughter of healthy animals, an import stop for cows and calves and an insemination stop. We want the Secretary of State to look ahead to the loss of the derogation, which is indeed in view of the judge's ruling and the conditions imposed by the nitrate committee on the derogation, namely that there is consensus and acceptance. Only 30% of dairy farmers are in favour of this phosphate reduction plan. What's gonna happen? What's it gonna cost? And can the Secretary of State say he won't let the animals bleed for the failure of The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	I object to this, because Mrs Ouwehand does not mention the Party for Freedom. We were the only party that wanted to prevent this. We have been fatal against this since 2006. The Party for Animals was also before this. So also the Animal Party and other parties you mentioned are guilty of killing healthy animals instantly. You're talking about unbridled growth and how you resist it. For this reason, we have supported a moratorium on, for example, the construction of mega-stables. We're against mega-stables. We are for small family and family farms, in which the cows can still get grazing. So the story is not true, Mr President. I want things to work out in the Acts. We have been the only party that has wanted to prevent what is happening now. No party supported us for ten and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	I am very pleased with the Party's support for freedom for grazing for all cows. I think that is going to be the breaking point for a healthy dairy farming in all respects for the future. But when we look back, unfortunately, it is true that the PVV supported the abandonment of the milk quota, as did the proposals from the cabinet, driven by Mrs Lodders, to allow dairy farming to grow unbridled. As a result, individual farmers and, above all, animals are getting into trouble. There must be 160,000 to the slaughter, if there aren't 200,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	I believe that almost the entire Chamber is opposed to healthy animals going to slaughter. I can't imagine there's one colleague for that. I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	But that is the result of the choices...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Graus has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	We wanted to prevent this. We have said: we must not start; we must now really draw our own line. We have foretold the misery. What I have done to prevent unbridled growth is that I have often supported you and other parties in favour of a moratorium on mega stables for grazing. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	That's what Mrs Ouwehand herself says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	Let me get this straight. This is a very sensitive subject, including in the country. I am also opposed to this on behalf of my group. The release of the milk quota has to do with the fact that we say: Brussels get off our back; stay out of it; we decide that. That was a completely different decision, but that does not mean that we are in favour of unbridled growth. You can't just link that up like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	I would like to believe Mr Graus when he says that he does not want those animals to go to slaughter. But it is the result of the choices made by his party. I can make him a suggestion. If he really wants the animals in livestock farming to get better, then he must never again majority with CDA or VVD. Really, don't do it anymore! This also applies to the Christian Union and the SGP. Point your arrows at parties that believe that it must be improved both for the animals and for the farmers. Don't bother with the others. They didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	I have just listened to Mrs Ouwehand's contribution. Could it confirm that its contribution leads to a minimum of 70% reduction in dairy farming, and in the long term to 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	Yeah, that's the plan we advocate. The difference between the Party's plans for the Animals and the course of the CDA is that we put a dot on the horizon, considering all the preconditions. We want a good income model for farmers. This is now being destroyed because organic farmers, who did it reasonably, now have to bleed because of the CDA. We take into account all environmental conditions, which are simply harsh realities. We take into account the social movement that calls for more animal welfare. He's not leaving either. For the long term, if you look at everything, there is therefore a size of livestock that amounts to 70% of what it is now. That's what we're gonna do phasedly, with room for the farmers to switch. The same applies to the grazing motion we have received from the Chamber. We're going to do that in a way where entrepreneurs get the time they need to switch to that point. That's the difference between us and the CDA. The CDA just pushes things through and wants to get the best of it. Then individual farmers get the lid on the nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	It is clear that Mrs Ouwehand is committed to 100% rehabilitation and reduction of dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! No, that part's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr Geurts spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	That point is immediately clear. Mrs Ouwehand also spoke about the biological sector. How does she deal with organic farms that are not land-based? Because that group is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u58	We have already asked for an exception to this in the previous debate. I have to correct Mr Geurts. It is not about 100% disappearance of dairy farming. We are talking about 70% shrinkage of livestock. That is sensible in all respects. We want an exception for organic farmers who, according to the cabinet definition, are not ground-bound. In reality, they are, of course, because they have contracts with farmers. They always have enough ground to run their manure on. And I will say it again once again: they do not make use of the derogation that this whole operation is about. They don't have to bleed for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u59	I have not yet received a medal from the sector organisations because I always follow them nicely. On the contrary, we were against the abolition of the milk quota at the time and even voted against the Phosphate Rights Act. So Mrs. Ouwehand forgot to mention us. Mrs Ouwehand says that the biological companies did not cause the problems. But there are also growers among the organic companies, aren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u60	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u61	Which has led to extra phosphate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u63	So just saying that common companies have caused the problem and are the big growers, isn't it factually wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u64	Organic farms have grown and produce a little more manure. That is true, but they do not contribute to the phosphate surplus with which the problems have begun. They always have enough soil to run their manure on. On paper, the cabinet wants to move towards a slightly more sustainable livestock farming. Then it is not obvious to let the farmers who are doing well now, and who also have more potential in the market, bleed? We've had the petition. They said themselves that their earning model works, that they're doing well, but that they're getting their necks kicked because the big boys screwed up. You can't even blame the big boys, because this room left the entrepreneurs the room. The SGP was indeed partly responsible for this, because the motion that asked for the withdrawal of the AMvB did not support the SGP. The SGP has therefore simply supported the expansion of the dairy herd. If they then use the space to grow without feeling responsible for what that means to the whole sector in total and for that one farmer who has to bleed for it, the SGP has facilitated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u65	Politically speaking, I get it, but from a constitutional point of view, it's not for a millimeter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u66	Oh, I'm laughing at...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u67	I call Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mrs. Ouwehand, you are so impatient today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u69	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mrs. Ouwehand is impatient and you are quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u71	I'm just asking another question. She can answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u72	Well, bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u73	Those circular decisions, I agree. Groundboundness: beautiful. We have also put forward proposals for farmers, that circle around them: beautiful. But that can't mean that you common farmers who just did exactly what the policy, the law, could, with the knowledge of afterwards, punish? Don't you have to treat him justly? The judge's ruling isn't here for nothing, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yeah, and that's the joke. I said: we do not think that is funny at all, but we also warned that this would be the case, namely that these entrepreneurs are in their right. Then we are talking about state law. Where was the SGP with its prediction that that would cost the state treasury a lot of money? $1 billion, huh? 1 billion, because the SGP cooperated with that ambiguity, which gives entrepreneurs the full right to say: I have not been able to foresee this and I demand compensation. How are you going to explain that to the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u75	I am increasingly surprised to hear Mrs Ouwehand's speech. There are a lot of gaps in her speech. Well, it happens all the time. In fact, it would adorn the Party of Animals just to lay down a clear vision. When Mrs Ouwehand talks about a 70% reduction in livestock farming, about an insemination stop, what does that mean for all animals? If Mrs Ouwehand really has the environment high, then we should shape innovations. Mr President, I will be for your sake and not ask long questions. I note that the Animal Party does not really have a substantive view of livestock farming here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u76	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u77	Yes, but Mrs Lodder asked me what this means for the animals, and I think that is a good question. An insemination stop means that a cow is no longer pregnant and therefore does not like a calf that is taken away from her within a day. This also means that the cow should not go to slaughter if it turns out that we were not below that phosphate ceiling. So that saves a lot of animal suffering. Mrs Lodders is well aware of my party's vision, but she simply does not like the fact that, with respect for the investments that farmers have already made, we have to work towards a livestock that is 70% smaller than today. This can be done without sending animals to slaughter prematurely, but simply by stopping breeding so many animals. An animal that hasn't been bred doesn't have to go to the slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr. Chairman. I certainly do not like the reduction proposed by Mrs Ouwehand, because with her plans we can ban the entire Dutch livestock sector. I will confine myself to the phosphate reduction plan 2017. That is what this debate is about. The Dutch dairy farmers are in great uncertainty and have to do with a lot of uncertainty. The phosphate reduction plan drawn up by the sector and adopted by the State Secretary should lead to the Dutch dairy farming producing in 2017 under the phosphate ceiling agreed with Brussels. This is important in the context of the derogation. Many farmers have made an effort in recent years to contribute to the reduction. Thanks to these efforts, which have been congratulated, good results have already been achieved. Can the Secretary of State give the current state of play on the reduction? However, today's debate will be dominated by the lack of clarity and uncertainty and by many questions which cause great concern to farmers. The phosphate regime was drawn up by several sector parties involved in this dossier, and the State Secretary. I have to say that I find the quality of the scheme, and therefore the consequences and the lack of clarity for the sector, to be inadequate. I believe that the sector parties concerned, as well as the Secretary of State, should take this into account. Farmers depend on the commitment of their representatives and the commitment of the Ministry. They must be able to trust that representatives are taking the right steps. You can't saddle your constituents with something the consequences of which haven't been thought out. A mistake can be made, but the scheme has already been amended three times. That feels like changing the rules during the game. It doesn't just feel like it, it does. How can the farmer anticipate this? The direction seems to be lost. What does the Secretary of State think of this and what is his role in this? How's he gonna clear up in the next few weeks? Perhaps he could also comment on the question of how this happened? I have to limit myself to a number of points because of the time. Much concern and emotion have been caused by incomplete, sometimes deviant or incorrect registration at RVO. Can the Secretary of State comment on the state of play? Does everyone have any clarity as to whether their complaint has been dealt with? Can the Secretary of State indicate that the fines will not be collected if the objection has not yet been settled? Of course, the employees of RVO are doing their utmost to serve the farmers as best they can, but shouldn't they have been anticipated earlier? Then the young cattle number that was introduced at the last change and that leads to some unwanted effects. Farmers who have left cows and have kept less young cattle in the past period are now confronted with the introduction of the young cattle number because of the natural course within the farm. This means that farms will have to dispose of additional dairy cows, which is very undesirable. Is the Secretary of State prepared to change the young cattle number? I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm that this time he may also have a number of practitioners assessing the scheme before it is published. Finally, I would like to consider the judge's ruling. On 4 May, the judge delivered a judgment in a number of cases. It is now clear that a number of farmers appeal as well as the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State indicate what this process will look like in time? Apart from the appeal, on behalf of my group, I am concerned about the situation we are now in. From my contacts I can see that similar issues have now been raised at RVO. Can the Secretary of State provide an overview of this? As the State Secretary has included the scheme as a ministerial scheme, there will be farmers in a similar situation to farmers who have already disposed of animals and then submit a claim for damages. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. My group is also concerned because with the statement before us that the phosphate reduction plan for groups of entrepreneurs is off the table, the reduction by an ever smaller group has to be achieved. This will certainly have an impact on the law that will enter into force from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u79	Same question as the CDA. The criticism of the Secretary of State is justified. There are farmers in uncertainty and all these changes are not convenient, but it is a plan of the sector and that plan is there because the earlier plan of the sector to just grow hoppakee was facilitated by this Chamber, including the fraction of the VVD. I believe that the VVD was the most in favour of this. I would therefore consider it appropriate to reflect on this or draw conclusions on the role of the sector organisations and what that means for our policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u80	I started by saying that today I am restricting myself to the phosphate reduction plan. Why? We debated these issues at the end of last year until 18 minutes at night. I said very emphatically at the time, and my group continues to support it, and we believe that there is room for Dutch dairy farming, provided that we ensure that innovations are also given a place. This has also been changed in an interrupting debate between Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It would be a credit to Mrs Ouwehand if the Animal Party, too, had a very high regard for the environment, which I very much appreciate. It is crazy that we produce fertilizer and cannot use animal manure as a mineral concentrate. That's just one example. For the sake of time, I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u81	For the viewers at home, let me summarize: the VVD has asked for this policy. Now this policy leads to all sorts of situations, but, according to the VVD, we are not going to talk about that and, moreover, we are not responsible either, because we think innovation is important. Beautiful man!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u82	No, we are having a debate today on the phosphate reduction plan, which is causing enormous concern to individual farmers because they cannot anticipate what is ahead of us. The rules of the game are being changed. We have discussed this in detail. The Party for Animals and the VVD have a different view. And indeed, the VVD stands for space for innovation and sustainable development. That is what we want to focus our policy on. I note that the Labour Party, excuse, the Animal Party, is not cooperating in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u83	How does Mrs Lodder look back on the unbiased release of the milk quota? That was the issue. The VVD supported this. Mrs Lodders makes all kinds of comments about conditions, innovation and so on, but no conditions have been set. The VVD has also made no proposals to actually bomb it into conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u84	We had that debate at the end of last year, in December. That's what I said. Looking back and forth, we should have had the discussion much earlier about releasing the phosphate production ceiling. We need to ensure that we can carry out the innovations so that we can use the mineral concentrate instead of having to buy fertilizer for a long time. We have to make sure that I am looking at Mr Graus, who has also been talking about the fact that we can extract phosphate from animal manure and use it. For example, there are a number of innovations. We started it too late. Fortunately, this cabinet, I would say, has taken this aspect of innovation into account in the derogation negotiations in particular, in the Sixth Action Programme. Second best is the salad. These are all important issues, but the debate on them has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u85	If I understand correctly, I am now detecting the milk quota and that is for the first time a certain reflection at the VVD on the unbiased release of the milk quota and the lack of a timely administrative response to it. I think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u86	We really had that debate in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u87	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u88	Then I pointed the exact same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u89	Fine, thank you. We're gonna listen to Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. There is talk of disappointment, anger, impotence and uncertainty among dairy farmers in the Netherlands. Many farmers understand that everyone has to contribute. Maintaining the derogation is important, for example for our family businesses, our Dutch economy, but also for the preservation of valuable landscape and grassland. However, if conditions change every week, implementation is chaotic and well-intentioned farmers face fines and even harder blows to their family business, the sector's ability to take over seems to have reached a critical limit. The big question is, who's in charge? The Secretary of State said in general consultation last week a few times that the phosphate reduction plan is an initiative of the industry itself to lift the excess of the phosphate ceiling. He said he only supports this with financial and legal means. Since 2015 we know that a strong plan and a strong direction are needed to maintain dairy farming in the Netherlands. Then a ruler shouldn't be an extra, right? In addition, the Secretary of State must fight in Brussels to bring in the derogation for Dutch farmers. Does he? What road map does he have in mind? What steps is he going to take? The core of the story is that dairy farmers must suffer, with the aim of maintaining the derogation. On that point, however, there is still zero certainty. I read in the cabinet letter that at the end of March the European Commission did not want to raise a presentation from the Netherlands on the environmental results that should lead to the new derogation. The Secretary of State hopes that the Commission and other Member States will have confidence in the Dutch measures, but all in all it gives little confidence in a successful outcome and certainly no certainty. So far, the Secretary of State has always returned empty-handed. Why has he not been able to produce visible results in the Nitrates Committee at the end of March, especially when phosphate production has been shown to decline? When does he expect to come back from Brussels with results? Meanwhile, the Secretary of State has been flagged back by the judge and is now appealing against the judgment. But would it not be better for him to look into the background of the ruling, namely that many companies are hit disproportionately hard? The decision is in line with our call to avoid any problems, as laid down in Mr Geurts' amendment, which I have signed with him. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, in the short term, there will be a real bottleneck committee to deal with individual issues, in line with the amendment and some of the motions adopted. Not a committee that only decides on next year's legislation, because if it does not deal with problems in this year's reduction plan, these problems will no longer exist next year. Is the Secretary of State prepared not to separate bottlenecks in 2017 from bottlenecks in 2018? In order to avoid meat farms, the scheme has been amended twice in a short period of time. The Christian Union welcomes the fact that the meat sector is excluded and that the rare cattle breeds are also taken into account, but what is their position in the law that will enter into force next year? Why does the Secretary of State allow the young cattle number that is so much commotion about to apply not only to companies that have actually relocated young cattle to Dutch companies? Last week, I asked for an answer to this question. I have not yet received an answer to what the Secretary of State thinks of the solution of the Dutch Agricultural Youth Contact to work with different animal codes for young cattle for dairy farming and for meat production. That too could help. Now we're talking about words like stopping, skimming and chasing. The Christian Union wants to give the sector the space to take the step towards the future. We call on the sector, in more harmony than it has shown so far, to come up with a future plan in which dairy farming develops land-based and in regional circles and also recognises societal challenges, such as climate change and biodiversity. We ask the government to be an ally to the sector. No longer a accumulation of laws and regulations and a focus on measures but on targets. The Christian Union wants our young farmers to have a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u91	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber's appeal has been taken from my heart. Does she agree, however, that such a vision of the future of this sector cannot be left at all to the sector, given all the experience of recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think Mr Grashoff really has a point here. When I see what has happened in recent years, the sector is actually left to its own devices. I call LTO with a divided constituency, also internally divided. I am also talking about large dairy cooperatives where farmers no longer have a real say and banks that have certain interests. In the Lower House there is a divided coalition; VVD and Party of Labour are on the theme of agriculture far apart. The sector has thus really suffered from internal division and division in other organisations, not least the House of Representatives. I would very much like to see the sector show more consensus and come up with a plan itself. I am convinced that there is also the strength of the sector there, that we should not talk about the sector, but that it itself should enter into the discussion internally, looking at what has happened in recent years, and that the sector itself should avoid the situation arising again that it is being decided upon. Take control of it yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u93	Again beautiful words, some of which I agree with, but isn't it a bit naive of Mrs Dik-Faber? That sector is incredibly divided and Mrs Dik-Faber and I are not going to solve it here. We can table a motion on this which would be supported massively and which states that the sector should be more united, but that does not yet make it. So isn't it the issue here that it should simply be concluded that the government should have a much clearer and clearer view of the future of agriculture, ground-based with regional cycles, which seems to me to be the right starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u94	I think that, precisely after what has happened in recent years, the situation in the sector has really changed and that the sector is aware of the situation that has now been put in place. The farmers know at the kitchen table: if nothing changes, this is just the end of my business. Farmers are well aware of this. Given the social context, I have good hope that the farmers will come out. I read a lot of agricultural newspapers. Organisations such as Friesland Campina, where you can find all kinds of things, are also aware of the situation and tending themes such as biodiversity, because they see it has to be different. I have faith and I don't want to give up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting the Secretary of State. The result counts and with 4.5 million kilos of phosphate we are in half of the target reduction. It was to be expected that individual entrepreneurs would go to court. However, the phosphate rights system will enter into force on 1 January 2018 and will apply to them as well. I really hope that the sector will have the solidarity to monitor the final objective of maintaining and extending the derogation. For now, it's about clarity and perspective. The farmers are entitled to that. In that connection, I have three points. Firstly, I read that almost all other categories of animals have grown their meat calves, other meat cattle, pigs, poultry, horses, ponies, sheep and goats. Do we have it in hand now or are we mopping with the tap open? Should we be introducing rights for other animal categories later? I know there was no majority in this House for this, but I think the European Commission will also ask this question. Is the Secretary of State going to announce a standstill in time with the sector for the species not yet regulated? Secondly, I have a question about the way in which the Secretary of State is going to set the discount rates for the third, fourth and fifth periods in order to reach the level of the total ceiling of 172.9 million kilos. If it's all right, the sector will be 87.4 million kilos by the end of this year. Up to the level at which the rights are distributed, there is still a hole of 2.5 million kilos of phosphate. Can the Secretary of State indicate the level of the additional generic discount introduced when the system is introduced? How does the Secretary of State intend to avoid unnecessary sales, disposal or slaughter during the transition from the reduction plan to the phosphate rights system? Thirdly, we are all doing it to preserve the derogation. When will the negotiations on the 2018 derogation begin? In the context of "governing is forward-looking": does the Secretary of State have a plan in his back pocket in case it fails? On the other hand, I wonder whether there is public money involved in the incentive scheme for low phosphorus pig feed. Finally, we are also here to learn lessons from the past. We are now putting everything on phosphate reduction, but it is no secret that we are out of line with ammonia reduction, regardless of the discussion about the method of calculation, and that there is a fine dust problem. We really need to avoid having to settle issue issues from the government and ultimately farmers will not see the whole forest through the rules. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on an instrument that will enable the sector itself to take steps to remain within environmental standards. I'm talking about making it universally binding. How does the Secretary of State view this with the knowledge of today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u96	I can hear Mr Groot in so many words...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u97	It's De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u98	Excuse me. I hear Mr De Groot in so many words in favour of intervention in other sectors. Can Mr De Groot reflect on that further? What exactly does he mean by that? That is what my second question is linked to. I know D66 as a party that looks at Europe in particular. How will Mr De Groot, also towards livestock farming in the Netherlands, express his vision at the time when we would limit it only to the Netherlands? Then we get an uneven playing field. I do not hear anything about the innovative possibilities either. I don't hear a single plea for that. Can Mr De Groot reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u99	This debate is about how the Netherlands complies with European rules. Europe has already given us considerable scope to take advantage of the advantage we have. That also brings with it a responsibility. That responsibility, as we have to observe, has not been taken so far. As a result, we now have a major problem in Brussels. The developments in the sector show that the animal categories I mentioned are growing very rapidly. As the European Commission, I should like to know what we are going to do about it. Are we now settling the subject for discussion, which means that it will become unworkable for farmers, so that all the innovations that Mrs Lodder is so proud of can no longer take place? Or are we going to get it right at once? That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u100	Then I ask the question really very briefly and in concrete terms. Does Mr De Groot believe that what he proposes should be done at European level on a level playing field? Or does Mr De Groot think we should take action in the Netherlands in particular? That is the last impression he gives in this debate. I would be very, very sorry to hear that, especially in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u101	This is about a level playing field. This is about European legislation. Like other countries, we have to meet that. We even have an exception, the derogation. In this respect, therefore, we can squeeze our hands. Once again, that brings with it the responsibility to settle this properly. If the sector is unable to do so itself, the sector may be able to do so itself by means of a general declaration; hence my question on this matter, we will really have to comply with European legislation. You cannot create an uneven playing field by failing to comply with European legislation. If that's what Mrs Lodder means, then I'm gonna back off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr De Groot is part of a party which is very pro-European Union. Is he aware that our farmers, growers and fishermen are affected by the Brussels rules? Every farmer, farmer and fisherman I've talked to says: Brussels' laws and regulations are killing us! The second point is the level playing field. We are among the largest net contributors per capita, including our farmers, growers and fishermen. We'll get less than half back. Our farmers, growers and fishermen are financing the false competition in countries where they still have to invent the word 'animal welfare'. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u103	If there is one sector that benefits and has benefited from Europe, then it is Dutch agriculture and horticulture and also fisheries. We have an export of 95 billion. Two thirds of them go to Europe. We would not be the world's second exporter if we did not have Europe. For the internal market, therefore, we must close our hands. And again, that also brings with it a responsibility. It is said that the playing field is uneven. No, the Netherlands is the best in Europe to provide the European market, with its density, knowledge institutions and innovative farmers. There is no way of saying that we are being treated very strictly from Europe. The facts lie that. Look how the European Commission has dealt with the derogation for a number of other countries, such as parts of Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u104	Fine. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u105	A distinction must be made with the European community as an economic community, of which the PVV has always been a strong supporter. I share the objective of economic cooperation, but since it became a European Union, since we became a province of Brussels, our farmers and gardeners have only been affected by that regulation. She's necking. They contribute to false competition and an uneven playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u106	Clear. Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u107	I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u108	I take an element from Mr De Groot's speech, which is to make it universally binding. This Chamber has built up a rich history in particular in the previous period, because the product boards have been abolished, unfortunately with the support of D66. The D66 Group asks the Secretary of State if he wishes to broaden the general statement. Isn't it wise for the Chamber to organise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u109	You need to separate that from the discussion about the product boards. We have found that the sector is very divided. On the other hand, you also see places where leadership is organized. But if you really want to turn that into steps to make it truly sustainable or to remain within the environmental limits, then you will have to have the necessary instruments to do so. I am very curious about the State Secretary's opinion on this point. I'm not ruling out the need to handle this from this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u110	The latter sounds like music to my ears, because the general statements in the agricultural sector do not seem to function in terms of manner and execution. I think I already know the answer from the Secretary of State, but I welcome the last part of your answer, namely that the Chamber should shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u111	Fine. Then we will listen to Mr Dijkgraaf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to worry about. One change after another in the scheme. The uncertainty is enormous. Getting rid of healthy cows hurts a lot. Farmers wonder if there is still a future. The Secretary of State leaves companies with new, partly empty stables and unrecoverable financial obligations in the cold. It's not a good deal of trouble. No extra phosphate room. No financial compensation. More and more often you hear the question, also in this debate, where the direction is. Why do we keep hearing from the Secretary of State that it's the sector? It's the government that makes decisions, isn't it? It's the government that's responsible, isn't it? In the end, it is the government that has to pay the bill. Is this gonna be the 1 billion-dollar Secretary of State? Is the assumption correct that if dairy farmers are sued, all the signals I hear indicate that there will be a substantial claim for damages? Then why doesn't the Secretary of State choose the flight forward, with a good problem regulation, with more phosphate space? What about the netting of the exports of phosphates to low-phosphate countries? I mean, that could be a solution, couldn't it? What has the Secretary of State been doing to make that happen lately? The Secretary of State refuses to align the 2017 emergency scheme with that of 2018. But that has to do with his own choices, doesn't it? Why does he want dairy farmers to fall between shore and ship with unnecessary drains of cows? One more detail: there is a small, but substantial difference between the bottleneck scheme 2017 and the one in the Phosphate Act. In 2017 you fall back on the situation before the onset of the disease in 2015. From 2018 onwards, you will fall back on the situation without disease in 2015. This means that a dairy farmer with a chronic disease without an identifiable starting date will not get any extra space in 2017 and in 2018. Why doesn't the Secretary of State pick up that kind of difference? A lot has already been said about the young cattle number, so I can be brief about that. It does not work, because the desired exports of young cattle are blocked. The farms with less young cattle due to natural development, have a problem. Young livestock farms are dry. How's the Secretary of State gonna fix this? How does he look at the proposal that we received five minutes before this debate? I myself, quite frankly, have no judgment on this, because I am unable to make a judgment on it in five minutes. Will the Secretary of State go in consultation with the sector and will there be a solution? We're only two million more than the phosphate ceiling. Other colleagues have also asked: is it still necessary to go to those higher discount rates? How does the Secretary of State view that? Phosphate production is probably just above the phosphate ceiling by the end of the year. We hope not, but if it is, what exactly happens? Is it correct to assume that Brussels will not be able to simply withdraw the derogation, but will at most be able to initiate infringement proceedings? What does that mean? We know that the abolition of the derogation will result in the conversion of grass into maize land and more leaching. Is the assumption, finally, that in an infringement procedure it is important that the derogation is not bad for the quality of the water and that a firm reduction in phosphate has already been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u113	Perfect on time. Mr Futselaar has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u114	I think Mr Dijkgraaf is the first speaker to ask for more phosphate space. Does he think it's worth the risk? Are we not playing with fire when it comes to derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u115	That would finally be justice in this file. We have asked the sector to deal with manure. Years ago, it was heavily invested. That phosphate goes to countries where there's a phosphate shortage. We don't have a phosphate surplus in the world, we have a deficit. So with our surplus, we solve the deficit in other countries. Mr Graus's gold has been heavily invested. It is too crazy for words that exports to low-phosphate countries are not cut off by the phosphate ceiling. If you did, those cows wouldn't have to go to the slaughter at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u116	I have great respect for Mr Dijkgraaf's sense of justice, but what we have to deal with in the end is the sense of justice in Brussels. That's where the decision is made. If we start to moan at our own ceiling and say that a little more space can be done, we simply run the risk that this derogation will not go through. That is why I ask once again: do we not play with fire if we look for more room in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u117	With all due respect to Mr Futselaar, because I do, but I think this is really frightening. I don't even want to pin that on him, but on the cabinet. This is exactly the story we have heard since 2 July 2015. The big question then is: what did the Secretary of State do to achieve this between 2 July 2015 and now? This must, of course, be done in consultation with Brussels. That's not messing with numbers, that's making appointments. But finally, go tell that story. Link this to a really good Sixth Programme of Action for the Nitrates Directive, which does solve the problem of water quality. Then I think there's plenty of room to negotiate, right about that sort of thing. In fact, I am convinced that Brussels says: of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u118	I call Mrs Kuik from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Are you going to read from your iPhone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u119	Yes. I'm almost 40. So I think I'm gonna have to do it with reading glasses soon, but I'm gonna be fine for a while. Mr. Chairman. Since the expiry of the milk quota in 2015, many Dutch farmers have produced considerably more milk, which has also increased the manure surplus and methane emissions. This is negative for the environment and for people's living environment. Moreover, the ceiling that we have agreed with each other and also with Brussels is exceeded. Interventions are therefore necessary for us as the Netherlands, but also for the farmers themselves. Is the phosphate reduction plan ideal? No, it's not. No farmer wants to carry away cows that have not yet been intended for this purpose. If we'd been in charge ourselves, maybe the plan would have looked a little different. The reality, however, is that intervention is necessary and that you must do it together, both here in politics and with the sector, in order to achieve greater damage for most family businesses. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. Is he optimistic about achieving the targets set in the phosphate reduction plan? And if there are gaps due to possible additional exceptions that are needed, how does he deal with them? Is there a plan B? And how exactly does the Secretary of State deal with individual bottlenecks, also in view of the ruling that has now been provisionally made by the judge? And what room is there for, for example, as we would like to see, organic farmers, also in view of the 2018 transition? The other questions have already been asked by our colleagues. We are now also restricting ourselves to the phosphate reduction plan. It is clear that the debate on the agricultural sector as a whole, not only the dairy farming but also other farmers, will have to come back to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, the subject belongs on the formation table. For the long term, for the coming decades, we will have to come up with a solid vision of how we deal with agriculture, livestock farming and farming in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a phosphate reduction plan which has now been amended twice, and a third of which is on the way; it has not yet been fully developed. In a few months, with steam and boiling water, a plan has been drawn up with the sector, in collaboration with the Secretary of State. It's a bit unparliamentary, I think it's a mess. This also translates into an exceptionally crumbling support base in the sector, in the case of farmers themselves. People don't understand anymore. We do not know whether this is the end or whether there will be another change next week. In the meantime, the consequences are great. It is actually a form of public intervention, together with sector organisations, which is designed in such a way that you have to doubt whether there is still good governance. If we go back in time and look at the history of this, it doesn't get much better. We have always stressed that the indiscriminate abolition of the milk quota has been an extremely unwise decision; but it had to and should be. The plan could count on a large majority in the Chamber. Then there was the ostrich approach, when there were all sorts of signals that there was already ample anticipation of the growth of dairy farming; but nothing happened. Only the predecessor of this Secretary of State came up with a letter, when the suffering had already been done and we had the accomplished fact of huge investments and a huge exceedance of the phosphate ceiling. Then there was a legislative process, which lasted for more than a year in an urgent situation, and there was talk within the coalition, finally to come up with a legislative proposal to make the unfortunate choice of marketable rights, ignoring signals from the European Commission that this might lead to State aid problems, which prevented the legislative process from being completed and ultimately we had to make a phosphate reduction plan with steam and boiling water. Looking back a few years in time, I note that there is a broad responsibility for this, both in this house and in successive governments, and that there is actually maladministration. Now what? I must say, the judge's ruling didn't surprise me entirely. It may be that the appeal ruling goes completely off the table. That might be beneficial for the state treasury, because otherwise we're stuck with fat claims. But of course it was strange that a phosphate reduction plan did not actually define proportionality, which created a situation before the courts in which it could be concluded very quickly that the government had not done its homework properly in terms of proportionality. This applies equally to organic farmers: it is clear that you have all the arguments for excluding a sector which does not contribute to the issue of maintaining derogations. The judge confirms this. Anyway, with all this fuss, we will have to somehow bring the phosphate reduction plan to a successful conclusion. We take a little hope from the fact that by now 4.5 million kilos of phosphate have been saved. I am not going to call today for rigorous measures to put the plan back on track, but I would ask the Secretary of State to prepare himself carefully in the background for any statements that the Secretary of State may expect on appeal, in the sense that he will not be fully right. In any event, let us assume that an appeal ruling will provide more guidance for the adjustment of the scheme and that there is therefore some administrative basis for adjusting the scheme not now but in the light of the outcome of the appeal ruling. I support the Secretary of State in that, but this means that incredible haste is needed. If we assume that this, grab him, is the case in August, we will have to intervene very quickly. Is the Secretary of State able and willing to do so? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to include the counterpart of the adaptation for the rare breeds, which is now included in the reduction plan, in the law from 2018 onwards? And what will the Secretary of State do about the growth of phosphate emissions in other sectors? Mr De Groot has already made very good comments on this. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that it is highly desirable to come up quickly with a system of animal rights, at least with regard to goat farming, at this time the fastest growing meat sector in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u121	There is another question from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u122	I hear GroenLinks and other parties always talk about organic farmers, who have not contributed to the phosphate surplus, but can Mr Grashoff confirm that organic farmers have not contributed to the surplus but have contributed to the growth of the phosphate share, because organic farmers have also grown in recent years, sometimes not little?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u123	No, I disagree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I would very much like to dive into this matter with her once again. If there is a growth of a organic farm, there must also be the corresponding land, which must also be included in the model of organic livestock farming in order to actually dispose of that manure in the present case. My assumption is that the growth of the biological sector actually creates more phosphate space for the rest than it would contribute to the surplus. So it's just what reasoning you choose, but a further conversion to organic farming reduces the phosphate problem and doesn't allow it to grow. That is the substantive argument. The second argument is much more of a legal argument. At the heart of the legal issue we now have a phosphate reduction plan is the fact that the derogation has been granted. That means that you cannot burden a sector that does not make use of that derogation with the consequences of a draconian plan, with the aim of maintaining that derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mrs Dik-Faber, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u125	Then again my question: why call the organic farmers every time? Let there be no misunderstanding that they are dear to me, but there are also common farmers who do not make use of the derogation. There are also common farmers who have more than enough land at their farm and have plenty of latent space to get rid of manure. So why send on organic farmers? Isn't it much better to look at groundboundness and regional loops and to let that be the perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u126	Now Mrs. Dik-Faber is making a very wonderful move. It was not the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that agreed to the Phosphate Act and the Phosphate Reduction Plan, in which this was not properly regulated, but the Group of the Christian Union. I have repeatedly asked the Christian Union Group and other groups why we do not ensure that land-based farmers and organic farmers are excluded from this scheme. Mrs Dik-Faber just said in her own speech that we should move towards regional circles. This would have been the perfect way to take a very big step in that direction, but when the opportunity was there to take that step, the Christian Union actually failed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mr Grashoff just said something in his speech which was a little quick. That's why I have a question about that. He said you might be wondering if there's good governance here. That's a sharp question. I'd like to get a little more explanation on that. Is it a sentence, a clause that accidentally entered the text? I do not know Mr Grashoff like that. What kind of explanation does he give to that verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u128	I deliberately asked this question because making judgments about good governance is ultimately up to the courts. However, it strikes me that at the first time something is seriously before the judge, the judge wipes the floor with it. Then you have to ask all the more from your political and administrative responsibility whether it all went together in a way that can reasonably go towards citizens. Then I'm talking about the sum total of the whole process. That's what I mentioned in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u129	I can well imagine that, and I share that reasoning, partly because in the debate by Mr Grashoff, I and others have warned against this kind of thing: can this be done in this way, is it not a way of dealing with property that you cannot make as a State? The judge will judge, but I will listen to Mr Grashoff so that, should the ruling stand, possibly with a bill of up to a billion dollars, we can argue about numbers, but it is a substantial sum that will have to be compensated by the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u130	Sure. The huge concern that I have is that you have a few months before the hour U, the moment when you will have to meet the phosphate ceiling you can make all kinds of comments about whether or not you are right about it, but at the core you will still have to meet it before the situation can stand that you can't go any further. You have to make it and you want to make it, under penalty of massive damage to the future of our agriculture. We share, I think, very broadly that the expiry of the derogation will be quite disastrous and that it will not be in the interests of nature and the environment, of family farms and of land-based agriculture. We share that view. But my concern is that you will be faced with the situation that you can hardly do any more than pull your wallet in an extraordinary way because of the supreme court ruling that there is no state-trading that can't be done. We can't choose the way anymore, I think, to say: you know what, you can keep your cows. Then the fence's all over the dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u131	I have two questions for Mr Grashoff. He is making a big leap from abolishing quotas to the whole system. Among them was a plan of the sector to grow within environmental conditions. How does he look at the instruments that could be available to the sector, for example to make it generally binding, in order to be able to take real responsibility for such plans? That is the first question. The second question is: how did the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance vote on amendments such as those tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) At that time, D66 tabled an amendment to increase the use of land for growth rather than manure processing, and an amendment on grazing and growth. How did GroenLinks act then? These were opportunities to manage growth somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u132	I do not know how GroenLinks voted on these amendments at the time. There is always a world of amendments. There may be several reasons to support or not to support an amendment. But we act in the spirit of more land-boundness rather than less land-boundness in the Law on land-based growth dairy farming. We strongly advocated this. We are strongly in favour of this. If only that law had been much firmer at the point of ground bondage. Then maybe we could have prevented part of this misery. Mr De Groot's second question is, as I say in all honesty, a little slippery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u133	It was about tools that the sector still needs...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u134	Oh, yeah, it was going to be generally binding. That's a good question. I am reluctant to do so, because I see that, as a rule, such a method of universally binding is used by the government to avoid a part of its own responsibility: we are all going to agree with the sector first in a kind of polder model and then we are going to declare it generally binding. My group is not necessarily opposed to doing so. In the end, I was also in favour of this phosphate reduction plan being made generally binding. In any case, that gave some ground for success. A non-binding agreement with the sector would have failed again. Absolutely. But if you're going to raise this to a standard in the way of government regulation, you're going to have to scratch behind your ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u135	In my view, there were all kinds of amendments to that law, some of which really guaranteed the ground-boundness, as Mr Grashoff describes. I think parties like D66 had weaker flattenings of that. Was it not the case that GroenLinks supported all of these amendments and that D66 failed to provide real ground-based guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u136	The very precise course of the legal process is no longer in my mind, but in any case, on the D66 side in particular, there has been a greater willingness to reach compromises which, in my view, were not useful, because the fundamentality was of great importance. So I'll share that feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u137	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u138	You've already been there. Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u139	I am new to this Chamber, President, so I will go through you and through Mr Grashoff Mrs Ouwehand...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u140	That doesn't sound like something I get very excited about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u141	Look, here's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u142	No, we're not gonna do that. You have just asked questions to Mr Grashoff and your turn is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u143	Then I turn to Mr Grashoff through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u144	Yeah, but you just did. I really don't want people standing on the interrupting microphone for the second time. Yeah, life is hard, even for a starting MP. Mr Futselaar of the SP Group, you have the floor. And, Mrs. Chicken, I hear you say something. Don't you want to encourage new colleagues to behave inevitably?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the much-failed phosphate reduction plan 2017. We can be brief about the need for the plan: it is large. This is not only because the Netherlands is at risk of losing the derogation, so the European exception allowing the Netherlands to apply more manure, but above all because the European rules are based on a real and serious problem with water quality. We shouldn't forget that. The ecological need for the operation is certainly as great as the economic one. As far as intensive livestock farming is concerned, we see in the Netherlands that the shore is turning the ship. Today we are talking about phosphate, tomorrow we are talking about particulate matter and the day after tomorrow we are talking about odour problems or a new animal disease. The disastrous abolition of the milk quota, against warnings from the SP, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, has led to the current situation of phosphate surpluses in the milk sector, which provide for the very far-reaching measures that need to be taken now. The SP also sees the pain of many dairy farmers. These are usually family farms, which have to kill cattle and watch investments go up in smoke. Such a painful operation can only be successful with a number of clear preconditions. Firstly, the scheme must be clear and understandable. It must continue to be fair and proportionate and achieve the necessary goal convincingly. Otherwise, the support will disappear and thus the ability to implement the plan. Is the phosphate reduction plan fair? We can see that the court is currently stating that this is not the case for certain groups. As regards, for example, organic mixed farms, the judge states that they are not responsible for the problem and therefore it is not proportionate or, quite simply, unfair to make them pay for it. The SP shares this view of the judge. In its response to court rulings, the State Secretary states that the exclusion concerns only the claimants, a few dozen companies. He is formally right, but the great reality is, of course, that the reduction plan in general did not pass the judicial test of proportionality for the entire group of plaintiffs they represent. In the meantime, many more companies are threatening to make hundreds of them go to court. Then why does the Secretary of State not opt for a third, hopefully final modification of the phosphate reduction plan, for example by excluding organic mixed farms as a whole? By submitting an emergency apple, the Secretary of State threatens only to prolong the period of uncertainty and only to increase the confusion, especially if he loses it, which is not unthinkable. The current regime has been amended twice over the past four months in different parts. There are now enough signs that dairy farmers are no longer able to tie rope to the details of this scheme. The SP recognises that some of these adjustments were necessary, for example for particular varieties, but that ambiguity must now be combated. During the last general consultation of the Agriculture Council, there was a brief discussion on who is responsible for this operation. The Secretary of State expressed the view that I paraphrase a little bit that the sector is responsible for the reduction and that he is responsible for the scheme. That is reasonable, but I would like to call explicitly on the Secretary of State to also take responsibility for communicating the regulation. The great uncertainty that now exists in the sector can only be overcome by an early, clear and unambiguous explanation of the state of play. This must be done not only through a letter to the Chamber, but also in clear language to the sector. The first half of 2017 is almost over. What will the Secretary of State do in consultation with the sector if in a few months' time it becomes clear that the objectives will not be achieved? What other means does he see? At the beginning of my speech I mentioned the conditions of clarity, honesty and achievement of the goals. At present, the scheme has not been fair in every respect, it is not clear to the sector and is therefore also uncertain about achieving its objectives. As far as the SP is concerned, this is a cause for great concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Chairman. Let me be very clear: we are in favour of Europe, but against the European Union. We do not want to become a province of Brussels. Now we are talking about our farmers, who are being imposed all kinds of nasty rules and who are being beaten by necks. We don't want that. We only want economic cooperation. We are therefore certainly opposed to the idea of killing perfectly healthy animals under pressure from those rules. Why do we have to reduce phosphate at all? Why? For eight years I've been arguing that manure should be seen as the brown gold. It is a good building, soil and energy substance. You can extract phosphate from stool and urine, also from human. That's all going to happen; watch my words. We brought that into the Chamber once, but that was not discussed at all. Motions were rejected. The room is starting to wake up, thank God. I am grateful for that, also for the support for my motion to extract phosphate. But now that there is a shortage of phosphates, the Chinese are no longer supplying us with their own people first and the Moroccan mines are being depleted, a phosphate reduction plan will be put in place. Why does that happen when there are deficits? Explain that to Jan with the hat, Secretary of State. I can't explain that. It is a particularly scarce substance that is needed to bind oxygen. It's a primary need for life. As far as primary necessities are concerned, we must ensure independence, security of supply and affordability. The same applies to energy companies. They should never have been sold. It's the government's job. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Because we are against unbridled growth and against mega-stables, we have supported various motions, including a moratorium on mega-stables. There is even a motion from myself for the phasing out of the bio-industry. It's just not accepted, I'm afraid. We want to solve this, among other things, with a better earning model. Farmers are often forced to keep many animals to earn a good living. We want a better earning model at the expense of retail. There's an adopted Graus motion on that. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u147	I know Mr Graus' consistent plea for the extraction of phosphate from fertilizers. I don't think anyone here has ever said that they don't agree. This requires research and the development of methods. But does Mr Graus agree with me that it is in fact simply that it is a very expensive method to date, which in no way leads to a product that you can put away in the market at a corresponding price?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u148	That's why I asked for a response from the Secretary of State. And that's what I'm asking for. Because it's not up to me. I'm a public representative and animal representative. I have one and sometimes one and a half policy operatives. The Secretary of State works with hundreds of civil servants. He may also employ experts in this field. I can't. I have the money, the budget, not for that, and I don't have the people for that either. That is why I put Mr Grashoff's question to the Secretary of State. I've done that a few times myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u149	But if Mr Graus and I were to agree that it is a fact that the market, no matter how technologically possible, is not at the moment a viable map, could Mr Graus agree with me that precisely because of the fact that there are phosphate shortages in the world, you should not create a surplus here? In this case, we should do it with a smaller herd and thus we could also create much better conditions for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u150	I see that differently, and I have asked questions about this to the predecessor of this Secretary of State. We have no surpluses in the Netherlands. According to Brussels bureaucrats, we have surpluses, but in fact we do not. As far as experts are concerned, i.e. experts in the field of phosphates, I agree. They also say that it is. I have just said: let us initially extract phosphates from animal faeces and urine and then also from human faeces and urine. This could possibly be done through water treatment plants. Let's go save that. Let us cover for the future. Because you can already see that the Chinese are no longer supplying and that the Moroccan mines are exhausted. That has always been my question to the Secretary of State. That is why I am asking for a response again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u151	It would perhaps help Mr Graus if there were more clarity in the regulation, because the market often comes after it. There is no such clarity, so I think that is the biggest problem. Of course, that wasn't my question. I now hear Mr Graus speak a number of times about the moratorium on mega-stables. I am going to ask you one more time, and that is certainly important in this debate too, as Mr Graus is referring to by means of a megastal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u152	I'm not gonna answer that question anymore. Why not? Because I've done it 83 times. Mrs Lodders also knows that there are units where a cow stable is a megastal, a pig stable is a megastal and a chicken stable is a megastal. They were all given and sent to the Chamber. For myself, the border for cows lies at the meadow. That was also said by an expert at a hearing here in the States General. For example, if you keep more than 200 to 300 cows, you can almost no longer direct grazing. I think that is an important and essential thing. I saved it in my head. We have consulted experts with the support of many people in the Chamber. One research firm says, "There's the border for the megatal." The other agency says that's the border. I am not going to have that discussion again, because we have had it a hundred times. That's what I find silly questions. For myself, the border lies with a number where grazing can remain directed. If a family farm, which I am in favour of, is able to keep a small family and/or family business, 300 cows and allow grazing for those animals without obstacles from Brussels, I think that is acceptable. As long as the animals have it right. That's all I care about. I want the animals to be okay in life here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr Graus is very pleased with that. I am asking this question, because it has been raised a number of times in the debate today during a number of inter-rupt debates. I am concerned with the average farms of 70, 80, 90, 100 to 120, 130 cows. That is what this debate is about. These farmers are being hit hugely here. Now, please let go of the whole discussion about these megastals and everything that gives a negative impression and focus on what it really is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u154	Yes, but that is my argument, dear Mrs Lodders. I am the one who has been saying since 2006: let's cut the Brussels rules. We decide what's good for our farmers. On the contrary, I have tried to ensure that there was no Natura 2000, which often prevents the cows from fattening in pastures or even hindering them. There are parties that are in favour of grazing, but have nevertheless made Natura 2000 possible. We have acted against the common agricultural policy. We have come up with the better model of income for small family and family businesses. We have just been the party that stood up for those small farms with 70, 80 or 90 cows, as Mrs Lodder says. Those are our farmers. And your own farmers first! That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u155	I have a question about taking responsibility. The PVV voted for the Wet responsible growth dairy farming. What does Mr Graus think about GroenLinks and the Animal Party voting against that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr De Groot must ask GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. Why don't you go eat a stuffed cookie together? Mrs Ouwehand is standing next to him and Mr Grashoff is sitting there. He shouldn't ask me that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u157	It's on your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u158	They can do that at my expense, too. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u159	You have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u160	In recent years, we have come up with many solutions. I've already mentioned a few. That is the advantage of interrupting: it does not go away from your speaking time. We were the only ones who always suggested that it would not harm a phosphate surplus, but a deficit. We have also always said that manure should not be seen as a cost-enhancing waste. Manure is not waste. Professor Dijkgraaf said it's the brown gold. It's a valuable building, soil and energy substance. Fortunately, the Graus motion was adopted on this subject, thanks to the entire Chamber, I must admit. That's why I repeat so much, because you often get something done. I keep repeating everything; every time there comes a motion and then I get something. That's the power of repetition. We want to leave the European Union because our farmers, like all of us, are among the highest net contributors per capita and not among the high net recipients. In fact, the 2014 figures show that we have paid 4.7 billion and only recovered 2.2 billion. It can't be. With the money also from our farmers, mega stables are set up in countries where they still have to invent words like "animal welfare" and "environment." That must also appeal to GroenLinks. That's where the money goes. We create and finance our own false competition. Of course you can't. The PVV tried to undo that false competition and that unequal playing field, but it didn't. Not every motion has been adopted, not every request has been taken over. Most of the parties first let farmers stumble by taking EU interests over the national interests of our farmers and now they are reaching out to them. That's right, it's better half-way than completely lost. I'm happy about that, but it didn't happen in time. We must stop fighting symptoms, and this is the fight against symptoms. In April 2015, I tabled a motion with Professor Dijkgraaf of the Men's Brothers about the troubles. That motion was supported by virtually no one and was then rejected. Two years later, everyone suddenly shouts about the troubles while we, Professor Dijkgraaf and I, were far ahead of our time. Listen more often to the people who have often been in the right direction!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mr Grashoff, just a brief point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u162	I hear a whole tirade from Mr Graus against the European Union. I'd like to remind him of one thing. The milk quota was a European measure. It was abolished and that eventually led to a lot of misery for Dutch farmers. Can Mr Graus agree with me that this is a good example of meaningful EU regulation that if you did not have it, so if you abolished it, would lead to more misery rather than less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u163	I have already said during interruptions today and over and over again in the last ten and a half years that we are for Europe, for economic cooperation and therefore for the European economic community, but we are opposed to the fact that we have gradually become a province of Brussels. That is why we are against it. So that has a completely different reason. I explained this to Mrs Ouwehand as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u164	That's clear. Mr. Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr Graus may now fall into generalities, but the fact is that the milk quota was not about economic cooperation but about a tough EU rule that was also very much in the interests of Dutch farmers, and that the abolition of it caused a lot of misery. I recommend that Mr Graus remember where the nuances lie in European regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr Grashoff will always have an advantage in the regulations of the European Union, but our farmers, growers and fishermen believe that they have no advantage at all. They've had it once. Mr De Groot also pointed out that earlier in the course of economic cooperation within the framework of the European Community. That will always be the case, and we are in favour of it, but we have too many disadvantages. You can always call it an advantage, but I can immediately mention 300 disadvantages, and we are not doing that here. By the way, why hasn't Mr. Grashoff started eating a stuffed cake with Mr. De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u167	I come briefly to the concerns that Mr Graus rightly expresses about the imminent phosphate shortage in the world. The PVV's group has agreed to the motion for grazing. You could say this is a phosphate reduction plan. We are wasting a lot of phosphate by importing animal feed. This then leads to problems here again. The more animals from Dutch soil can eat grass, the less animal feed we need to import. Is the PVV prepared to support proposals leading to a more regionally organised agriculture, including proposals on grazing and a reduction in imports of animal feed, due to concerns about phosphate shortages in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u168	If you are referring to the cycle, I believe that we have also supported this proposal with several parties. In fact, I believe that there have been motions from the Christian Union, from Mrs Dik-Faber. As far as the meadow is concerned, I think those animals should be in the meadow. If there's intense sunshine, we need to provide shelter. You can't just put them in the meadow indefinitely. It's about the primordial Dutch landscape with cows. It's part of our culture, part of our traditions. That's what it's all about. It's about animal welfare. I haven't always done it to reduce phosphates. I'm in favour of more phosphates. Would you like more or less phosphates? More, more, more!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u169	At 12.15 we will listen to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u170	Before we go any further, I would remind honourable Members that we have a small agenda problem that has to do with the fact that there will soon be a VAO on a completely different subject, which is also tied to a certain time; that must be done between half past two and two hours. We also have the arrangement of work and the suspension for lunch. I would love it very much if we could be done with the Secretary of State's term at one o'clock or one. However, the laughter of Mr Geurts leads me to conclude that this may prove to be hopeless. In any case, I would point out that it may be that we will have to cut the first deadline later, in the sense that we will stop somewhere within that period and then have lunch, after which the arrangement and the VAO can take place and then part two of the first term of the Secretary of State can be held. So you've been warned. You have your destiny in your own hands. We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr. Chairman. I will try to respond as clearly as possible, and I hope that this will not cause any interruptions and further questions. And then it should be possible to finish my first term at one o'clock. The real purpose of what we are talking about today is to keep our drinking water safe and keep our surface water clean. That is why we in Europe have made agreements with each other. One of these agreements is to limit the amount of manure used on land. The Netherlands has gained an advantage from Europe; it is good that Mr Graus is coming in now. So we have gained an advantage from Europe to use more manure on grass, the so-called derogation. Let me stress once again that there is no other country in Europe that has such an advantage on this scale. However, this advantage has been a clear condition for more than ten years, namely that there should not be too much manure, which has been translated into kilograms of nitrate and phosphate. When it became clear that the milk quota was going to disappear, the cabinet always pointed out that agreement and made it clear that unbridled growth was not possible in the Netherlands. There was growth possible but not great growth. In the first term, spokesmen discussed the preparation of parties in the discussions in those years on regulation to reduce manure production. I want to stay out of that now. I think all parties themselves know what responsibility they have had in these discussions. The main concern remains that the dairy farmers themselves also had an explicit responsibility. There was room for limited growth, but time and time again Secretary of State Dijksma warned that too strong growth would inevitably lead to intervention and that it should not be speculated on. Last Tuesday, I had the opportunity to have a good debate in the First Chamber on the introduction of the phosphate rights system, which will have to ensure from 2018 that phosphate production by dairy farming will not grow through the sector ceiling again in the future. Today we are talking about reducing phosphate production in this year to ensure that by the end of this year we will reduce total phosphate production for the Netherlands below the national ceiling. That is what we will have to do in order to preserve the benefit I have just mentioned in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u172	The Secretary of State always starts like this; the sector should have known and warned. But that doesn't send a message to an individual entrepreneur, does it? Because he can't know how to intervene and he doesn't know what's going on. So that this is so at a meta level, as an individual entrepreneur, you don't have a message about that in your decisions? Then you're just dealing with the legislation that's there, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u173	You're gonna have to take it into account. It has always been warned that there could be restrictions on production; if it turns out that phosphate production is growing too fast, that will happen, the cabinet has said. If you then take investment decisions that do not take that into account, then you take a risk yourself. Many dairy farmers have grown hard, so we have gone through the ceiling and therefore intervention has become inevitable. However, that debate has been repeated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u174	Let me give you an example. You have 80 cows, you want to go to 120 cows and you want to build a new stable. You go through all the procedures and you get government permits. None of these permits contain a provision: pay attention, this is a conditional permit; we can limit this to 80 or 70 cows at any time. You're just gonna get a permit. The government says you can build for 120 cows. Then she cannot say retroactively: we have come up with something new and now it is 80. That's impossible, isn't it? That's what the judge says, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u175	This is about the discussion as to whether it was foreseeable that action would be taken by the government. My view is that this was certainly foreseeable. It has been warned repeatedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u176	The SGP's questions on this matter are not so credible, because the SGP itself has done nothing to give entrepreneurs that legal certainty. The Party for Animals has always found the warning that sounded from the cabinet gratuitous. An individual farmer does not have the control that his neighbor or a farmer wants to grow elsewhere. The importance of the collective is not guaranteed. We thought that was the case at the time and now it has become apparent that it is. What conclusion does the Secretary of State draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u177	It reminds me of debates we have had here before. Let's look back at how it got this far. I have also indicated in previous debates that the cabinet is based on the predictions made by the PBL and by the Economic Institute of the Wageningen University. Both indicated a growth to be expected that would remain within the limits of the phosphate ceiling. That was the starting point for the cabinet. Mrs Ouwehand and a number of others argued for regulation at the time, but there was no majority in the Chamber for that. There was very limited political support to replace other rules immediately after the milk quota expired. In fact, several parties have always said, also towards the dairy farmers: we are not going to replace the milk quota with an environmental quota or a fattening quota. In hindsight, seeing what problems we have encountered and how difficult it is to tackle them with the instruments available, it seems to me wise for everyone who has been involved to reflect and look back. In hindsight, you say, "If only there was a direct grip on regulation."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u178	I agree with the Secretary of State. The fact that there will still be a phosphate rights system is, of course, an expression of that reflection: you will eventually have to regulate. I'd like to take it one step further. I would like to hear a deeper analysis from the Secretary of State, apart from the predictions of the PBL at the time. As we have known for 200 years, all free boys together in principle lead to the demise of the collective, if you do not somehow indicate what space one can move within. If we don't settle that, not just for now, but in general, then we run the risk of a few players taking more space than we have. Eventually, everyone has to bleed for that. Isn't that the lesson to be held, including for future debates on livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u179	In any case, it is a lesson that the aim is to increase their own business or business as quickly as possible. its own profit, i.e. its own interest, has put the collective interest at risk. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u180	However, I would like to continue with the debate that Mr Dijkgraaf started in the course of interruption, and in particular with regard to predictability. Let me get another case. In the written contribution last year, the CDA Group raised questions about goat farming in relation to the ceilings and growth. The answer from the cabinet was: we are not going to do anything about it. How far is there anything to provide for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u181	As far as I know, we are not talking about goat farming today, but about dairy farming. The government has repeatedly warned dairy farmers that there were environmental limits and that if these environmental limits were exceeded, measures would follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u182	You've already been in this round, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u183	I know, Mr President, but this is the most essential point of the debate, so with permission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u184	I don't really want to allow it anyway. I suggest that the Secretary of State continue for a while and that we listen again to a round of interruptions, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u185	The Secretary of State is simply not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u186	That's not to my discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u187	Then perhaps you'd like to judge this? It is precisely the point that the secretary says: with the knowledge of today, we should have chosen an alternative system right away. That is what we submitted to the government at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u188	Clear. Then the Secretary of State will answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u189	The government said it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u190	And then he goes on. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u191	I have just indicated that the cabinet was based on the assessment of the PBL and the WUR. By the way, it's not the first time I've reported this here. I think we have that debate with each other for the third time now. We have to be careful not to have the same conversation every time. The cabinet has always used these predictions. They were that there would be growth, but that it would be limited to the phosphate space that there was. That was for the cabinet's point of departure. The cabinet has said: but if the practice is different, we will take immediate action. That has always been the line of Secretary of State Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u192	I have also been reading back quite a bit from the reports of that time, but they had a high degree of circular reasoning, namely: if everyone abides by the agreements he has made and the promise he has made, then it will not lead to an excessive growth in production. That was, of course, highly dubious in advance. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u193	The practice points to Mr Grashoff's right, because there has indeed been far too much growth. We can, of course, have long historical reflections about this. I have just said that I do not think this is very useful. However, it shows that the cabinet has said: once it becomes clear that growth will go so fast that we will go beyond the limits of the ceiling, then measures will follow. On 2 July 2015, Secretary of State Dijksma immediately took them, when she first had the figures that indicated that we were going through the ceiling. Then she immediately announced measures and immediately said: from now on you must no longer grow; if you do, it is for your own account and risk. Nevertheless, quite a few dairy farmers have continued to grow. The most important questions that have been asked today are about that group of dairy farmers, which has continued to grow after 2 July 2015, despite the fact that the then Secretary of State had clearly stated: it is for your own account and risk if you do so. That's what we're talking about right now. I'll tell you more about it later. You can see in today's practice that it is many times more difficult when you have to act through regulation when the problem is already there, than when you make regulations in advance. If Mr Grashoff asks me now 'if you look back on that, would it have been preferable if there had been prior regulation?', Then I guess you'll have to find out afterwards that this would have been preferable. However, at that time, the cabinet had to deal with predictions that were pointing in a different direction and with the lack of political support for doing something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u194	I do not share the Secretary of State's view that we are only talking about growth after 2 July 2015. In fact, I don't think that's right. The total amount of the scheme eventually goes back to a level below and rightly so, because at that time it was too much. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the letter of 2 July 2015 was, after all, rather late, given all the signals that existed in the months before?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u195	No, he was there at the time when for the first time figures showed that the ceiling could not be maintained. Last autumn, I clearly indicated to the representatives of dairy and dairy farming that they had a responsibility to come up with a plan for the reduction of phosphate. After all, the dairy farms, the dairy farmers and the banks, who were also ultimately involved in the reduction plan, were responsible for creating the problem. I also see the social importance of maintaining the derogation. It is not only an individual economic interest for the companies in question; it also serves a social interest. Because of this social importance, I have always said that I would be prepared to support the plan of the sector organisations with legal and financial resources. We agreed on this in the autumn. In the following months, the plan was drawn up and aligned with Brussels. Mrs Dik-Faber said in her speech that she had the impression that we are always coming back from Brussels empty-handed. I heard from other MPs a more nuanced view of that. I would like to remind her that several Member States are dealing with inter-group procedures, with the withdrawal of the derogation. A single Member State is even before the European Court because of the Nitrate Directive. The result of my discussions with the Commissioner and all the official discussions we had with the representatives of the European Commission was that the European Commission gave us the opportunity to correct our infringement. It's a privilege for us to have that opportunity. We're trespassing for the third year. I myself have interpreted this as a sign of the European Commission's confidence and of its willingness to resume discussions with the Netherlands on a new derogation at the time when we are also able to rectify that infringement. The European Commission is looking very closely at this. This is understandable, given that we cannot keep phosphate production below the ceiling for the third year in a row. But we have always said: we have this opportunity; let us also ensure that we use it. The plan we have made together with the various sector representatives consists of three tracks: 1. the feed track, where there is less phosphate in the feed; 2. the stopper scheme, whereby we support farmers who want to stop their business to do so quickly; 3. the phosphate reduction scheme. That third track was a plan of the sector organisations, as I reported in February. They would themselves exercise and enforce private law, but they faced legal difficulties and difficulties in terms of time in order to quickly arrive at a general declaration. I saw that it was possible to secure the plan with a ministerial arrangement based on the Agriculture Act. I have therefore chosen, in consultation with the sector organisations, to do so, because such a ministerial arrangement provided more legal certainty and speed than the track that was originally used. But it was and remained the plan of the sector organisations, which I turned into a ministerial arrangement. This had to be done in a very short time frame; let me stress that. Some Members of Parliament said: from the point of view of careful regulation, you have to foresee some of the problems you have encountered. Of course, if it had been a normal process in which we had taken normal periods to work out the scheme, we would have tested everything. But this had to be done in a very short time frame. Then it is inevitable that we knew in advance that you are running into unforeseen situations, asking for the scheme to be adapted to the practice you are dealing with. You won't hear me say that's ideal. It's about rowing with the belts you have to make sure that the problem is solved by the end of the year. That is the responsibility of the sector organisations and myself, each of us, on our own responsibility. I am providing financial support, such as the stopper regime and the transport track, but also legally, namely this phosphate reduction scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u196	I see that the sector has started to work on the dairy reduction. The sector is successful in this respect, given the latest figures. However, since the big debate in December, I have heard nothing more about the commitment of the Secretary of State in Brussels and concrete results. I have only read in a letter that has been tried to present the results so far to the Nitrates Committee, for which the Netherlands has not had the opportunity. Where I see that the sector is taking steps, I do not see what the Secretary of State in Brussels is doing to achieve his part of the agreement, namely to drag in the derogation. The only thing I see, once again, is that the Secretary of State is not allowed to make a presentation for the Nitrate Committee. I find that very disappointing, so I would like more information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u197	You have had letters about this, to which I refer. In February, you received information on the outcome of my talks with the Commission. The Commission wants to give the Netherlands the opportunity to reduce phosphate production this year to below the agreed ceiling. That was a major step. The Commission should not have had to do that, given how we stand and the Commission's disputes with other Member States. But the Commission has shown this willingness to us, thereby giving a signal of confidence in my words. I have also informed you that the Commission will not start the discussions on the derogation and thus the presentation in the Nitrate Committee until the Netherlands can demonstrate that the phosphate reduction plan actually results in phosphate production falling below the ceiling. You've seen the quarterly report for the first quarter. It says that we have achieved five million with a setback of half a million, so that we have net four and a half million. That's not enough to get under the ceiling. So no, as you have been informed, the Commission is waiting until we can make it clear that what we are doing will lead us to get out of the ceiling. The Commission is also waiting for another number. It is not until June that we will have definitive clarity about the task we are facing. Then come the final CBS figures on exceeding the phosphate ceiling, so that we finally know how much needs to be reduced. We're assuming 6,6 kilos now, but we're not 100% sure it will be. The Commission is waiting until it gets that figure and until it gets the figures from us on our reduction. If these two things are on the table, the Commission is prepared to enter into discussions on derogations. We are therefore on the schedule for these talks to take place this autumn. The final decision will be taken at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u198	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u199	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u200	This will save you time. This is not the first time the Secretary of State has explained this. The cabinet says: this is what we are doing to bring that derogation in. The Secretary of State keeps explaining what he's doing. It is not uncommon for the Christian Union to come out of the Chamber and say: I do not see you doing anything. At some point you have to add a consequence to that and say: I don't trust it. The Secretary of State keeps explaining what he's doing and being told from the Chamber: we don't see you doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u201	What exactly is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u202	My point of order is that you can't keep saying that, because that's what you're suggesting is that you don't have faith in the government's response. Then you'll have to move on to a vote of no confidence. Then we'll be done with that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u203	I do not think this is a point of order, but rather a Boris-van-der-Hammeje.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u204	I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u205	You certainly mean it, but it is not a point of order. It's just criticism of the Christian Union. That's okay, but that has nothing to do with the order of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u206	Just for purity. The cabinet says: we will do this and the Christian Union says: I have no confidence in it. That's a run-in to a motion of censure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u207	That is a political point, I think, and not a point of order. Mrs Dik-Faber, your next question. Short and pointy, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u208	I resist the temptation to respond to this. My next question to the Secretary of State is the following. If the final figures come out in June, when will we be able to convince the European Commission that sufficient steps are really being taken? Is that at the time when we are finally below the ceiling, or should the European Commission have the confidence that the measures that have been put in place will ultimately lead to that? I think the latter is already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u209	The Commission wants to see the actual results. The Commission is dealing with the Member State of the Netherlands, which has had a very great advantage for a very long time, namely a derogation, an exception to the rules of the Nitrates Directive, which would like to retain that great advantage, but, I say this for the third year in a row, which does not comply with the conditions laid down. The Commission is now saying: if you want to do so again for another period, you will really have to show that you are not only willing, but that you are actually complying with the conditions. The Commission goes on to say that only if you can prove that it is not possible to make this plausible, but if we can prove that we are prepared to talk to you again over a further period of time. The Commission is keen on this, and that is also understandable from the Commission's point of view, because the Commission believes that we are starting a process with the aim of concluding it. So the Commission is not saying: we are starting the process and we will see. We'll start the process with the aim of finalizing it. The Commission's decision to give us the opportunity to correct that offence is a major step, because that means that the Commission has the willingness, if we restore that infringement, to proceed to a new derogation. That's the first step. The second is that the Commission is keen on it when we start that process, because the Commission, like us, realizes that you are starting that process to complete it. So as soon as the process begins, you also know collectively that the conversation will go on to arrive at a derogation for 2018. These are the two very important steps in the process. The first one was put in February. The second will be put when we have clarity on the final task in June. Hopefully we will be able to present figures to show that we will achieve the reduction. At the time we are there and the Commission will allow us to begin with the first presentation in the Nitrates Committee, which I expect will be after the summer, the second major step has been taken. The third is the final rounding. But if all these talks and negotiations go well, then I would dare say that if the Commission allows us to give that first presentation, it will prepare the ball a bit for us. That still means that we need to negotiate as well. Most spokesmen's main question was whether things were actually going well and whether I was optimistic. Many of the members are on the concerned side. Some even sketched doomsday images and said, "You have to make a plan B." Let me make that clear today. The Court has read the first quarter report, i.e. the first three months. That's when we realized a net 4.5 million kilos of phosphate reduction. Our target was 8.2 million kilos. We are now assuming a figure of 6.6 million kilos. Even after 1 April, so in the second quarter, in which we are now in, that reduction has naturally continued. Let me give the Chamber today's most important message: it is going very well. Based on the monitoring we are doing, I can say that achieving the objective of the phosphate reduction plan is within reach. That is very good news for Dutch dairy farming. Does this mean we're already here? No, not yet. We're gonna have to keep our course. If we do that, we'll get there. Keeping a course does mean, however, that we will have to hold on to the reduction achieved so far and we still have to take the final step. I would like to say a few words about that last step. We are now in the so-called second period of the phosphate reduction regime. There is a 10% reduction. This concerns all companies that grew after 2 July 2015, until October 2016. An additional 4% discount is applied for non-ground-based holdings. For the third and fourth periods, the scheme provides for a maximum reduction of 20% and 40% respectively. I can also say to the Chamber, because of the good intervals I have just mentioned, that I expect that the latter will really not be necessary. In the very short term and in very close consultation with the sector organisations concerned, I will indicate what the reduction rate will be for the third period. I think we can do this next week. It's gonna be the next week at the most. Ideally, therefore, there is no need to increase the percentage further in the fourth period. It is the commitment of the sector organisations concerned and also my commitment that we now only have to set a reduction rate once more. I'm gonna take a swing at the arm. It will not be necessary to increase the percentage again. As I said, the objective of the plan is within reach, unless we face unforeseen setbacks. I think of the following risks. Firstly, as I said, the final figures will be presented in June. So far, based on provisional figures from the CBS, we have assumed a reduction of 6.6 million kilograms. In the plan we have included a target of 8.2 kilograms, also in order to catch all the setbacks. However, in June the final figures will be on how much is needed. In theory, this can lead to an adjustment of the task. Secondly, the possibility that even more dairy farmers will seek interim measures to prevent the scheme from being applicable to them. I will go into more detail in a moment. If they succeed, this will obviously have consequences, depending on the scale of their success, for all dairy farmers to whom the scheme does apply. Thirdly, the young cattle number. I'm going to say a little bit more about that, too, but if you change that, you might have a so-called "leakage effect." Fourthly, rising animal numbers in other sectors, with possible effects on the overall ceiling. Reference has already been made to this too. That's the four risks we're still facing. Of course, we're trying to mitigate it, keep it as small as possible. As I said, I am very positive about what has been achieved and optimistic about what remains to be done. However, all can only succeed if the dairy farmers, the sector organisations concerned and the government together ensure that the result is maintained and that we keep our course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u210	That's good news. I welcome the four points that the Secretary of State has just indicated that it is the elements that can still influence this. I call on the Secretary of State to exercise some caution in that regard. I hear the objective of reporting to the Chamber next week or perhaps a week later, and certainly to the sector. I assume that the Secretary of State will deal extensively with the direction, changing the rules of the game during the game and being able to anticipate policies by farmers. Everyone is now somewhat in a positive mood because of what the Secretary of State presents, but there are dependencies. For example, the ruling of the appeal court, which is likely to come in August, will have an impact. I sincerely hope so, and I am very glad that it is going well, but how does the Secretary of State prevent us from getting the impression that we can be somewhat positive and cheerful, and then the verdict will change in August?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u211	That's why I said I'm positive and I think the target is within reach, but we're not there yet. We will have to take one final step in the reduction. Next, it is important to hold on to the achieved reduction. I also mentioned the risks. First, I mentioned the judicial procedure and second, the possible adjustment of the scheme to the young cattle number. Both do not involve a risk of not achieving reduction. The reduction has been achieved for the most part. We need to take a few final steps in that regard. The risk is that companies will grow again and thus destroy the results achieved by others. For this we have an instrument in this scheme if we still have to increase the reduction further. I think it's a great deal for all of us to avoid that. Solidarity within dairy farming would be very helpful to this, but we have also just found that there are always farms that choose their own interests over the collective interest. We are doing everything we can to avoid the fact that choosing the self-interest ultimately puts the common interest of dairy farming at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u212	It is precisely those last words that make me a little less reassured. I do foresee the effects of the judge's ruling in the coming period. This means that all those companies that are equal can actually grow from now on. It has effects. That's not locked up. I wonder how the sector intends to deal with this. These are elements that play along. I find some restraint, but at least reports about everything that can happen to us are very important. I want the farmer, the individual farm in particular, to be informed in a good and balanced way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u213	That's what I've just been trying to do. I think it is important for dairy farmers to know that this plan is delivering real results. I have just explained to Mrs Dik-Faber that if this plan has the desired result, we are going into the process of a new derogation. Then we can take that with confidence. That shows that with this plan we are finally on our way to the goal we were aiming for. I think this is the most important thing for support in dairy farming. Of course, we knew it would be a difficult task to achieve the desired reduction in a year's time. I said it's within range, but we're not there yet. There is one more step to be taken and we will have to stick to it. If we succeed in this, we'll move towards the goal we have. You can compare it to a flight. We knew there'd be some turbulence before. There's no other way to do it if you have to do it in such a short time. But anyone who's ever been on a plane knows that you shouldn't be too worried about turbulence. Generally, you just come to your destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u214	I would like to know from the Secretary of State about the other animal categories. Meat cattle have grown from 10.1 to 10.8 million kilos. Is that where the plan might be leaking? At least it's a spectacular growth. Would the Secretary of State like to reflect on this, possibly by letter? How does he intend to limit growth in the other animal categories?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u215	For the other animal categories referred to as "meat and goats', they are far from their sectoral ceiling. There is no need to worry that there will be any growth there, as it was calculated in the total national ceiling. It makes the task of achieving the reduction a little bigger, but it does not mean that growth is so spectacular that I think it puts our task at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u216	But if there is one lesson that we have learned in the run-up to this whole debate in dairy farming, it is that intervention in time can prevent a lot of misery. I would be pleased if the Secretary of State could return to that in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u217	I agree with Mr De Groot that action should be taken in good time if you feel that something is happening in these sectors which could ultimately lead to a serious risk. Right now, we're talking about developments for this year and the fact that we're making sure we get back below the ceiling this year is my estimation of the risks based on the information I have now, that they don't pose any real risks to achieving the goal. It makes things a little bit more difficult, but the growth is not going so fast that we need to intervene now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u218	No, Mr De Groot, I've heard you twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u219	One question has not been answered. How does the Secretary of State assess the growth of the category of other meat cattle from 10.1 to 10.8 million kilos in this respect? That's pretty spectacular, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u220	It's what you call spectacular. There is growth. I've noticed that, too. I don't have an analysis ready to explain where that growth came from. By the way, we are growing in many sectors in the Netherlands at the moment. The Dutch economy is just doing well. This is sometimes also the explanation for growth in sub-sectors. I cannot now speculate on the cause of growth in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u221	I have a factual question to clear up expectation management. I understand the Secretary of State in such a way that he says that the 40% reduction is probably not necessary. At the same time, he says that an extra step might be needed. From that I conclude that he is dubbing or that 20% is necessary and that he is not yet ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u222	That 20% is the maximum for the third tranche covered by the scheme. There's gonna be a third instalment. I told you, it's gonna take another step. In the short term, I will, together with the representatives of the sector organisations, determine how high that percentage will have to be. But given how we stand now, I do not expect it to be necessary to go up to the 20% ceiling either. But as soon as we can make a definitive determination, you will be told. Let it be clear, however, that there will be a third instalment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u223	This is a follow-up to Mr De Groot's interruption. I think that the Secretary of State is very easy to respond to the growth of phosphate emissions in sectors other than dairy farming. We have to note that we have saved 4.5 million kilos net in dairy farming, but we now have 1 million kilos of additional phosphate emissions in the other sectors. So that's pretty significant compared to that drop. If you consider that this reduction must be achieved with great pain and misery, I cannot imagine that the Secretary of State is not very concerned about this with me. Let me mention one sector: goat farming. Since 2000, the number of goats in the Netherlands has tripled. This is the fastest growing sector in livestock farming at the moment. We can't let that happen like this, can we? Or should we go back to debates and close the leak once it's too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u224	The current policy is that each animal category has its own ceiling. As long as a category remains within its ceiling, there is room for development. The same applies to goat farming. The growth that takes place there falls within the ceiling. If Mr Grashoff says that we cannot allow it to happen, he is referring to an adjustment of current policies. That's not something to ask this cabinet anymore. This is undoubtedly something that will also be discussed at the formation table, I think, at the new formation table. In my opinion, the development of livestock farming in the Netherlands is one of the most important issues in the field of agriculture which needs to be discussed. You have to wonder if you have to go on like this. I have given my own views on this before. They're known. It is up to a future coalition to decide whether or not to change its policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u225	This is, of course, a correct position on the part of the Secretary of State, unless, in one way or another, developments are taking place at some kind of pace and coherence that the urgency is so great that you simply cannot do so. Then this Secretary of State will remain responsible, even if he is a missionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u226	Of course, that is why, in reply to Mr De Groot's questions, I indicated that I did indeed see growth, but not growth which is expected to exceed the level of the sector ceiling this year. Therefore, it does not pose an unacceptable risk to the phosphate reduction plan 2017. A number of questions have been asked about the scheme. Mrs Lodders also asked again. I have explained in a letter to the Court that the rules have been amended twice. On the main point, I will come back to you separately. The main point is always meat cattle farming, because of course there is a risk of road leakage. You don't want individual farmers, because of the self-interest I was just talking about, to avoid the scheme by not getting rid of some of their animals, but actually sending them to another company. The animals will be on another farm for a while and they will be taken back in an x-number of months. This has not reduced phosphate production in the Netherlands. This leak has prevented the sector from beginning to end in its plan. Sectoral organisations therefore had the proposal to bring the meat livestock sector under the phosphate reduction scheme. We have done the same in the original regulation. The first amendment contained a change for the beef and veal sector which should remove the problems encountered in practice. After this change was made, we found that there were still companies that faced other problems than those that we had solved. At the end of the day, the department came to the conclusion that it would be unsustainable in the long term to keep livestock farming under the scheme. That's why I've decided to get that sector out. In doing so, we took a measure in the second amendment to make it impossible to evade the scheme; that is the young cattle number. I shall now turn to the substantive questions that have been raised. So this is how we do it. I have already said that with an arrangement like this that has been established in such a short time, it is inevitable that you will run into things in practice that you will have to adapt. My attitude has always been that I am responsible for the scheme, but that the scheme is an implementation of a plan made by the sector organisations. I would therefore like to make any changes in close consultation with them; I have always done so. That is the difficulty of this process. It's always best if you've been able to figure out and test everything in advance, and if you can clarify it in advance, while in this situation it's really necessary to show flexibility at the moment you encounter things that really make it necessary. This flexibility sometimes leads to a lack of clarity. I think that the most important thing is that the sector organisations and I together have the willingness to listen to the problems that arise and to solve them over and over again. In my view, this is the only way to achieve the objective we are aiming for, namely to reduce the amount of phosphate produced. Mr De Groot asked for the generic discount. I have already said that I hope to be able to make it known in the near future. He also specifically asked whether the incentive arrangement for low phosphorus feed for pigs involved public money. This is the case, as stated in the letter to the Court on the overall package of measures. I have earmarked money from the European crisis funds for the pig sector as compensation for the additional costs of low phosphorus feed. Mr Futselaar asked about the division of responsibility and whether I am responsible for clear communication. I believe that we, together, sectoral organisations and I, are responsible for good communication on this issue. I am trying for my part and I am convinced that the sector organisations on their part are doing the same. In a process like this in which, as I have already said, we try to achieve a very difficult goal in a very short time with difficult means, it is important to communicate properly. Nevertheless, there will always be people who say that communication could have been even better. Of course, but we're all doing the very best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u227	I join the people who say it could have been better. However, I do not want to talk about this now. The Secretary of State chooses the line, and rightly so, that the sector is responsible for the reduction and that he is responsible for the scheme. However, I do believe that it is part of this that the Secretary of State is responsible for communicating the regulation. This is inherent in the scheme and therefore applies to the consequences of the changes. I believe that at the moment there is still a world to be won in the sector when you see the confusion that has arisen there. The Secretary of State cannot say that he shares this with the LTOs and the other organisations and that each has its role. He's got to get that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u228	I really think we should do it together. I have already said that the problem was not caused by the government, but by dairy farming. The dairy farms, dairy farming, as well as the banks and feed companies concerned have rightly taken the responsibility to come up with a plan to reduce phosphate production again. They themselves have the greatest interest in this. There is also a social interest, and that is why I am putting in instruments and doing it together. This also admits that we do the communication together. The scheme is truly inextricably linked to the whole plan. We also discuss the content of the regulation in close consultation. I always ask the sector organisations to assess how this is going to work out in practice. We have very good people who assess this, just like they do. We're in this together. Mrs Ouwehand asked if I would like to come to an import stop and an insemination stop to prevent animals from going to slaughter. An insemination stop, if it could, will in any case not lead to any results this year. It is still nine months before calves are born from the cows that are now inseminated. An import stop is not really possible from a European legal point of view. Then I come to the specific point of the young cattle number.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u229	I just have a quick question. The Secretary of State communicates with the sector about the impact of the reduction plan on various types of companies. I asked when companies will be clear about this. Does this also apply to the law that comes into force next year? Quite specifically, it is seen that measures are being proposed for rare cattle breeds and the meat sector, but for next year there will be uncertainty. Can we assume that what is now agreed is also in the law? I was in the process of dealing with the law and I'm very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u230	I will come to the specific questions about the rare cattle breeds under the Phosphate Act, because they really are a story apart. In the current scheme, farms, especially those with rare breeds of cattle, faced the problem that every cow has the same weight. This is not the case in the Phosphate Act. It looks at the actual phosphate excretion. There is a difference, as you know, between animals that are highly productive and animals that are lower productive, such as the rare cattle breeds. The system therefore already takes it into account in itself. I think this subject is at the bottom of my pile. I will go into it a little further later. I hear Mr Graus saying that he is very productive. We all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u231	Highly productive even.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u232	Oh, that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u233	I asked my question about an insemination stop or at least a restriction of insemination in the context of the ongoing trial. We don't know yet if the Secretary of State is going to win the appeal. So we are not sure whether we are going to be below the phosphate ceiling, and we are not sure whether we are going to keep the derogation. In that light, I'd find it very acidic if it didn't all work out. Then it is passed on to the animals and many more animals have to go to slaughter. Can the Secretary of State answer my question again in the light of those scenarios? Then we'll know what weighting he's making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u234	Animals are also exported. There aren't few of them. So it is not the case that all animals that are transported from holdings in the Netherlands go to slaughter. It is true that now more animals are being slaughtered than normal. In recent times, campaigns have given the impression that healthy cows are not normally slaughtered. Of course it will. That is the current practice. This also applies to organic cows, let me add, especially organic cows in dairy farming. We don't have nursing homes for old cows that don't give milk anymore. They really just go to the slaughter. Now it's a little more than normal, but that's one of the ways to take animals. Furthermore, Mrs Ouwehand asked whether the risk of the lawsuits is not that we are not below the ceiling. I said the target is within range. So I'm assuming we're gonna get under the ceiling. As far as the risk of the trial is concerned, that is to speculate on what will be the verdict, which I will do as little as possible today. It is really up to the court to assess these cases, but if that led to a large number of companies not covered by the scheme, which I cannot imagine, then those companies would have the opportunity to grow again. The result achieved could destroy them. I do not think it is possible anymore that we are not going to achieve the result, but the opposite can happen, namely that growth puts pressure on the results achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u235	However, it is not yet clear whether we are maintaining the derogation for other reasons. The Nitrates Committee has said that the condition is that there is support for the plans. I am reaching figures which show that only 30% of dairy farmers support these plans; that does not seem to me to be much support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u236	I cannot imagine that because the derogation is being used much wider than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u237	Yeah, sure, but the phosphate reduction plan, which is a basis for convincing the Nitrate Committee, is not widely supported by the sector. This is also evident from the input of the parties here today. My point is that we do not know whether that derogation will be retained. Does the Secretary of State say here that if that's the case, the animals have to bleed, that they have to go to the slaughterhouse prematurely? Transport to Spain is of course not a joke either. Is he taking that risk entirely over the back of the animals or is he prepared to take the rights and welfare of those animals into account as a precautionary measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u238	I have often heard Mrs Ouwehand in this Chamber argue for the reduction of livestock. That is what is happening now and it must be done in a very short time, but I still do not believe at the rate when Mrs Ouwehand proposed it and as mentioned in her party's electoral programme. What is annoying is that reducing livestock means that animals leave farms in the Netherlands. Then they either go to slaughter or abroad, because there are no other options. So the reduction as we realize it this year can only take place through those two tracks. So if you have setbacks in that process, that should lead to a higher reduction. I would point out, for example, that we have in the plans the feed trail for pigs, which we have not yet been able to count because no results have yet been achieved, but that has started. I expect results from that. Furthermore, there could be more to be gained from the feed track for dairy farming than what has been set in motion. So that's what we're looking at. So there are other ways to achieve the additional reduction than just the disposal of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u239	No, Mrs Ouwehand, Mrs Lodders has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u240	In addition to the previous interruption debate, sick cows are not allowed to go to slaughter. Cows that have a fault are not even allowed to be transported, so they cannot go to slaughter. My question is about the phosphate reduction plan. I have indicated in my input that the plan is inadequate. I look forward to this both by the representatives of the sector and by the Secretary of State. I actually hear the Secretary of State say that this plan has been put under great pressure and that it really cannot be but that there are mistakes in it. I understand that there can be mistakes under high pressure. However, my point is that this is mentioned time and again and there is also a very poor communication with the farmers involved. I do not think the Secretary of State has given sufficient consideration to this. So what's he gonna do to better communicate with the grassroots in the next few weeks, so with the individual farmers about what's going on and where we're standing? I also ask him, once the scheme is amended, that the young cattle number is a natural moment to communicate more widely than just by means of a letter of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u241	Mrs Lodders says: it is inevitable that there are mistakes in the scheme. That is not the case. I would just like to make that very clear. The scheme is simply very sound. Although an arrangement has been made in a very short time, it has been done very well. Secondly, if you try to make an arrangement in a very short time, you try to estimate, despite the short time it will lead to in practice. We have tried to do this together with the sector organisations. Is it actually going to do what we want it to do in practice? On the basis of the data we have, I dare say that it does what it has to do in practice. It reduces the livestock and even faster than we had hoped. The practice is very diverse. Mrs Lodders knows the whole livestock sector well. The practice is very diverse and when making an arrangement you always assume a kind of common denominator. There is no other way to do that, because you have to provide legal certainty. In practice, you always encounter situations that don't match the common denominator. Normally, you try to get a good picture of that in advance and to adjust the scheme in advance. Now we knew from the beginning that in practice we might encounter situations that we had not anticipated in advance. Let me give you an example of the quarantine stables. According to the letter of the scheme, it also included, but of course the scheme was not intended for that purpose. That kind of little change was in that first change. Mrs Lodders goes on to say that the regime has changed time and time again. If I take that literally, that's right, because she's changed twice. The first time was this small technical change. They had to be implemented because, in practice, we ran into situations that we said were not meant to be; we need to ensure that practice can go through and is not affected by this regulation. This has in no way led to any ambiguity for the companies involved. The second change contained the rare pet breeds. That is why it was requested by the Chamber, and I think that is quite right, because that was also one of the examples of a category which was not intended to be affected in this way. In practice, that proved to be the case, and that is why we have implemented this adjustment. The main point, of course, is that there is now a need for an alternative because we had taken out the meat sector. It was our assessment that we really couldn't keep it up. That's exactly the very difficult point, because what do we do? We're trying to prevent companies from getting out of this scheme. Were these farms all so neat and decent that they say: we understand the greater importance for dairy farming and we behave neatly, regardless of whether the scheme makes it possible not to behave so neatly. It would be wonderful if everyone were like that. In practice, of course, it doesn't work that way. There are farmers who use a very small hole as soon as they find it. That's where the difficulty lies. When we took out the meat farm, we had to close that hole. That's why we came up with the young cattle number after some jigsaw puzzle. That's actually an attempt to close that hole. In this case too, we discussed with the sector whether it would work. The sector said she misjudged it. The same goes for us, of course, and therefore for me. We have not properly estimated that individual companies which are in a special situation and therefore do not meet the common denominator would face problems. That is why I have now said to the sector organisations: "You know this world best. Now you come up with a proposal on how we can solve this in a way that we don't compromise the plan." After all, we must avoid creating new loopholes. If we're gonna do that, we're gonna have to talk about how we're gonna handle it. So I asked the sector to make a proposal to amend it. I am, of course, prepared to make that adjustment, because we are doing this together. I understand that the Chamber has now received the outline of this plan from the sectoral organisations. We are now assessing this plan well on the department, precisely to determine whether this will lead us to encounter things that we had not anticipated. Furthermore, we want to know if there is a back door in it and, if so, what we can do about that back door. That is one of the most important questions because the back door is indeed part of the plan that the sector has put with us. We have to judge it properly now, but my attitude is, of course, that I have the willingness to take over that plan, provided that we can guarantee it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u242	Strictly formally speaking, the Secretary of State is, of course, right. When you have to make a plan under steam and boiling water, it becomes big steps, quickly at home, because your time is limited and you want to come up with an arrangement. But I do not think that the Secretary of State is sufficiently addressing the entrepreneurs, the farmers involved. You're only gonna have a quarantine stable or a corporate collection site and face that ambiguity, even more so, that sword of Damocles. You don't know if you can quit your business, it's not clear when there will be more clarity and there will be no communication, at least not about what you can do. This element has so far not been sufficiently addressed throughout the process. That's why I find the plan below par. I do think that there are too many flaws in beauty, so let me just call it "bad." I do not go into the substance of the proposal now before us for the new young cattle number or its adaptation. But because the Secretary of State takes over the scheme and publishes it as part of the ministerial arrangement, he is ultimately ultimately responsible. I think there should be a review, perhaps just with a number of experts from the field. Put them in a loft for three hours and let them calculate what happens when this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u243	That's clear. Mrs Lodders said, "Talk to people who are farmers themselves." You all know Mr Romijn, one of the most important representatives. He's sitting here in the bleachers. He's still just a farmer himself. There are also people from the NMV at the table. They themselves are day in, day out just farmer. My experience is that these organisations are also very close to their own supporters. There are really many people from practice who look at what this regulation and adaptation of that scheme means in practice. But as I said, the practice is very diverse. So there may well be situations that are not easy to estimate in advance for them either. If we run into that, we must be prepared to say: we realize very well that it is equally annoying, but we also have to bite through the sour apple together this year. I'd like to add that. We have a great task to accomplish. The figures show that we can do the same. That includes rowing with the belts we have. Those are not the belts we would have ideally thought of in advance. But we're still rowing a pretty long way in the right direction. Let's stick to that, too. I know that sometimes this leads to situations where companies think for a moment: what does that mean for me and how? So these companies also know that there is a listening ear for that. If this arrangement leads, unexpectedly, to situations that were not intended, we are also prepared to adapt. The same goes for the young cattle number. I will review the proposal made by the sector. We will discuss the risks involved, including overall phosphate reduction, and the consequences of the risks. I would also like to agree with the sector organisations on this. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber very soon about the outcome of that consultation and its significance for the settlement. I come now to the judgments of the judge, but before I do, Mrs Dik-Faber seems to have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u244	I understand that we are now on a new subject. I would point out to the honourable Members that I am about to suspend. In practice, this means that we first have a VAO, then a vote on that VAO, then lunch and then the arrangement of work. I understand that this is more or less a natural moment, because the Secretary of State is now going to the young cattle number, another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u245	I came to the judge's verdict. That part, too, is still about the regulation. That is the last point of the debate. There have been substantive questions about this, but much is for the judge to judge. So I think it would make sense to do that part before we suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u246	Are we done with your entire term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u247	A number of other questions have been asked, but they concern other issues, and there are not many.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u248	Then let's try to do that. Is that five or ten minutes tops?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u249	That depends on the number of interruptions, but if it's up to me, everything can be put together in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u250	That is going to be too long, because I feel that there are also a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u251	That's when we finish it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u252	What if we just finish this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u253	I think it should be possible in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u254	Your time begins now. We're gonna try. We need to keep that VAO for all kinds of agenda technical reasons. I hope that we will be able to deal with this matter briefly and pointically. Mrs Dik-Faber, you are setting an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u255	Sure. I made the suggestion to look at the animal codes. I imagine milking and cattle-producing young cattle have the same animal code. NAJK's pointing that out. If the Secretary of State responds to the sector's input on the adjustment of the young cattle number scheme, will he take a look at this? I'm not saying it has to be, but the buzzing, it's suggested. So I would very much like it to be looked at and responded to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u256	I've agreed with NAJK that we're gonna take a look at that together. That will no longer be a solace for this year, but this subject has been going on for a long time. I think we should talk about the possibilities for the future. Many members of the Chamber have asked questions about the ruling of the judge of 4 May last, in response to an interim action by a number of plaintiffs. The court held that the basis of the scheme was legitimate. I say that first, because that is very important because that im Frage had also come. The judge therefore gave a positive opinion on the basis. All attention was, of course, paid to the view of the court that the scheme should remain inapplicable to the claimants, as they are disproportionately affected by the scheme in their business operations. He pointed out that investments had been made before 2 July 2015. As I indicated in the letter of formal notice, I will appeal against that judgment. I'll ask the court for urgent treatment. Mrs. Lodders asked how quickly that will happen. It is up to the court to grant that appeal. We expect a verdict in August. That would be the lead time of the emergency apple. The opinion that the scheme is disproportionate to the claims of dairy farmers in the context of Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR is questionable. The dairy farmers knew that measures would be taken if the phosphate ceiling were exceeded. The same applies to the companies which brought the interim proceedings. As regards the phosphate ceiling, no special rules apply to specific holdings. I also think that the judge should have been more cautious, given the wide discretion which the government deserves in regulating ownership. Should the State be unsuccessful in appeal, some asked; Mr Grashoff explicitly hinted at it, and I hope that the judgment gives a precise explanation of the facts on the basis of which, in individual cases, the court has ruled that there is disproportion. This also gives clarity to other companies, since they can then be determined whether they are in similar circumstances to the claimants. On the basis of the current ruling, it was actually impossible to make that assessment. It will also help me to decide which group of dairy farmers should possibly be covered by a bottleneck scheme. I do not want to and cannot anticipate any further consequences, as I cannot now foresee which companies, for whatever reason, will be put in the right or wrong in the event of a possible appeal. I cannot therefore judge how many companies are in similar circumstances. It is impossible to judge now what should happen at that time and to anticipate it. I believe that I have answered the questions about the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u257	Very good. There are still a few short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u258	The question is each time if this was foreseeable. Should these entrepreneurs have known that measures are coming? The Secretary of State says time and time again: yes, it is just foreseeable, it has been announced. What has been communicated by the previous Secretary of State, for which this Secretary of State is politically responsible? There is a letter of 3 October 2014 announcing that measures may be taken if that ceiling is exceeded. But then it comes: growth on individual dairy farms will still be possible, but the total dairy herd is limited. As a dairy farmer, you have all the government permits to grow and the Ministry sends out the signal: even if additional measures are needed, growth at individual level remains possible. On what grounds do you have to say, I went from 80 to 120, but I could have predicted that it would be 80?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u259	The passage quoted by Mr Dijkgraaf has also been translated into the phosphate rights system. Furthermore, the appeal court will have to consider the question of foreseeability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u260	Those are Dutch words, but it is not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u261	This is all we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u262	I note that the Secretary of State is avoiding this question because he would rather not answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u263	No, I answered that clearly. What Mr Dijkgraaf refers to has been translated into the phosphate rights system. The phosphate rights system enables growth on individual companies. We have discussed this at length. It was about the marketability of phosphate rights. When the phosphate rights system enters into force, you can buy phosphate rights to grow. So that has been translated into the phosphate rights system. Mr Dijkgraaf also spoke to me about the provisionability. That's exactly what the judge has to judge. As Mr Dijkgraaf also knows: if it is up to the judge to judge, it is not wise to go into this extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u264	The Secretary of State did not want to comment on the substance of the question as to what the consequences would be if the State lost the appeal. I did ask a question about that. If the State loses the appeal, there is damage to be claimed by dairy farming. Where does that claim bill go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u265	What Mr Geurts says is speculative and anticipates a possible ruling. I just said I don't want to do that and I can't do that, because you have to know the verdict to judge it. I cannot therefore share Mr Geurts' speculation with the knowledge of the present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u266	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u267	I think it is an important point. You can assume from the case that on appeal to parts the State is unsuccessful. Then there's damage to claim. That's just a consequence of that. Where's that bill going? That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u268	Mr Geurts immediately draws one-on-one conclusions and I do not share them. It's speculation. You must first know the verdict of the judge on appeal. We don't know him, because he won't be here until August.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u269	I have a specific question. Maybe the Secretary of State is gonna answer it later, but I'm gonna find him in this block. How many cases have been reported to RVO as equal cases on which the judge has ruled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u270	I do not have a current overview of this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u271	Thank you. So much for this subject. Then I'm gonna suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u272	Mr President, I have another supplement. I would like that overview in writing, because I know that things have been put forward at the RVO. So it's okay later, you don't have to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u273	It's been noted. Can I add one more thing to that? I said that on Tuesday in the First Chamber, so it seems fair to indicate that here too, because it is relevant. Mr Dijkgraaf asked me how I deal with individual cases, regardless of the court case. I said the following in the First Chamber. I have discretion in the scheme. I don't want to bet it wide. I'm not. I can't, because we have a shrinking call to make. But, of course, I would like my sense of justice to be included in the assessment of very specific situations which lie outside the categories on which the court has ruled and to which I have appealed. These are very special situations that really require very careful customization. I am prepared to inform the Chamber before the summer in what situation I have used that power. I also gave an example in the First Chamber on Tuesday in which I have already used her. For example, there was a company that had traded all his Frisian Holsteiners for Jerseys. It had more Jerseys, lower productive cows, but it had no more phosphate production. It was obvious to me that if that company were forced to reduce its livestock, it would ignore the purpose of the scheme, namely to contribute to lower phosphate production, because the company had not started to contribute to higher phosphate production. I found that an exemplary example for which I have used my discretion. I told you, I'm very reluctant about it, but this doesn't mean I'm not using her at all. I thought it would be very careful to report that here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u274	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u275	Let me explain what the schedule looks like. We've got a VAO first. Then we have votes. That could be at 1:45 p.m. Then I'll suspend for lunch. That's half an hour. After that, we have the arrangement of work. It'll take another 20 minutes, because it's pretty full today. Ice and again, I think we will resume this debate at 2.50 p.m. so that the Secretary of State has plenty of time to stretch his legs.
