ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the debate on the declaration of government. The next item is the second government term. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will first answer a few questions raised in the second term of the Chamber and then I will come to a number of motions. With regard to the social state of the Netherlands, Mr Segers of the Christian Union asked for the updating of the information that served us in the cabinet formation. I'll redirect that question to the SCP. The next Social State is scheduled for December, I understand already this year. I thought he said "2019" in his question, but apparently it's already coming this year. I do not know to what extent the update can still be included, but otherwise it will be in the next one. We are going to pass on the question and the SCP must also be pleased that his work has not remained completely unnoticed, in good Dutch. But I very much agree with this remark. Then there is Mr Krol's question from the political movement 50PLUS about the senior ambassador. That is why the situation is as follows. The contract with John de Wolf continues until the end of December of this year. That's also reported to the Chamber. We're gonna go through with it anyway. The campaign continues to allow older people to be agile in the labour market and to remove prejudices. The specific instruments used to support these objectives will be further developed. Of course, that will be discussed with the Chamber. Mr Asscher asked me in the first term what we can do to combat the unfairness of wages in Europe. What are the next steps on equal pay for equal work in equal conditions? He mentioned a few specific points, including premium shopping. I took a good look at it. I am very willing to do so, of course together with the Minister for Social Affairs. He does that especially in the Epsco Council. I will do the same where I can with the Heads of Government. We are very much in favour of tackling unfair competition and social dumping in Europe and equal pay for equal work in the same place. In other words, this will also be part of the follow-up. As far as I am concerned, it is already under discussion at the social summit which will take place on Friday 17 November in Gotenborg, which I myself will be attending, and at the European Council in December. Mr President, those were the questions on which I was still guilty, unless someone jumps up very angry and says: I also had a question. Otherwise, I'll start with the motions. The first motion has been amended, as we know, and it will come back later in the set to the motions tabled by Mr Asscher. I shall therefore begin with the motion in part No. 9 by Geert Wilders about not raising the AOW age further. I have said a great deal about this in the first period, including the need for these measures. I have also said this about the importance of development aid and about OS policy, also in relation to our security, our contribution to development in other parts of the world and the removal of root causes of migration. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 9. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Wilders on part No. 10 on the Vpb tariffs. I would point out that the whole package in the coalition agreement is a balanced and coherent package. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 10. The Wilders motion in part No. 11 is about the budget surplus. I already said something about that today. From the sound budgetary policy, it is crucial that there is a small buffer, of at least half a percent. That is what we now have in the years to come, to absorb shocks if the economy suddenly deteriorates. Then we do not have to make terrible cuts, but we can take it a little. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 11. In the Wilders motion in part No. 12 the government is invited to close the border for all asylum seekers and migrants. I've gone into it before. The cabinet wants to try to do the reception in the region on a larger scale, but we are also proud that this country offers protection to people fleeing war and violence. It's just part of civilization. So I'd like to dissuade that motion. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 13, Chairman. That's that motion about giving up trust in the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Defence. What I would like to say here once again is that Mr Wilders disqualified in this motion of censure two rulers, who have been sworn in and who, as everyone in our country, must be judged on their actions and not on their origin, and who have every right to carry out any function in the Netherlands. I have really, really big objection to and a very dirty taste in my mouth about this motion. I therefore strongly advise against her. The motion in part No. 14 on the termination of confidence in the Minister of Justice and Security. I have said a lot about this before in the debate. And this motion is also strongly discouraged. The motion in part No. 15 on de-Islamicization. I would almost challenge Mr Wilders to explain how he intends to do that. Are we going to re-enter the Qur'an police anyway? That is something that we, Mr Wilders and I, together, discussed at EenVandaag and he earlier with Mr Buma here in the Chamber. How are we gonna do that? Are we gonna pick people up at home? Are we gonna turn them off? What's going on here? It's a really disgusting motion and I strongly advise against her. The motion in part No. 16 on transparency of the dividend tax. I have already said something about this in the first term. I see it as a part of my task as Prime Minister, which also applies to the whole cabinet to speak with all kinds of people and interest groups. They can be trade unions, but they can also be environmental organisations and companies. The confidentiality of these conversations is necessary in order to be able to hold such conversations in the future. You can always judge us by our actions. If we were to give the impression that opinions such as carbon paper would be passed on to policy, we would have a completely different discussion. That's out of the question. We make our own political considerations. I therefore advise against this motion. Then there's the motion in part No. 17 on the failure to abolish the dividend tax, in other words on the waiver of the dividend tax. We have, of course, discussed this in detail. I reject this motion and I refer to it briefly after an hour of debate that we had this morning. I don't think it makes any sense to do that again now. With reference to this extensive, pleasant but not entirely converging debate this morning, I would advise against the motion in part No. 17. The motion in part No. 18, chairman, is about the VAT increase. That was also discussed at length this morning. Can I refer to that part of the debate to the motion on item No. 18 dissuade? The motion in part No. 19 I advise, because we really think the different options are important here. I also said in the debate that we consider this important in order to reach the cheapest solution. I am very pleased to see, also in the debate just now, that we really think we can work with GroenLinks and other parties to achieve these environmental objectives. But I think it's important now to set a course. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 19. The motion in part No. 20, as it stands, leads to delays. We must now move quickly towards the implementation of the coalition agreement. We want to implement that and not wait for further advice. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 20. Moreover, I believe that the Chamber itself can also ask for advice from advisory bodies. The motion in part No. 21, chairman, but I see signs being made from the GroenLinks circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u3	At a rapid pace, at least within two minutes, all our motions have been dissuaded. That's pretty good. I wanted to comment on one more specifically and on the motion on the CO collection. Mr Rutte says he wants to keep all the options open. That is the point of the motion. The motion calls for the option of non-funding of CO capture when an energy agreement is reached. Why did I come up with this motion? I did that precisely because I felt with this Prime Minister that it absolutely must be part of that package. Now he himself says: we have to keep all options open. That is what this motion calls for, and I therefore believe that he could simply state that this motion is Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u4	No, because this motion ultimately limits the use of this cabinet to ensure that we choose the cheapest route to solve the problems. This means that you should also be able to use the SDE+ scheme for CCS. We had that debate with each other. We do not agree and we really want to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u5	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u6	I know. That's why I'm not saying it shouldn't be funded. I am asking very openly here again about the attitude of the cabinet towards the Chamber of Representatives in order to keep the option open that CO storage is not part of that. It is about keeping that option open and being prepared to listen to the arguments of the environmental organisations as well. It's about more options instead of fewer options. I'm not closing any road and yet it's being served. I find that remarkable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u7	I find it really unwise to start to hope that this could happen. I'll come to the motion in part No. 21 on the planned discount on the Wajong benefit. That is, of course, a measure taken by the previous cabinet. Job agreements have also been made about this, including with the UWV. These are people who still have a view of work in the end. There will be a policy review of the operation of the Wajong at the beginning of next year, so that we can also see whether the scheme works as planned. Work must pay, so I would advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 22 calls on the government to abandon the proposal to allow people to work below the minimum wage. It is our priority that people should be given opportunities to work, especially those with disabilities. The social minimum is not reduced by these measures. That doesn't change anything at all and we're going to use that 500 million to eventually create extra sheltered workplaces. So I want the motion in part no. 22 dissuade. Motion in part No. 23: Judgement of Chambers, Presidents, but I would like to read it in this way. That is my question to Mr Roemer that the plan to be drawn up here should be there as soon as possible. I'm not sure that's exactly what it's gonna do for the VWS budget. There may only be a letter of formal notice before the VWS budget, and a plan will be drawn up as soon as possible as requested in this motion. As far as I am concerned, I would like to leave the motion in part. 23 to the judgment of the Chamber, but please with some space in the speed of execution. The motion in part No. We'll take over 24. It implements the law. I put it that way. The cabinet is obliged to enforce the law. This motion asks me to implement the law, so the motion in part No. 24, I'd like to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'll look around and see if anyone has any objection to this motion being taken over. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u9	I don't know if everyone knows we have a new method of consulting. Maybe it's good to say that. It is dissuaded, override or judgment room, in addition to some heavier variants. But in this case, it's taken over. On the motion in part No. 25 we have just discussed in detail, Mr Roemer and I. With reference to that part of the debate and our obligations as a member of NATO, the alliance, I would like to discourage that motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 26. That is the amended version of the motion tabled yesterday by Louis Asscher. During my initial contribution, I have already said that I believe that the Labour Party and the Cabinet were very close together, and I would mention the Labour Party on behalf of all the other parties who endorsed the motion. I would therefore like to thank him very much for the amended motion. It has now been added that the quality, accessibility and reduction of workload should be at the forefront of new basic agreements, while at the same time allowing for innovation and the fight against bureaucracy. I read that the proposers say that there will be broad agreements, including for the care of the neighbourhood, and that they understand that there is not already any clarity about the precise financial arrangements. I should like to understand the motion as follows: in concluding general agreements for the care of the neighbourhood, there are three anchor points: the workload, accessibility and quality; and it must not be at the expense of the work of the district nurses themselves, nor at the expense of the elderly who receive care from them. That is why the motion also refers to "neighborhood nurse" and not "neighborhood nurse." This will make it possible for people to stay at home longer if they so wish. That is an important objective. At the same time, that is what we discussed in the first term too: it must, of course, be possible and still be possible to promote innovation, to reduce waste and to tackle inefficiency or simply to pursue a decent but also better staff policy along other lines. If I may read the motion this way, Mr. Chairman, I'll leave her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr President, I think that is very nice, so I would like to thank the Prime Minister for having been able to live with the operative part of this motion in the debate on this: the district nurse is excluded from the cuts. That's the certainty that's needed for those people and for their patients. Furthermore, I agree with what has been said, so thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u11	Great, thank you, also for the pleasant discussions about this in the course of this debate. Yeah, that's how it's supposed to be, once in a while. And as far as I'm concerned, more than... What are you saying, more than once? Well, I don't know. At least more than we're used to! The motion in part No. 27 calls on the government to examine the alternatives so that the social minimum applies to all workers. For us, it's the first thing that people can get to work. I have spoken before, I think, on a motion by Mr Roemer, about the half billion that we want to put in extra sheltered workplaces. So I want the motion in part no. 27 dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 28, because I really think it is important at this stage that the Minister for Social Affairs has every opportunity to conclude that agreement. But I would like to add that he intends to report to the Chamber on this regularly. In doing so, he will listen carefully to the wishes of the Chamber as regards the pace and precise implementation of further legislation. I find this motion too restrictive, so I would advise against her. But we will try to work in the spirit of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u12	So what exactly is the limitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u13	A few things are said here. The government is invited to report on progress on the social agreement. Then it is said quite precisely: 'before legislation in this area can be presented to the Chamber'. I can very well imagine that this is how it is going to go down, but it may also sometimes be that there is a need for great speed. I remember the social agreement from 2013, where that was the case. Then we'll have to do it faster. But Mr Asscher can be sure that it is the intention of this Minister for Social Affairs to do so. I could also imagine that Mr Asscher's motion in part No. 28 to deal with the Social Affairs budget. Perhaps it is also an idea that he will come back to it at that time, because then the Minister for Social Affairs will be able to explain in more detail how the process is being completed. We find the motion too restrictive a week after the start of the cabinet, although we can imagine that it will be quite possible to work along these lines in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u14	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u15	I can imagine that, if the Minister writes a letter on how he is shaping that process and also indicates how he sees the planning of the legislative proposals, there is apparently a pinching point, because there are no single legislative proposals that can give me reason to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u16	I think it is in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u17	That letter must be available for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u18	A letter for the budget and then you hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u19	In that case, I'll hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u20	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (34775, No. 28). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u21	The motion in part No. I do not want to advise 30, referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u22	We were at the motion in part no. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u23	Excuse me. I'm going too fast. The motion in part No. Twenty-nine, we're taking over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u24	Again, I ask the Chamber if anyone has any objection to this. I see that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u25	Then the motion to part No. 30. I'd like to dissuade them. At some point, new construction needs to become energy neutral. At the moment, that is not possible. We're working very hard to make the new building gas-free. That too is the ambition. By the way, this is not automatically completely energy neutral. That's what I have to say. The policy is aimed at learning and innovation, and this also allows for greater ambitions in the long term. The motion in part No. 31 requests that the netting scheme be maintained. I'd like to dissuade them. The reduction in the cost of solar panels makes the subsidy on solar panels really excessive. The scheme reduces the budget for other renewable energy options or energy savings options, i.e. the motion in part no. 31, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. We have already discussed this in the debate, and I would also like to advise against it. The motion in part No. 33 asks not to give priority to or put public money into underground storage of CO. Part of our policy is that we want to look at CCS as well. That's why I need the motion in part No. 33 dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 34, because it is very conductive in the direction of pension funds. They're about their own investments. The same applies to banks. We cannot go into this as a government. The motion in part No. 35 is about breaking the energy agreement. It is precisely these goals that provide security for companies, including for medium-term investment. We believe that the government will not be more credible if we break the energy agreement in the interim. At the motion in part No. 36 we finally come to the conclusion that we should discourage them. But I have already echoed Mr Pechtold's words in the first term that it cannot be the case that if we spend 200 million on cleaning up the pig sector in Brabant, which is simply relived elsewhere. I have just said that we want to give the Minister of Agriculture the opportunity to further develop and shape the policy in this area. The motion in part No. Thirty-seven, I'd like to dissuade you. The acquisition fund aims to finance takeovers plus the financing of investments for modernisation and/or sustainability. The government does not want to enter it now where the so-called conversion to organic farming is concerned. That is a choice of the entrepreneur and not a matter for the government. The motion in part No. 38 I would advise against referring to the debate. VAT is part of the tax package and is largely compensated. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 39th report deals with the balanced development of purchasing power. No one could argue with that. But I'll advise against the motion, because of course there's a catch here. This must, of course, ultimately also affect the purchasing power of different generations, and we cannot compensate for failing investments in pension funds. The motion in part No. 40 is simply not financially feasible, or it should be the way Mr Krol suggested in the campaign. But I don't think that's a good idea, because then the AOW goes backwards. And it is also justified to increase the age of retirement with life expectancy. The motion in part No. I should also like to advise against this, even with a reference to the debate. This scheme is being phased out and is, of course, part of a package that ultimately leads to EUR 5 billion reduction in costs on balance and below the line. And this is necessary because of the 2014 measures taken for the housing market. I would suggest to Mr Van der Staaij that the motion on item No. 42 as the Cabinet withdraws the Law on Sunday rest, as is known. There is enough room for municipalities to arrange Sunday rest locally. That good consultation is also taking place in practice. But I fully understand the concern that Mr Van der Staaij wishes to raise with this motion. That is why I would suggest that we come back to this issue in the Home Affairs budget. I therefore ask Mr Van der Staaij to hold this motion until the budget is dealt with, so that we can consider it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr President, the Prime Minister is now linking this to the Sunday Act, but until now this discussion has never been linked to it and has been conducted with Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u27	Eric, pay attention!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u28	It was actually much more about the freedom of contract and the space in it. The Sunday Act is more about making noise and the like. Actually, that's unrelated to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u29	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u30	The Prime Minister says we'd like to have a quiet look at it. Then I have no objection to holding the motion until the budget of Economic Affairs is dealt with, if there can be a letter indicating the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yes. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. He doesn't piss me off, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u32	Through the Minister of Economic Affairs we have arrived at the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. So if there can be a warm letter before the Economic Affairs budget is dealt with, then Mr Asscher and I are prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mrs Keijzer is from the warm letters section, so she will be coming for the budget. All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u34	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (34775, No. 42). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes. The motion in part No. 43: Judgment of the Chamber, including a reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 44 by Mr Van der Staaij: judgment of the Chamber. We have, of course, also discussed this in the debate. On the motion in part No. I'm not gonna advise 45, because that's not my call. The motion in part No. Forty-six I'd like to dissuade. The motion in part No. Forty-seven I would advise against referring to the debate. We enforce the law. I think that's the least of it. The motion in part No. 48 I should like to dissuade because the integrity of directors is also adequately guaranteed before and after the post, and the entire income provision for retired directors also provides a good balance between getting back to work quickly, but of course in a more honest way. The motion in part No. 49 is about digital voting. Well, I don't think that's up to me either. No, that's something for the room, too. The motion in part No. 50 is about the UN Refugee Convention. That is what we are saying in the coalition agreement. We are going to take a very close look at the UN Refugee Convention, but of course we are not going to call it off, as is suggested here. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 51. The Chamber is regularly informed about immigration figures through the chain report of the State Secretary for Justice and Security. There are also the statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics. So this doesn't add anything, and there's a lot of bureaucracy, so we don't recommend it. The motion in part No. 52. An assessment is made by the Minister, who, considering everything, can lead to denaturalisation in an individual case. That is the situation at the moment with regard to the motion for a resolution on item No. 52 and that's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 53 is about the NPO. This cabinet considers public service broadcasting to be of great importance, precisely because of the major changes in the media landscape. Then we need a solid public service. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying one word, if I may, because we are coming to the end of this debate. I say to you, and to you, the entire House of Representatives, thank you for giving us the opportunity to pronounce the declaration of government. It is always exciting, because I said last Friday when we drew up the declaration of government that the Van Agt II cabinet fell in drawing up the declaration of government, and I kept it before Colijn V fell in the debate on the declaration of government. At least we seem to be taking those first two bumps now, so we're past Van Agt II and Colijn V and now we can get to work! I would once again like to thank the Chamber very much for the opportunity to make that statement and for the pleasant debate which we had yesterday and I myself with the Chamber today. According to the Constitution, a cabinet is appointed by the King, which we were able to see last week, but cannot function without the trust of the House of Representatives. That is also the constitutional significance of this debate. It is not just there, it also has a constitutional meaning in our constitutional law. The Chamber will be voting on all the motions in a moment, but I note here that I am very pleased that the debate has rightly been conducted on the sharpest of the cuts, as it also fits in with a well-functioning parliamentary democracy. We even had a few minor derailments on my part, which we could also quickly correct, thanks to Mr Klaver among others. At the same time, despite this fierce debate, I have also tried to be open to the offer of joint and constructive consultation among political groups here from different parties; we have even been able to achieve a first result on the important issue of district nurses. Along this line, we can also discuss the implementation of the policies of the coming years. The Cabinet appreciates that very much, may I say to the Chamber? We will do everything possible with those parties, but of course this applies to all parties in this House of Representatives, where agreement and broadening of support can be found. Constitutional confidence here is assumed to be the opposite; I believe that Mr Buma said so in his second-term contribution. But at the same time, that trust must be earned in our social reality. In our country, we do so through joint consultation on policies and implementation. That's what this cabinet's gonna do. That's what gets caught in a statue. The Night's Watch in the Rijksmuseum shows the moment when a group of people are moving. That movement comes from the middle, while several people around it determine their place and position. Possibly the movement goes in the direction of a door, possibly that door is also ajar and follows the start signal: we're going! I ask you, go see that and join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-02-tweedekamer-8.u37	We shall vote on the motions tabled in half an hour.
