ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Segers as the first speaker on behalf of the Christian Union. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u2	Madam President. It is less than seven weeks before the elections, when we ask the voters for their confidence. It is painful that today we are not talking about our ideals and plans, but again about the Bitch Deal. And yet it has to be. The new facts that Bas Haan and Nieuwsuur have brought out make that inevitable and the action of this minister makes that inevitable. The role of the Prime Minister also raises many questions. This debate is no longer about the exact amount of money ever transferred to a drug criminal by then District Attorney Bitch. This debate is about political morality, about upholding pure political and parliamentary practices. Or, in the words of a recent political advertisement, this debate is about what is normal, what is decent and what kind of politicians we want to be. If we become MPs or ministers, we promise or swear that we will faithfully fulfil the duties that this office imposes on us. It is the duty of a Member of Parliament to control the cabinet. It is the duty of a ruler to inform the Chamber correctly, fully and fully. That is the measuring bar with which we have to measure ourselves and each other. We already knew that the MP Van der Steur co-wrote and thought about letters to himself. Now we know what he wrote, and my group has been shocked by that. The big question has always been: what was the memory of Secretary of State Bitches? What Bas Haan and Nieuwsuur have now revealed is that in March 2015 Minister Opstelten was about to write down for the first time what amounts Secretary of State Teeven remembered. This minister said earlier that he got up when he was about to get information about this reminder that other MPs didn't have. That was the border for him. But now it turns out that as a Member of Parliament, he had already seen this information a few hours earlier and even commented on it and then kept quiet about it. When he saw in the draft letter the exact reminder of Secretary of State Teeven, he wrote in the margin "very vulnerable" and asked the question he now says was a question full of surprise: if this is the memory of the Secretary of State, why was this not reported earlier? The result is that a letter was sent to the Chamber without the exact reminder of Secretary of State Teeven. In fact, it was again claimed that he would have insufficient memories and that they did not relate to the financial handling. Both of these are completely incorrect. Minister Van der Steur said earlier about the purpose of his written opinions: it was advice to the Minister how I felt that the Chamber could be carefully and correctly informed. In the light of the new revelations, the letter sent to the Chamber is in no way compatible with that purpose. My three main questions to the Minister are as follows. Does the Minister consider that the Chamber was carefully and correctly informed on 9 March 2015? Does the Minister consider that, as a Member of Parliament, he helped to ensure that the Chamber was carefully and correctly informed on 9 March 2015? And does the Minister acknowledge that he himself did not hear more about the norm than his fellow chambermates did earlier that day? I also have a question for the Prime Minister. In response to the motion of censure tabled by me and many colleagues in the debate in December 2015, he said that it was never intended to withhold information. Bas Haan concludes in his book that that is not perseverable. How does the Prime Minister respond to that? Concretely, the Prime Minister denied the existence of a discussion report in the debate in spring 2015. It would be a personal note. In the meantime, however, he talks about a discussion report. He was supposed to have seen that interview report an hour earlier. How does he look back on that? Was that the moment, when the Prime Minister saw that interview report, and the amounts mentioned in it, the first time he heard or saw these amounts? This whole thing never needed to be this big. She never had to make so many political victims. If Minister Opstelten had admitted his mistake at the time, we would not have been here today. If MP Van der Steur had done his duty, we would not have had to have this debate today. But we're standing here. That's not the fault of a persistent investigative journalist. It is not the fault of the Chamber, which repeatedly felt that the bottom stone had not yet been raised. And when it comes to your duty as MP, you can't hide behind page 149 in the report of the East Committee. No matter how we turn this around, this affects the trust between Chamber and Cabinet. It affects the trust between politicians and citizens. That confidence is already scarce, while trust is the oxygen of our democracy. The question for my group is whether confidence in this matter can still be restored. That question must be answered in this debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u3	I am just trying to clarify what the Minister of Security and Justice is accused of in his capacity as a Member of Parliament at the time. We have already devoted a number of debates to this in the past. He himself said that it was unwise to provide the letter with comments. However, I do not think that is what the accusation was about. If I understand correctly, Mr Segers blames him as follows. On 9 March, the Chamber did not hear the amount of 4.7 million due to the remarks made by former MP Van der Steur in the margin line. Is that the accusation that Mr Segers is making? If not, what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u4	I have told the Minister his own standard. His own goal in writing the letter was that the Chamber should be properly and fully informed. That was the purpose and that was why he wrote along. My question is this: it is almost a rhetorical question. Is the Chamber correct and fully informed? There was crucial information in the draft letter. That information was no longer in the letter that went to the Chamber. That is the point of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u5	I'll give it to Mr Segers. Isn't he aware that earlier that same day other news had come from the cabinet to the Chamber? That news also went to the media. The news was that the receipt was there, with the amount on it. When the questions were answered, the Court was already aware of the amount. What is the accusation that Mr Segers is making Minister Van der Steur?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u6	This is not about the receipt; I have said that before. This was about the memory of Secretary of State Bitches. That's what it was all about for two years. For two years, the Chamber has asked for that. Research has been done. Van Brummen went out, who wasn't allowed to speak to Teeven himself. There have been two Easting committees. This was about the memory of Secretary of State Teeven. This was written down, this was in the draft letter. The purpose of reading and writing along with Mr Van der Steur was to ensure that the Chamber is properly and fully informed. This was not about the amount, but about the memory of Secretary of State Teeven, who was quite accurate. The Oosting Committee gave a further compliment to Mr Teeven for that memory. He thought it was 4.8 million, but it was 4.7 million. That's the point. When the time came for the Chamber to be properly and fully informed, that information was removed from the letter. This happened after the intervention of the then MP Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u7	Of course, the Minister must do his own defense. I mean, I wasn't there. To be honest, I am very happy about that. Still, it's crazy. The Minister's making a comment. To be honest, I think he was quite right to ask that question. He asked: if this is the memory of the Secretary of State, why wasn't it reported to the Chamber earlier? I think that's a fair question. I think we would have all set it if we had seen it at the time. This was indeed at the heart of the discussion. I continue to point out to Mr Segers that the answers to those questions came after two directors had resigned, after the receipt had come up that day and after the Chamber, as well as the rest of the world, had heard: the receipt is right, and this is the amount. So why is that information withheld from the Chamber? The room had that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u8	If the MP Van der Steur was bewildered because he read for the first time the amount that was written there in black and white, then his bewilderment should have been many times greater when he saw that the sum had been taken out of the final letter to the Chamber and that old phrases and semantic solutions had been used in it, namely that Secretary of State Teeven did not have sufficient memory, that was not true, because he had an exact reminder and he was almost on the right amount and that it did not see the financial handling. We've been hearing those old phrases for two years. They weren't true and MP Van der Steur knew they weren't true, because he had read what the memory was. It was very concrete and saw the financial handling of the Bitch Deal. So he knew it wasn't true. If bewilderment should be read in his question, the question why this was not shared earlier, then that bewilderment should have been much greater when he received the final letter in which the amount had completely disappeared and in which one fell back on the old reflex, namely semantic cover, hold back and write down things that are not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u9	Finally, Mr President, because I see a circle coming. Why should he have been bewildered, according to Mr Segers? It was already on the street. It was not the case that a letter had been sent to the Chamber which lacked information about which he had asked questions. But the Minister must give his own opinion on this. Answers had been sent to the Chamber, two directors had just resigned and it had just come out that the receipt had been found anyway. What do you have to be bewildered about? It's already here! You knew it at the time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u10	What was on the street? On the street was that we now knew in black and white that what Nieuwsuur had previously revealed was true. How did we know? Because in the pits of V and J there was a file where they had extracted something that could have been taken out before. That's how we knew Newshour was right. What we didn't know and what all the investigations were aimed at was the answer to the question of what Secretary of State Teven remembered. We didn't know that. That's what Minister Opstelten wrote. That was taken out and kept quiet until the debate in December 2015, until Mr Oosting finally received the e-mail and had done nothing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. Especially on the day the VVD Prime Minister calls for normality, it becomes clear how his own people have cheated for years. No sooner did a moral apple return as quickly as a boomerang. Bas Haan's book reveals a distraught picture of the way the VVD operates in this government. You may lie and you may remain silent against the people and against the Chamber. You can bet the truth as an option, only when it suits you. In the meantime, we have had a complete trilogy of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u12	I'd say finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u13	I would have liked to start with the trilogy, but Mr Zijlstra can also cover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u14	I had planned to sit down for a while... We are having a debate now, and it is customary for us to leave suspicions and ideas in a debate, after which we ask a ruler whether our suspicions are correct or whether he has something to say against them. Mr Roemer, when I hear you, I understand that you share all the conclusions and accusations made in the book. Are there any reservations or have you reached your verdict yet? That was already the case in the media, but that is also the case in this debate. If you have already finished your judgment, then there is no point in talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'm going to ask myself if there's any point in talking about this. That's one. Two: may I remind Mr Zijlstra that this is the sixth point: the sixth! This Minister, who has already tabled a motion of censure, supported another motion of censure, and supported a motion of censure against the cabinet on this subject? And now we have a book by Bas Haan, with more revelations. Do you think it's weird that I've come to a fair conclusion by then? Of course, it is up to the Minister to defend himself, but I say quite honestly: he will have to come from a very good house if he is to be able to take away that feeling of credibility from me. Mr. Chairman. The trilogy. Oosting I was about how a criminal has been enriched by the Teevendeal and society has been fooled. Oosting II was about whether the receipt could have been found earlier and how this cover-up could have been created. Now there is Bas Haan's book on the reliability of the responsible VVD politicians and on whether our country is governed by honest and reliable people or by reckless opportunists. We knew that MP Van der Steur wrote letters from the minister to himself. The Minister is right about himself in the debate in December 2015. He left early the consultation in which the personal notes with the memories of Bitches were discussed. He says literally in the debate: then I got up and said: it does not suit me as a spokesperson, as a Member of Parliament, to take note of that information, because that information is not known to the Chamber. That's a lie. He may have gotten up and ran away, but not because he thought it inappropriate to take note of that information, but because he had that knowledge for a long time. As far as I'm concerned, that's the crux. This is about more than facts. It is about the basic attitude of the Minister and of the Prime Minister, that you not only tell the truth not only out of body retention, but that you deliberately cooperate in systematically misinformed or not informing the people and the House of Representatives. How should we trust a minister who, as a Member of Parliament, sabotaged the work of his colleagues and then lied about it as a minister? The Prime Minister also has a smooth handling of the truth. The discussion report with the memories of Teeven does not exist, according to the Prime Minister in the debate. Then he makes it into a word game. It would not be an official report, but the fact is that he had it in his hands an hour before the debate. On 8 March 2015, the Prime Minister's Ministry of AZ also received the draft replies, with the amounts that Teeven remembered. To this day, the Prime Minister insists that he has never seen these amounts and knew nothing about them. That is completely unbelievable. Under the leadership of this Prime Minister, withholding information from the Chamber is years and years. Couldn't the Prime Minister have saved a lot of damage and a lot of embarrassing debates on this subject by being honest right now? Isn't it the least the people of politicians can expect us to be honest and reliable? We do not need to repeat what has been said so many times today, namely that the deal that was made with Cees H. did not work. The fact that the people and the Chamber have been misinformed was purely opportunistic action. Create and hold on to your own truths. Beautiful appearance above hard facts. Or, as Bas Haan writes, they acted continuously out of purely political pragmatism and opportunism, not hindered by the truth or the facts. The trust is damaged. There is no need for lying politicians. Draw your conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber must be able to trust that ministers are telling the truth. In fact, the Chamber trusts that. That is our parliamentary democracy. The rulers are against appearances. After Van Brummen, after Oosting I and after Oosting II there is now the journalistic craftsmanship of Bas Haan, with new disturbing facts. This debate is no longer about the remarkable and wrongly qualified deal with a drug criminal by Oosting. This debate is about how the facts and the truth have been handled from the centre of power. For three years, the Chamber had to look for that truth as a detective himself. In addition, the view of MP Van der Steur was unprecedented. Not only did he know before the Chamber what Teven remembered, he also commented on questions of parliament with "very vulnerable." As a result, the fair answer was deleted. The Minister is now saying that that was not his intention. But then what was the intention? Then what was the intention? The minister says he left the e-mail at Oosting. Let me be absolutely clear: we are not blaming Oosting at all. The role of MPs was not his mission. It is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister to inform the Chamber. Why didn't he? The minister is closing himself in on a heroic role. 'Cause I thought he ran away when that infamous conversation report with Bitch's memory came on the table. But he didn't tell us he knew what that memory was 24 hours before. We asked him earlier about other versions of letters and press releases he had written along with, but we didn't get this one crucial e-mail. Why not? The Minister blames himself for having drawn the border too late in his contacts with Minister Opstelten. Where and at what point would he have wanted to draw that line for himself? Which brings me to the role of the Prime Minister. "There's nothing new going on," he says. Oosting had that e-mail from Van der Steur. Yeah, but we're not the room. So there is something new going on for the Chamber. How can the Chamber know about this if it is kept ignorant? Does the Prime Minister remember his words? "At all the relevant moments in this politically brilliant affair I have contact with the leading players." At all relevant moments. Then how likely is it that the most crucial information has escaped the Prime Minister? All his confidants knew that what Opstelten claimed couldn't be right. And yet the Prime Minister insists that he didn't know all along. Mr President, you will understand: that is difficult to believe. That is why I am now asking the Prime Minister about the following. Did the Prime Minister know in 2014 that Minister Opstelten's amount was wrong? If that's the case, then why didn't the Prime Minister go along with it? Because then this affair would never have become an affair. In such a politically brittle matter, something has not been seen, something has not been discussed and something does not know not an option for a prime minister. Ministers have no right to change. If officials have crucial information, it is up to the minister to charge if he does not know that, certainly a prime minister. It belongs to his direction to know the facts. That's what I expect from the Prime Minister. Politics can only solve problems in a confidence democracy. People assume that they have integrity, unruly politicians who serve the public interest and not their political interest. Today, in this house, only the answer to that one question is important: has the Chamber been misled? The answer to that question is, as far as my group is concerned, a question of trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u17	Madam President. Here we are again: the umpteenth debate after yet another incident with this failing Prime Minister and the blundering Minister of Security and Justice. It's not getting any better. After a secret deal with a drug lord and a top criminal, after covering up pieces via shredders, after insinuating conspiracy and writing along with press releases, after sitting on the chair of the retired political bunch and then making a mess of it, there are now the following revelations about the actual content of a new e-mail from MP Van der Steur to the then minister of V and J. Not only were the amounts taken out of the text at his command and withheld from the Chamber; the words on the sidelines, which we have seen in the meantime, show that Mr Van der Steur was concerned with anything but advice. It was ukazes, orders to take things away and adjust. For example, he writes in the margin: "remove," "this is bullshit," "modify," "vulnerable" and "not to draw unnecessarily to the minister." This is very bad. The Minister should of course have reported this spontaneously and in detail to the Chamber. He left this behind, so he chose again consciously to cover up the facts. But the greatest impotence, the most mist and the most important failure are not with Van der Steur, but with the man who may even call himself Prime Minister, Mr Rutte. I saw him on TV a few days ago at RTL Late Night with a face of someone who's had toothache for six weeks, talking incoherent bullshit texts about the latest revelations. He is a Prime Minister without direction, a Prime Minister without authority, a Prime Minister who will remember the Netherlands forever from his lies about €1,000 for every Dutchman, no more money for the Greeks and hands off the mortgage interest deduction. The Prime Minister told us on this file before that he had not seen the documents, or later he did, but only with a.what was it? "Angry Eye." The Prime Minister received documents, including the amounts, twice in his ministry, but says he never read them himself. After his meeting with drug dealer Rooie Ron in Amsterdam-Zuidoost, the Prime Minister immediately called in a panic with Mr Teeven to check whether there were indeed more deals with criminals that could leak. According to research journalist Haan, the Prime Minister has known since 2014 that this was a much higher amount, but still denies it to this day. As if this is not crazy enough, there is also the story of the VVD'er Teeven, who would have threatened an employee of another group here in the Lower House. I quote from the book: "He almost hits the employee's face, takes his index finger in his chest and says, "You will regret the day you were born." Those are mafia states, mafia states. With this third debate, we are really in part three of The Godfather. The VVD is not a party of law-and-order, but a mafia party of deceit and intimidation. The authority of godfather Rutte is getting worse every day, despite all the horse heads that VVD'ers like Opstelden, Teeven, Van Miltenburg and who knows later today also Van der Steur find in their bed. The Netherlands no longer believes this Prime Minister. A poll by EenVandaag from the day before yesterday showed that as many as 68% of the Dutch don't believe that Rutte didn't know that the House of Representatives was being misinformed. Put it in your pocket, Prime Minister. You are the most unreliable Prime Minister the Netherlands has known in a long time. I can't wait until March 15th. The same applies to millions of Dutch people. The sooner this cabinet of lies and deception is gone, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr. Chairman. The outcome of today's debate is already clear. There'll be one big loser. In the end, that is democracy. This not only harms the VVD, it not only harms the cabinet, it harms us all. Soon we'll all be campaigning again and the voters will come to us. Then it doesn't matter if you're MP, minister, list leader or candidate chamber member. We are all one pot wet: we in The Hague. Citizens' confidence is at stake. I'd rather not be standing here, but we're back here. Again. Compliments for investigative journalist Bas Haan, but in fact it is scandalous that a investigative journalist should be involved in bringing these facts to light, especially at this time of alternative facts. We must reduce this debate to the purely political question of whether the Minister of Justice has informed the Chamber properly, including his own actions as a Member of Parliament. Did he answer for this openly when he was a minister? Why do you have to ask these questions again? Imagine that. As a Member of Parliament, you are asked to be involved in answering questions. There's a lot at stake. You're shocked by the conceptual answers. You comment like "this is very risky," "vulnerable," "beware," "beware," "beware, this is bullshit." What impression do these notes make? Do you get the idea that this MP was trying to ensure that the Chamber was informed as well as possible, or does it intend to protect its own govern ment as well as possible? The Minister has to clarify his role and intentions today. Is it true that on 8 March 2015 when reading the draft answers to questions from the Lower House, he was given black-and-white information about memories of Secretary of State Teeven about the financial size of the deal for the first time? How does he explain that those answers have been changed in the final replies, so after his own comment? At that time, as MP, Van der Steur knows the contents of the interview report made by top official Roes from his interview. Nevertheless, Van der Steur says that he quit at the time the report was brought in at the Ministry. I quote the Minister from the debate following Oosting in December 2015. "I have risen and said: it does not suit me as a spokesperson and MP to take note of that information, because that information is not known to the Chamber." The impression I get is that the Minister was trying to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot at the time. Van der Steur got information about memories of Teeven, but pretends to operate flawlessly by not wanting to see the interview report himself. He didn't want to take note of the information he did have back then. I'm sorry, but on me, that makes the impression of hypocrisy. That's a tough qualification. I would therefore like to give the Minister the opportunity to convince me with his answers that this is not the case. The Prime Minister has always denied that he had knowledge of the extent of the Bitch Deal. According to journalist Bas Haan, there are several sources that say that the Prime Minister had that knowledge, even from the mouth of Teeven himself. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister. The draft replies from early March 2015 also go to the Ministry of General Affairs. Which version was this: the version that was edited by Van der Steur or the version in which the memories of Teeven were still mentioned, including the amount? What instructions did the top officials of the Ministry of General Affairs have? They knew about the interview report with Teeven, but did the Prime Minister say: "Don't tell me what it says in terms of amount"? If Opstelten and Teeven have resigned, the Prime Minister must have a meeting with MP Van der Steur as candidate minister. Then it is obvious to ask about the knowledge that Van der Steur had about the Tevendeal and about his involvement? Did Prime Minister Van der Steur ask what he knew and what he didn't know? Has the Prime Minister never thought: perhaps it is not wise to appoint a MP so involved in the same department? I'll come to a conclusion. Ultimately, this is about the confidence that the Chamber is properly, fully and actively informed by the Cabinet. We have had great doubts about this. It's up to the Cabinet to take that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister told the country in an expensive ad: "Be normal or leave." Exactly that same night another corpse comes out of the closet in the long story called the ticketing affair, the Bitch Deal. It doesn't seem to stop. Once again, confidence in our democracy has been seriously damaged by a VVD politician. This isn't normal. This case might as well have come from a cheap crime novel. The receipt didn't seem to be found, but when people started looking seriously, it showed up. From Fred's memory 5 million guilders had disappeared and notes on this had been taken by the shredder of Anouchka. It's not normal. So a cover-up and the worst part is: the Prime Minister knew about it and the Minister knew about it; he said sorry, but the Chamber was not fully informed. Again, not normal. As a member of parliament, the Minister and his officials were souffling to speak straight to something that is crooked. He wasn't a MP. He was a spin doctor. What made his minister vulnerable had to leave the letters. So is the memory of Bitch about the amount. He thought: "Keep the people and the Chamber ignorant, and then act as if nothing is wrong." Again, not normal. While this minister had to control the government, he gave advice on how his minister could be covered. This minister's still young career consists of an accumulation of flatters, but the loser of this issue is not Van der Steur, but those are the people in the country. Their trust is embarrassed by a party whose representatives keep each other's heads above their heads, by a party that breaks promise after promise. What did six years of VVD get you on Security and Justice? What did the crime fighters do? It's a mess. The police organisation is dissatisfied, officials are dissatisfied, the people in the country are dissatisfied. This is not normal either. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said in an expensive ad in the national newspapers, "Go normal or leave."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u20	Madam President. Every day tens of thousands of employees of the Ministry of Security and Justice are tackling insecurity and crime throughout the Netherlands. The Ministry is a guardian of the rule of law. It must therefore be pure, precisely in order to punish what is impure with authority. The employees need to clarify what others want to keep hidden. They need to find the truth where criminals want to cover it up. How can all those employees at the base do their job well if the supreme summit, the minister, doesn't work that way? Minister Van der Steur did not want to clarify matters as a member of parliament and as a minister. He was just trying to cover for them. It wasn't the truth he was looking for. It was just the political rescue of the VVD he was looking for. What does that do with trust in the purity of law enforcement? This week's publication shows once again how wrong the priorities have been over the past four years. The VVD wasn't there for the Department of Security and Justice. No, the Department of Security and Justice was there for the VVD. Everything had to give way to that. Minister Van der Steur said in this Chamber that as a Member of Parliament he wrote to the Minister of Justice's letters to inform the Chamber carefully and correctly. Is he still holding up what he said in the Chamber today? I can already hear the Minister say yes, but I will tell you why I have very, very strong doubts about it. Read the e-mail, which we have now finally received and which, of course, the Minister himself should have sent to the Chamber. Then what is the answer to those 99 questions? I quote the then MP Van der Steur. With one answer he writes: "Greatly no answer to the question." He doesn't say, "Give me the right answer." Then he'd be looking for the truth. No, he writes, "but maybe it's necessary to secure the future." In another answer, he writes: "This gives rise to trouble. Adjust." Not: this gets messed up, telling the truth. He doesn't tell me what the truth is. "Get out of here. Invites unnecessary discussion." Yeah, that happens to some facts, but the goal was to get rid of it. The crucial passage, in which the amounts are mentioned, must also go away, and also goes away, because "vulnerable." Don't send it to the Chamber, because as MPs, we want to know. No, don't send it. That is why this minister in the Chamber should never have said that he wrote along to put the truth on the table. We know it was different. Ministers had to be protected. For example, at the top of the Ministry of Security and Justice there is someone who as a MP tried to cover up the truth, and who then kept away from the Chamber as minister, which should have been clarified immediately, namely his exact role. And what is the role of the Prime Minister in this game of shadows? This is also evident from the publication. He knew more than we could have suspected so far. Bas Haan, for example, writes that several top officials said at the time that as far as they were concerned, I would like to give an example, the Chamber would never know that Director-General Roes spoke to Teeven, because they expected problems if the Chamber heard from that conversation, so if the Chamber knew that fact. That seems politically risky, they write to V and J. AZ officials also say in a letter to colleagues from V and J that, I quote again, the mp has one important point, namely that the letter should be known to the spokesmen. If it isn't the Prime Minister's responsibility! We now know, as it says in Bas Haan's book, that not just one or two but several officials report that on the crucial day that the MP Dijkhoff spoke with the MPs at the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Prime Minister had his ear on when he entered into the much-discussed consultation. That's always denied. Who's telling the truth? Some civil servants, or the politicians? I'm starting to doubt the politicians very much. That is why my question is: are these officials right? Has the Minister ever checked that out? And above all, if officials in the AZ Ministry do such political things, must the Prime Minister recognize that this falls under his direct political responsibility? He can't put it off on civil servants and say, "I didn't know about it." He knew about it. I'm rounding up. Everything that happened happened was under the Prime Minister's nose, because for him too, it was not the truth but the political life of the VVD executives. That justified this cover-up for him. But in the end one truth remains: pride comes before the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. Lies and deception, it's deep in the VVD capillaries. Instead of honesty and transparency surrounding the Bitch Deal, leaders of this party deliberately chose falsehoods and withholding information. Just to protect one's own image, the VVD summit came up with an unprecedented cover-up strategy. The Chamber was systematically misinformed and deceived for many years. We owe the truth to journalist Bas Haan. His book is more valuable than the two thick research reports of the Oosting Committee together. The conclusions on Van der Steur are clear. As MP and souffleur van Opstelten, he made concrete suggestions not to send crucial information about the amount to the Chamber and then lied about it as a minister. But this Prime Minister again showed his untrustworthyness. For example, the exact amount was well known at his ministry and he wrongly denied the existence of the secret conversation report by saying that it was a personal note. In the end, Prime Minister Rutte is also responsible for the political choice to hide the truth from the beginning. Together with Minister Van der Steur, he continued to lie out of unmixed political opportunism. Not the national but the VVD interest was paramount. That is why we have one question for the Prime Minister: are you not ashamed of this enormous deception? I'd like a response. I'm rounding up. After the departure of Opstelten, Teeven and Van Miltenburg it is now time for Rutte and Van der Steur to leave. The Netherlands deserves drivers who don't cheat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u22	Madam President. Ne bis in idem, every crook and every magistrate knows what this fine Latin stands for: a suspect should not be sued twice for the same fact, even if new information comes up later. That has everything to do with legal certainty, with knowing where you stand, with not always stirring up old cases, but once again drawing a line. That's how our rule of law works, even for the greatest criminal. This may be the case in criminal law, but the "ne bis in idem" principle does not apply in state law. And so it can happen that today the Minister of Security and Justice and the Prime Minister are again being brought before the public prosecutor's chair for a chamber debate on the same subject. When Nieuwsuur again called attention to the ticketing affair this week, I asked myself the question: is a new debate really fair, shouldn't you just have the courage to close the book once? There have been government officials who have resigned from the ticketing affair. Minister Opstelten quit. Secretary of State Teeven has resigned. From the cabinet's side is acknowledged: indeed, a lot has gone wrong, this could have been otherwise, this should have been different. From the Chamber's side, it has once again been strongly underlined what has gone wrong. On behalf of the SGP, I said in the debate in December 2015 that we strongly support the fact that the Chamber has been incomplete and incorrectly informed, and it is serious that the direction of the Prime Minister failed and that it was not right, the way in which MP Van der Steur was too closely involved in this issue. That's the judgment we made at the time. That is why, despite the previous resignation of two leaders, the SGP took the special step to support a motion of censure in order to make that judgment clear. Shouldn't you dare say now, a year later, that it's been beautiful and that we're not going to stay busy, especially in election time, where the noble drive to genuine truth finding can just be clouded by less exalted motives to hit the weak spots of another? Is it wise to go back to the debate? However, my group has supported today's request for a debate. She said: yes, we want to do that. The link between directors and parliament is based on confidence every day. It is essential for this confidence that the Chamber can rely on it to ensure that the information is sound and that directors speak the truth. If serious new allegations have been made by investigative journalists that rulers would have lied, it is right and proper that a good debate is taking place in the context of hearing and hearing. Many speakers have already raised urgent questions on this subject today. I'm not going to repeat those questions. Nor do I have any need to repeat those previous debates. A touch of ne bis in idem could use this subject. For the SGP, there is only one question in today's debate to both the Minister of Security and Justice and the Prime Minister: will you respond to the allegations that you would have lied or deliberately spoken falsehood towards the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u23	I can follow Mr Van der Staaij's speech. The role that the SGP sometimes plays in these issues is more a role of commentator than of someone who would like to lead the search himself. That brings me to the question whether Mr Van der Staaij has read the whole book. Were there any new cases in there for him, as he just put it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u24	I've tried to get the best of everything that's been put on the table. That has been a lot of pieces over time. The point that emerged in the broadcast of Newsuur was also new to me. We were not aware of the precise content of the comments made by Mr Van der Steur at the time. Here's what I've come up with. If I wanted to know in the previous debate, in which it was about the role, I could have asked. Then we could have made it as a chamber. At first I wondered if there was another new e-mail that people had kept out of it. That was not the case: it was an e-mail which, I understand, was sent from the Ministry itself to the Committee of Inquiry. At that time I did not need to see it again with my own eyes, because the conclusion had already been drawn: the role of MP Van der Steur went too far. For my judgment, I didn't need that e-mail back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u25	We were all outraged that a Member of Parliament was actively participating in a press release. The SGP also supported the motion at that time. We found it strange that a Member of Parliament was actively participating in a letter intended to inform, but did not. It is now even apparent that questions from not only the chamber members, but also those from MP Van der Steur himself, who was then one of the questioners, have been answered by himself. That is, as it turns out, not by giving more information, but by giving less information. In fact, out of the 23 changes he advised to make, 13 were meant to be deleted, so less to tell, or to change, which meant less information. Mr Van der Staaij has just indicated that questions have been asked. Does he join in? Have the questions that others have put been asked on his behalf?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u26	I have deliberately used the wording that several speakers have already raised pressing questions. I'm not going to repeat it, but I look forward to the answer. I refer to the remark'very vulnerable'. Well, that turned out to be indeed a remark that is very vulnerable, we now know. What exactly was the purpose, the scope, of that remark? A number of other times that letter explicitly states that MP Van der Steur said: remove; you should not do this. This is of a different order than saying straight away: take it away. If he had found that, he could have said so directly, according to the other notes on that letter. Then what was the point? I think it is quite right that this question should be put on the table again. I'm curious about the reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u27	We're pretending that those words "very vulnerable" are abstract. It is a bit like Mr Van der Staaij sitting with his accountant and saying that he wants to inform the Tax Administration that he has been working black for a weekend. The accountant says it's "sweer vulnerabilities" and then that weekend isn't reported to the IRS. That's exactly what happened. The part described by MP Van der Steur as "very vulnerable" disappears and is no longer available to us. The effect of the term "very vulnerable" was that it was withheld from us and from everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u28	That is the question now on the table. What was the point of that remark? What's the effect? Of course, it was a special coincidence that the receipt was then found. This brought the case into a different context. I don't need to answer for all of that. It is quite a special figure that we have all those notes that a Member of Parliament makes on a draft letter that goes to the Chamber. We are now going to interpret them publicly with each other. I have some sense of restraint. These are statements made by the current Minister in his role as a Member of Parliament at the time. Good questions have been asked. I'd like to wait for the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are having this debate together today, because once again there is a series of allegations to this Minister about the receipt issue. I'll be honest with you, I thought we'd drank that poison cup once with two reports and a whole series of debates. But apparently there were still a few drops in it. If questions arise again, my party feels it is only natural that we should debate them carefully and give the Minister the opportunity to refute the allegations. Even in election time, that should be normal. We have discussed this issue extensively in several debates and the investigations of the Oosting Committee. And now, seven months after the last debate, there is a book in which, according to several parties in this house, new facts of political relevance are revealed. The Minister stated earlier that he was of the opinion that he should have stopped contacting himself in his role as a Member of Parliament and the Department for reasons of principle, whether it was a matter of writing a press release or a letter or answering parliamentary questions. I agree with him on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u30	When I hear VVDs talking about the timing of this kind of problem, I always pay attention. Then I think of Minister Schippers, who talked about "dark forces" that would be behind it. Fortunately, that turned out to be defeated by Oosting, but now I hear Mr Zijlstra again say that he did this the week before that it was seven months after the debate. He actually suggested that Haan waited with that book. Could Mr Zijlstra go into more detail on that suggestion? Does he still have the idea that the underworld, political parties, journalists are conspiracying with something like "dark forces"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u31	There is a beautiful Dutch proverb that says: as the worth is, he trusts his guests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u33	I make a very factual statement: we had seven months ago... At that time I thought: that poison cup is empty; we had all the debates. We're seven months later now. You can check that out. I could be a day off. I'll admit that immediately. We're seven months later, and that's where we are now. That Mr Pechtold makes all kinds of suggestions: this debate is already about many other suggestions and interpretations. What I think this debate is about is getting facts straight. Frankly, we are very dependent on the Minister's response, which can provide the most answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u34	I am referring to the press release that Mr Zijlstra himself produced, namely: Zijlstra irritated at timing journalist. Here it came again, didn't it? So there was a timing of the reporter and he caused this. Over the past few years, this has been the VVD reaction. They were others, they were all wrong and they timed it at wrong times. It is really my idea that they are all VVDs who are involved from the very beginning: Swagerman, Teeven, Opstelten, Dijkhoff, Van der Steur...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u35	This is going somewhere, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u36	I wonder if it was an accusation against that journalist, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u37	No, not even today. I made and made a factual observation: it is seven months later. Unless Mr. Pechtold wants to tell me that I made a math error somewhere... We've had a lot of debates. On 8 June 2016, I say it out of my mind, we had the debate on the Oosting II Committee and that was about seven months ago. I had the hope that you already tasted it in my introductory note that that poison cup was once empty. I have sighed in that same debate: I have desperately looked in this file for non-VVDs, but I have not been able to find them. That's still true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u38	It's either a very big game or they're all in the same place around one problem. I agree with Mr Zijlstra that we are standing here far too often. He mentions a date, but I can still remember 16 December 2015, the day I turned 50, because then I got to debate the same thing here. I asked my first question on this because Mr Zijlstra's week suggested that the timing of the journalist had something to do with it. That's become a press release and so... I haven't seen the VVD fix it either. It was a bit like Schippers with her dark forces and those alu hat theories that were circulating for a while. I would also like to say that I am done with my questions to Mr Zijlstra on the procedure, and I would like to know from him that there is no reproach for journalists if there were any steering forces or whatever on this dossier. This is just journalistic work in which the truth is sought and what we as a democracy can actually be incredibly pleased with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u39	There's all these things tied up that I'm not gonna take care of. That's just not the case. We're seven months later. By the way, I don't know the whole press release. A press release we sent out? We did not send that out, I can assure Mr Pechtold. Someone, like Mr Pechtold, may have interpreted my statement 'we are seven months away and we are again'. That's right, because the irritation is there. That has nothing to do with a journalist's opinion or anything. That you can say that there is some irritation with me about... Well, irritation isn't the right word: there's some frustration with me about the fact that that poison cup didn't turn out to be empty yet. Yes, I dare acknowledge that immediately. That's a given, but that doesn't make it any more fun. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the Minister's office and the suggestions he had made in the past that they were not sensible. I'll share that. What is good is that all mails, including text suggestions including those of 9 March 2015, have been made available to the Oosting Committee without delay. That committee has carried out an in-depth investigation, and I have already said that it has produced two reports. The Committee has clearly informed the Chamber of the existence of these suggestions on page 149 of the first report. Everyone was able to read that report and nobody asked a question about it. I have to correct that. A reporter from the NRC did. A number of colleagues think this is the Minister's fault, but the Minister has made everything available to a committee that we have set up, which we have asked for. So I don't think this accusation is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr Zijlstra says that all the relevant material has been sent to the Oosting Committee. The Oosting Committee is not the House of Representatives. The Chamber has explicitly asked the Minister: are there any relevant documents and relevant e-mails that we would like to have on this subject? In fact, the minister said at the time: I don't think so, but I'm still going to look. He has stated: no, there is nothing more the Chamber should know. Meanwhile, he will send that information to Oosting and not to the Chamber, which explicitly and clearly asked for it. Surely that can't be other than deliberately not informing the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u41	No, I'm not following this one. Following the resignation of two directors and the appearance of the receipt, we know that history in the meantime, the Chamber has said quite clearly: this needs to be sorted out to the very bottom, all the information must be made available to a committee to be set up. We have helped greatly in the commissioning process, because we wanted to ensure that the committee was able to work with a good and clear mandate, a full mandate and all relevant information. That's what the committee got. No mail was withheld, but everything went to committee. We can say that the Minister should have sent that whole package to the Chamber at the same time, but we would have walked right through that committee. I find that reproach a little far-fetched. There are other accusations and the Minister must, of course, answer them. Serious allegations are being made at his address and he's the only one who can answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u42	I don't blame the Minister for sending that information to Oosting. The Minister was explicitly asked to send relevant information to the Chamber. Several MPs asked the Minister: are there any other e-mails relevant, specifically on this subject and would you like to send them to the Chamber? No, the Minister says, as far as I'm concerned, they're not here, but I'm gonna check it out. Then he lets you know that there is no relevant information and there are no e-mails the Chamber doesn't know about. That's what it turns out to be. He knew that, because he did send it to Oosting, while Oosting had a completely different assignment. He deliberately didn't send this e-mail to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u43	You make all the information available to a committee of inquiry requested and mandated by the Chamber. You'll get one of those questions. Now I am going to interpret, but I think this debate is interwoven with interpretations. I personally find it perfectly understandable that you would say that all relevant e-mails have been made available. They went to that committee and they reported on it. That's on page 149 of the report; we've been able to read all that. The suggestion is awakened as if it has been tried to push that mail away. That e-mail was just given to the committee. The committee wrote that down in a public report, so everyone could read it. That e-mail has not suddenly appeared in Mr. Haan's book. Its existence was known. It was described in a report that we were able to read ourselves. Then you can enter into the discussion that concerns Mr Roemer here: should he have sent it to the Chamber, were there any relevant e-mails? I admit immediately that it is an interpretation, but I can imagine that as a minister at that time you think: I have made everything available, there is indeed nothing else and it is in the report. Anyway, Mr Roemer may think otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yeah, but it's different, too. The Chamber explicitly asks, precisely on this subject, to send all relevant e-mails to the Chamber. The minister says they're not here. He even says he's looking for it again, then he says they're not there. At that moment, however, he knew damn well that the mail was there. Because he's been writing in it himself. He knew about it because it was sent to Oosting as well. He has even seen that Mr Oosting has devoted no more than one sentence to it, and nothing else. He then simply refused to send it to the Chamber, which the Chamber had asked for. This is not only misinformed the Chamber by saying that the information is not there, but it also does not fulfil the obligation under Article 68, which states that you must actively inform the Chamber. So it's a double mistake!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u45	I think the situation was different. This is Mr Roemer's interpretation. I just expressed my interpretation. The Minister sent all relevant information to a committee of inquiry. I think there were boxes full of information, but the Minister will have to say so himself later. The Chamber had asked him to send that information to the Committee of Inquiry. She also asked for everything to be made available. That's what happened. Now it appears in the report. I imagine that as a minister you have no other opinion than that you have made everything available and that there are no new e-mails anymore. That thing was known. That e-mail wasn't put in a drawer somewhere, so no one talked about it. No, the e-mail was known to the committee. It's in a report and it's been discussed here. Then what was muffled away?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u46	This is a glimpse of the world of the VVD. Drug money can be laundered. Fred Teeven did. He laundered millions of dollars worth of drug money. But you can't launder information to the Chamber. What Zijlstra says is true from A to Z for nothing. At the start of the debate on 8 June, my colleague Verhoeven asked for the following. "I would like to give the Minister or the Cabinet five minutes before we start to make sure that there are no other letters from the Minister of Security and Justice working with text editors. As far as I am concerned, we can start the debate when the Minister says that there are absolutely no, because there is only one, and that is this one." That debate was held after Oosting. In addition, Oosting was not looking for the activities of MP Van der Steur. Oosting investigated the VVD's allegations that there were too few techs running around those ministries that would be able to look up the receipt. So I'm gonna say again, "Oosting wasn't about this." Oosting also refuses to accept Zijlstra's accusation as his mission would have been to assess the behaviour of MP Van der Steur. That House debate explicitly asks for these changes. Mr Zijlstra can tell me where those changes were clear in the Chamber debate and where those changes were to be found in the Chamber at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u47	This is no different from the discussion I just had with Mr Roemer. You can think different about this. That is evident from this debate. I am not aware that I have just accused the Oosting Committee of anything. Mr Pechtold really needs to clarify that. The Oosting Committee has done a good job on the basis of a huge amount of information. The committee has received all the information. I can imagine that, when asked if there is any other information, the answer is 'no'. Because everything was made available. And yes, I also understand the interpretation of Mr Roemer and Mr Pechtold. They say it was just in the report, but maybe you could have sent it back to the Chamber, apart from the report it just says it is. But it wasn't hidden, because it's also just in the report. Something has not been moved somewhere; it's just in the report and we could have read it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u48	If this becomes the cabinet's approach in a moment's time, it may be a short debate as far as I am concerned. This thin and unbelievable line of defense really makes no sense. The reason you're accusing the Oosting Committee is because you're suddenly making the research assignment so broad that the Oosting Committee should have reported everything that she found of strange facts. It was already a blasphemy that we needed Oosting II, after we first had the investigation of Van Brummen, which the cabinet had been scraping, and the investigation of Oosting I, in which not everyone told what was happening. I'll make my case even harder. In that debate Verhoeven asks: is there more? No, so the debate begins. Months later, but also last year, on September 1st, the e-mailbox of MP Van der Steur could suddenly be opened. The Minister then writes: I searched my mail account and I found a version of the letter with further comments from MP Van der Steur of 2 June 2014 in it; I make this public. When he did that search, he also found those other copies and said to himself: Jeez, 23 changes of which 13 to erase and send; I will send them as well. No, not again! Mr Zijlstra, I am not in the mood for word games.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u49	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u50	I'd say change the line of defense. Don't go telling MPs who make a firm statement that we're drawing our conclusions. The first to draw conclusions was the VVD. She said nothing new. Well, it's turned out to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Pechtold pointed out that when Mr Van der Steur's chamber mailbox could still be unlocked via backup tapes, Van der Steur encountered an email that had not yet been reported in the trial. He sent that e-mail to the room right away. He couldn't send that e-mail to the Easting Commission, because it was already done. All previous documents were made available to the trial and to the Oosting Committee. The Chamber obtained it on the basis of its information position. Mr Pechtold does not like that, but I am not accusing the Oosting Committee of anything. I want to take that away again. That committee just did a good job. She wrote in her report that the then MP Van der Steur made notes in that mail of 9 March. The committee has indicated that this has happened. It's on page 149. That's what she did nicely. That's what it says, so no charge! I can't say that enough, because before you know it, it's gonna be a headline. That committee just did a good job. That's my point. Mr Pechtold may disagree with that. The Minister did so at the request of the Chamber. However, he did so at the request of the cabinet itself, which said: we are really done with this dossier; everything has to come up and be sent to the committee. The only way to get it up is to send all the information to the committee. Everything's been sent there. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u52	I find it increasingly difficult to understand the terms of reference of the MPs of the VVD. In the past, MP Van der Steur helped Minister Opstelten when he was in trouble. Now Minister Van der Steur is in trouble and what is the MP Zijlstra doing? He's only doing one thing: protecting Minister Van der Steur. Mr Zijlstra, I would like to tell you one thing: our task and your job is not to check whether the Chamber asks the questions you think are necessary, but to check whether the Cabinet gives the answers that are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u53	It is my job to indicate the position of the VVD Group on this issue. I will ask a few more questions in a moment, and I will make a number of observations. I have a controlling task vis-à-vis the cabinet and I have the task of expressing my group's position. Mr Buma suggests that my group is a sort of protection wall, which has no other task than to keep a ruler out of the wind. I think that is a good suggestion on the basis of what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think colleagues have experienced this differently. At least that goes for me. But I'll go back to the content and I'll tell you why it's important. Then you have to turn 180 degrees, from box-K to the House of Representatives. Why is this information relevant, even if you say it was at Oosting? In the debate in June 2015, the current Minister of Security and Justice of the VVD said: everything I did, I did with some kind of noble purpose to give the truth and the right information to the Chamber. Then you could say in relation to what Oosting wrote, namely that he knew that information was there, in itself: okay, so apparently that's what the minister did. That wasn't good, but it was noble. But now that we know this, you too cannot deny that what the Minister did was not at all better to inform the Chamber. He took from the information what was displeasure for the VVD. That's new. The fact that the Minister said in a debate in the Chamber: I helped you, while everything shows that it is not, that is serious, that is new, and you should be angry about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u55	If you don't mind, I won't be angry until it's been established that the allegations are correct. In my view, at the beginning of my speech, I indicated that it is a good thing that we are having a debate, because if such allegations are made, they must be referred back to the Minister by the Cabinet. My emotion of anger or satisfaction will depend on the answer. It can't be true, let's just say that if there are allegations, even if they have been expressed by a passionate investigative journalist, who are by definition true. I think the Minister should have the opportunity to reply. After that, I'll judge. That he will have to have a good reply is obvious, because they are serious allegations. I'm not running away from that either. But I think we should be careful that we have a judgment right away. I have heard in a number of contributions, and already in the press, that the verdict has already been reached. Then we're not controlling either. In our controlling role, which Mr Buma just mentioned, there are questions to be asked. In the debate I had with Mr Segers, he said nicely: I have a number of questions, then I have a debate and then I have a judgment. That is what we are doing and we are waiting for the Minister to reply and we know what his representation of reality is. This debate has a lot of interpretations in it, and that is why we must be careful. It has to be about what really happened. There will no doubt be an interpretation here and there, but this must be done on the basis of the whole pallet and not just on the basis of the fact that a investigative journalist says something. That investigative journalist wants to make an accusation, but the fact that he does does doesn't mean that it's true, because every human being makes a mistake sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u56	The Minister is about to say that all the sentences he had as adjustments were indeed intended to inform the Chamber carefully and correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u57	You already know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u58	We know, because we already have that letter. It is therefore a question of our own interpretation. We had a letter in which the Minister explained once again in detail that the advice to remove something was given because it called for discussion, which is usually the case with information in this Chamber. That was a reason not to give that information. The fact that a large part of the question was not answered was perhaps necessary in order to safeguard the future. But all this was apparently meant to inform the Chamber better. I can't imagine you, if you read that, wouldn't agree with that. I can tell you what I think: that is not better to inform the Chamber, that is not to answer because it may be necessary to secure the future. That's totally different. I just want you to do your job as a representative of the people and not say: the Minister is going to say that it was all to inform the Chamber, because we already know that. That's gonna be okay with the VVD and we're gonna move on. What do you think of this kind of adjustment, in relation to the Minister's sense: I wanted to inform the Chamber well and correctly with my notes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u59	I assume the Minister's intentions, unless his response shows that he is not. Mr Buma seems to be in a different direction. A number of things are indicated. If a Member of Parliament comments on a passage and asks why, if this is the memory of the Secretary of State at the time, that has not been reported to the Chamber before then, I honestly think that is a very fair question. Then you can interpret: was it meant to take that away, wasn't it? The funny thing is that the Member of Parliament did say that immediately, I admit, in a number of places, 'delete', which you may have a judgment on, but he did not say that about that passage. So if he thought things should be deleted, he wrote it down. Where it does not say that it should be deleted, the conclusion of some of us here is that he apparently meant 'delete', even though he had written it down where he meant it. I can't judge if he forgot to write that down there or anything. It is up to him to say that; that is why we are holding this debate. But Mr Buma is right in saying that this is a debate in which, in the end, perhaps you will never be able to give a factual answer on all points. That's what we have in politics. This will have to be demonstrated in response to the Minister's response. If Mr Buma does not mind, I think it is up to me to check that I would like to hear the Minister's response to the allegations, which are serious, and that Mr Buma will not hear from me until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u60	First of all, Mr Zijlstra forgot in the quote about that one passage that the Secretary of State... No, the MP at the time, I've already completely lost what the role at the time was "very vulnerable." Well, if somewhere is "very vulnerable," that certainly doesn't encourage an official to continue with that text. If he had wanted to leave that text, he should have said: beware, not take it away, because this is important information for the Chamber. That would have been normal. That's one. In addition, I am pleased that Mr Zijlstra has now, at least on all these other issues, recognised that it was indeed a question of removing it in order to avoid discussion or because it would cause problems in the future. That is not, therefore, the provision of more information to the Chamber, but less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u61	No, Mr Buma is now trying to put words in my mouth. I note the comments made by Mr van der Steur at the time; we have read them. You can look for certain interpretations. Sometimes the comments were clear. Sometimes he said, "Drop." In a number of cases you can also very well deduce that the answer will then become much clearer. It is also useful if we get clear answers instead of answers you think: what does it say? We sometimes see this here; that is not limited to V and J. When things like that get clearer, that helps. But it's not a party, you don't have to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'm looking for those last kind of self-reliant remarks. Occasionally, Mr Zijlstra makes such comments, for example when he looks for a non-VVDer in this whole dossier and does not find it. That's a charming self-reliative ring. At the same time, I am surprised at what he says about the Oosting Committee and about the e-mail that was shared with the Oosting Committee, which would clear everything and solve everything: that e-mail was there and the committee should have made its opinion on it. That will only be on page 149 of the Eastern Committee II. Following the report of the Oosting Committee I, we had a debate. That was eight or nine months after that e-mail was sent. During those eight or nine months, first MP Van der Steur and then Minister Van der Steur could share that mail, first of all with the committee. The e-mail is not mentioned in the report of the Oosting I Committee. He could have shared the e-mail with the Chamber, but that didn't happen. I'd like a reflection on that. All these months, that hasn't happened. It was only in the report of the Oosting II Committee that this surfaced, on page 149. Then the line of defense is: you didn't ask about it. Isn't it the duty of a Member of Parliament to share that information, which was so crucial?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u63	I'm just trying to put things in place in the order of time. The MP Van der Steur sent that e-mail. Just after that, I think the same day, it became known that the receipt had been found. Those are also of those facts that are relevant. An e-mail has been sent with comments about texts. Then a few things happened: the receipt was found and rulers resigned. That was all in the media; we have all been able to take note of that. That too was a rather relevant change in reality, because at that time, quite frankly, a lot of things were out of date. After all, the news was on the streets and it was no longer the question whether or not it was 4.8 million or 4.7 million and so many million. These are also relevant changes. Once again, I would like to hear the Minister's presentation on that point in a moment. I'd like his explanation for that, because there's also a "how shall I put it?" Rejecting facts. Of that you can say: I understand that that did not happen, because a lot had happened by now. On the same day, a minister and a secretary of state had resigned because the receipt had been found. Then those written questions were sent to us. I believe that was the last action of then Minister Opstelten. Then he resigned. It's not like nothing happened. I can imagine that this also plays a role as a whole, but that is my interpretation. That is the same discussion I had with Mr Roemer. Only my interpretation doesn't matter that much in that sense. It's about what the minister thinks. Only then will I be able to judge whether my interpretation is correct or whether there may be another reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u64	In Oosting II this is an important fact. Mr Zijlstra has referred several times to Oosting II. It's in there, on page 149. If this is of great importance in spring 2016, how can it be obsolete a year earlier? That cannot be out of date, all the more so because this Minister, the Member of Parliament at the time, had applied a standard of his own. About the moment he was in a meeting and the dg came up with a discussion report and was about to reveal the memory of Secretary of State Teven, he said: then I had to get up; that was the limit for me, because I would hear something I shouldn't know because I would know more than my fellow roommates. He knew. He had crossed that line hours before because he had started writing in the margin. He crossed the line he himself drew in the debate in December 2015. He's moved on. He hasn't shared crucial information, which was so important to Oosting II, for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u65	At that time, the Member of Parliament said: I did not want that information. That is what he said in his letter of Tuesday. Because he didn't want to know what was in it. He didn't know if those amounts were in it either. A causal link is being established, and it is only a question of whether there is a causal link. We would like to hear that too, but Mr Segers has already asked that question. It's a little special that we're about to say that he should have stayed even longer to hear what was in that interview report. While we had all noticed that he should have left sooner. He has drawn the line at some point: now I come to a point with a personal note so it was displayed at that time by the official concerned, and I do not want to know. Has that been a good judgment or not? I think we'll be able to come up with that in the course of the day. But that is the decision taken by the Member of Parliament at the time. He said: now I come at a time when I get personal notes from an official, and I do not want that. Honestly, I get that. He himself has indicated that he should have stopped even earlier. That, too, is justified. It would be strange if we now said that he should have stayed a little longer, because he would have been able to take note of those notes. Then I guess we're a little inconsistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u66	It's not about an official's memory or a conversation report. It's about the memory of Secretary of State Bitch. That was the norm that Minister Van der Steur proclaimed here in December 2015 looking back at Oosting I. Then he used the following standard: if I get information that I do and my colleagues don't, then that's the time to stand up and leave. That was the norm. He wasn't allowed to get any extra information that other MPs didn't have. That's where he drew the line. It was exactly that line he had crossed hours before, because he got information in a draft letter, which we haven't had for years, until Bas Haan's book appeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u67	I don't think it's entirely true, but we're about to hear it from the Minister. By definition, he had information that we didn't have, because he looked into answers. This applies to more Members of Parliament. At least, it was, because I hope everyone learned something from it. There were also other MPs, and not only at this ministry, who could sometimes look at letters before they went to the Chamber. You get that sometimes in a coalition band; then you see if you agree. That happens and at that moment you have more information than others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u68	This isn't a detail. This was the jumping point: the memory of Secretary of State Bitches. That was the point. That wasn't a detail of: well, I knew a little bit more than...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u69	You didn't hear me use the word "detail," did you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u70	No, but sometimes you know something more. If you feel sorry for yourself in a letter, you know something more than others. However, this is not something anymore, this is the crucial point that we have been discussing for years and which three committees of inquiry have been looking for. No detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yes, and that was revealed that same day; it came out that same day. That is why I have just said in reply to another question that this did not happen in some sort of vacuum. It happened one day, the comment was made and a few hours later, somewhere in the afternoon, the message came: the receipt has been found and this is the amount. It showed that Nieuwsuur was right. Then a few hours later two rulers resigned. All this has happened, and I think that is also relevant in the total. So I'd like to get a reflection from the Minister on that, but, well, I'm saying that for the umpteenth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u72	The fact that the receipt was found that day is totally irrelevant. The point was that a concept was written with those amounts based on the memories of Bitches, even before the receipt was found. It is relevant that the then MP Van der Steur proposed corrections in an e-mail before the receipt was found. It is relevant that the Chamber could have been informed about the memories of Bitches at least a year before, because they were already known. In fact, from day one that Mr. Teeven served as Secretary of State in the Cabinet, he knew exactly what he was talking about thanks to his memories. All this time, until the receipt was found and Nieuwsuur had done his work and done an excellent job, it was chosen to keep it under the hat. That's crucial. That coincidentally that same day that receipt was found is totally irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u73	I think we're talking past each other now. The accusation is that Mr Van der Steur was not "very vulnerable" at that time after he wrote down... I just need to see what it said. "Very vulnerable, why hasn't this been reported to the Chamber before," or something like that, "why hasn't this been reported before?" A very fair question. I do not know who just asked, I think it was Mr Segers, and I thought that was a very good question, namely: If, when those answers came and this was not in it, then you should get angry because it is not in it. That's why it's relevant. That would be true if that information had not been on the streets by now, but it was now on the streets. That's why it's relevant. I can't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u74	It is really sad that Mr Zijlstra wants to keep putting this under his hat. It's two things. One: a concept was written when the receipt had not yet been found. So the facts were known at the Ministry. So it could have been brought to the attention of the Chamber a year earlier with the interview report or whatever you want to call it. They didn't deliberately choose to do that. The other reproach to the Minister is that he did not send his e-mail to the Chamber despite repeated questions from several Members of Parliament. Mr Zijlstra is trying to cover this up by saying that a receipt had already been found and that it was already on the street. The Chamber and the Netherlands and the journalists are knowingly and knowingly for a long time remembering information about the amount when it was known. That is a painful observation. Two: that which the Minister had interfered with as a Member of Parliament, he willingly and knowingly did not send that conscious e-mail to the Chamber. Two big, gross, heavy accusations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u75	Why don't you peel it off? First of all, let's get to the first point. The Chamber could have known a year earlier. That's right. That is what we have all established, and that is why Minister Opstelten resigned when it appeared in the note of the DG that that reminder was indeed mentioned. That's right. We have had that debate extensively. That concludes Mr Opstelten's political life. Now the question why the phrase "vulnerable" has not been mentioned before. To be honest, I think that is a very fair question. Many spokesmen say that they want to cover something up, but that is not what it says at all. Given the long history of this dossier, I am a bit done with it now, I can imagine that people are wondering what this means again. I can imagine that; I will admit that honestly. But I don't think this is enough. I believe that a ruler who was there should also be able to show in all honesty what is happening and what his experience is. It's only after that I'm gonna judge, not before. Mr Roemer asks me to do so earlier. From his speech it became very clear that he has already finished his judgment. He said the answer should be good, but with everything he said, it was done. That's not how I feel. It is a matter of serious accusations and I would like to hear what his defence is about. As I said, it is normal for us to debate this, because these allegations must be refuted. I do not want them to be secretive about that either, because they are serious. I would like to endorse the Minister's final words in his letter of last Tuesday, in which he says that this file 'does not give a good picture' and'many mistakes have gone wrong'. I would almost call that a "political understatement." At the same time, it does not give a licence to accuse this minister of lying in advance, as it did. Doing that is not asking the question of trust. No, that's giving the judgment of confidence in advance. Of course it's election time, but that's out of bounds. That's not normal. I would like to hear from this Minister his reflection on the allegations he has made. It's only after that that a judgment fits us. That's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u76	This week, Mr Zijlstra took a few Members of Parliament to measure their judgment, but today he says: they are very serious allegations and they need to be investigated. But an hour after the publication of the news the VVD and Mr Zijlstra already called out: no new facts, everything has already been investigated and known. Who was the first to have their verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u77	I think I have said one from second on: they are serious allegations, which will have to be answered clearly. I didn't make a judgment that there's nothing wrong or that it's nothing. I do not know where Mr Pechtold gets that, but at least they are not my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u78	From that gentleman there, the Prime Minister, among other things: nothing new; all known, has already been investigated. So I'd say, "Here he is." He came first with a judgment and said: everything has been investigated, nothing new. Now I hear the VVD group chairman say that these are very serious allegations that must be refuted. To be honest, I think that is a better attitude than that of the Prime Minister, but I also think that Mr Zijlstra should not pretend here that other Members of Parliament are already ready to give their opinion as the Prime Minister, who had already finished his opinion, can also be questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u79	I note, as I have done with the regulation, that if a number of parliamentary groups indicate that the Minister is lying and cheating that his literal texts are ready for judgment. That was the reason why I wanted to have the debate last Tuesday, because then we are not going to ask all kinds of questions; the judgment has already been given. I don't think we should be seeing each other like this. Mr Pechtold may well come to that conclusion at the end of this debate. Then he weighed it. But if you do that in advance, you must have the debate immediately. Then you shouldn't wait another two days, but you should say "show balls and debate."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u80	Before I give the floor to Mrs Chicken of the PvdA, I propose that we suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u81	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. Seven months ago, we had indeed hoped that this dossier could be definitively closed. Issues of integrity affect us all, politics but also governance, and therefore are never good for us as a whole. Moreover, we must also be self-critical when new facts come to light. Have we done enough of our parliamentary work? Nevertheless, we are back here again. Once again, there have been major questions surrounding the so-called Teven deal and the ticketing affair. It is our role and responsibility to call the Minister to account. The Minister has been instructed to provide a firm answer to all questions. In any case, the Labour Party would like an answer to the following questions. If the Minister's comments in the margin were intended to inform the Chamber as well as possible, what did he do after he saw that the information that was not sent to the Chamber on Monday was not in it? After all, the Chamber had explicitly asked about the memory of Secretary of State Teeven. The Minister also stated on several occasions that this information should have been sent to the Chamber earlier. My next question follows on from this. On 9 March, then MP Van der Steur left the meeting at the Ministry because he did not want to get acquainted with the confidential conversation report. Would this not have been the right time to make it clear that the memory of Secretary of State Teeven was also crucial information and should nevertheless have been sent to the Chamber? Good information to the Chamber is also a general responsibility of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u83	I have two factual questions. The first is as follows. Were the draft replies sent to then MP Van der Steur also sent to the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr Recourt did not receive the draft replies to which Mr Van der Steur replied at the time. That's also in Bas Haan's book.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u85	My second question concerns a question that Mrs Kuik asked herself. In my view, the outcome of this whole process of editing and the letter that was eventually sent to the Chamber can already be judged. The concept contained crucial information, because it contained the memory of Secretary of State Teeven. It's been taken out. Has that actually informed the Chamber correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u86	I believe that information on the memories of Secretary of State Teeven should have been sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. The question that arises now is what role it played at the time in ensuring that it was sent to the Chamber and what steps it took as a minister to ensure that the Chamber was given that information in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u87	These are questions to the Minister, but I am now asking the PvdA Group in its opinion on the difference. The concept of Secretary of State Teeven's memory has not been sent to the PvdA Group. The letter that was sent to the Chamber in the end states that Secretary of State Teeven has insufficient memories. With that last letter, has the Chamber been fully informed, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u88	No, the Chamber was not fully informed at that time, but we had already reached that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u89	Please continue, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the Prime Minister's responsibility. We would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to Bas Haan's statement that he would have known earlier that it was more than 2 million. If not, why did the Prime Minister not ask Mr Teeven earlier and more in-depth about his memories? The Prime Minister keeps saying that it would not be right for the state to ask Teeven, the then Secretary of State, about his previous position. The PvdA Group finds that answer rather formalistic. If the truth could have surfaced sooner... Does the Prime Minister agree with the Labour Party that it is also part of his responsibility to step over these kinds of formal lines when it comes to such crucial matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mrs. Kuik's question lived with me, too. Would you mind if I expanded the question? The Prime Minister didn't actively ask Bitch, he says. It has now become clear that it was known at the Prime Minister's Ministry itself both to his adviser and to his political assistant. It is very difficult to maintain that it was circulating so close to the Prime Minister's circle, but apparently he did not continue to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u92	Without taking Mr Pechtold's words literally, that question has now actually been put to the Prime Minister. I'm closing up. After two thick reports this week there is a third report: the book of Bas Haan. That book sketches a disenchanting picture of the Ministry of Security and Justice and politics. Minister Van der Steur and his Secretary of State have taken important steps in the Ministry to achieve renewal, in order to achieve a new culture. I am grateful to them for that. Nevertheless, Minister Van der Steur also has an involvement in that ancient culture, the culture of covering, concealing and twisting. The question that needs to be answered today is to what extent it can be reckoned with today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u93	I have had Mrs Kuiken's last sentence to address my question. She said: we have already found that the Chamber has not been properly and fully informed. When exactly did we find that out before?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u94	I have not done all the other debates, but, of course, we have already found that we felt that the Chamber should have been informed at an earlier stage about various stages of the Bitch Deal and the receipts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u95	That's not what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u96	Then you must specify your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u97	I was very specific and I will try to be even more specific. 9 March there is a concept in which the memory of Secretary of State Teeven is present. That's a draft letter to Chamber. That memory was taken from the letter that goes to the Chamber. That's new in Bas Haan's book. That's new information. That is the reason for this debate. My question was: what is your opinion on the final letter that went to the Chamber? Is that correct and fully informed? You said no, and we have seen that before. We had not seen that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u98	I believe that this information was appropriate in the replies of 9 March and that the Court was therefore not sufficiently informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u99	The objective set by Mr Van der Steur at the time, namely to ensure that the Chamber is properly and fully informed, was therefore not achieved with that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u100	That objective was not achieved with that letter, that is correct. That is why we have this debate, precisely because there is a very solid story and there are a lot of critical questions that the Minister will have to answer in his present capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u101	I notice that Mrs Kuik is so much milder than Mr Recourt earlier this week. He was talking about "primarily heavy weather." And now I hear there's got to be answers to questions. What is it now? With everything that has happened, are we talking about 'public weather' or is this a debate that, as far as the PvdA Group is concerned, deals with a number of questions to be answered, and then on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u102	No, it's a very serious debate. There are new facts, there is a new letter, which we as a Chamber have not seen before, namely a concept that has not been sent to the Chamber. That raises a lot of questions. I've been asking questions here. That calls for a very firm defence from the Minister. In this respect, I repeat that there is a serious state-law issue here. The Minister will have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mrs Kuik now repeats three times that this letter does not inform the Chamber sufficiently and wrongly. My question is: who is responsible for that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u104	Formal... If we look at who was responsible at the time, it was Opstellen. The question now is to what extent do we now hold the Minister responsible in his role as a Member of Parliament and as a minister. That is why I have asked a number of solid questions, which I would like an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u105	I think it is clear from the PvdA, but I think it should remain clear. As the PvdA group chairman, you say three times: the letter sent at that time by MP Van der Steur is incomplete and incorrect information. Then, strictly speaking, a few more hours of set-ups will be responsible for that. After that, strangely enough, that is not only Van der Steur as minister but also Minister Van der Steur as captain. So it is the conclusion that Van der Steur informed the Chamber about this fact incorrectly and incompletely. That's what Mrs. Chicken says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u106	Those are your words. We are having the debate now. I have asked a number of very critical and firm questions, both about his role as current minister and his ministerial responsibility as well as about his role as MP. That role must be extended to his role as minister. That is why a question of confidence could be put on the table, but you should always draw conclusions only if you have had the debate and if you have given the Minister an opportunity to reply. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr Kuik rightly says that the Chamber was misinformed and wrongly informed in that letter and that this should have been otherwise. A very clear observation! She added that this was done under the responsibility of the then Minister, Minister Opstelten. My question to Mrs Kuik is: what has this minister done since he was responsible to get that letter and information to the Chamber? All I've ever heard him say is I ran away on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr Roemer, that is a very fair question. That is precisely why I have put these questions to the Minister in my speech. What has he done in his term as a Member of Parliament and what has he done in his period as Minister to get that information to the Chamber as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u109	I understand that, given your memory and the memory of your group, there is no answer to that at the moment. We do not recall that the Minister has genuinely tried to correct that error and to inform the Chamber after he became a minister. You can't remember. I don't remember. All these other MPs can't remember. I agree with you that he must then come up with a very good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr President, I would like to try again. I would like to ask Mrs Kuik what she thinks about two letters in concept. They did not go to her group, but to Mr Van der Steur as MP of the VVD. He has made some comments on this. When you read it afterwards, you can see that they were quite compelling. Eventually, there's gonna be a letter that doesn't contain it. We all saw that this minister didn't give that information to the Chamber after that either. The excuse "later that morning or afternoon the receipt was found and we knew the amount" does not, of course, relieve that minister of the duty to report it to the Chamber. Mrs. Kuik already knows he didn't do that. The answer to the question of what the MP Van der Steur, later Minister Van der Steur, did to give that information to the Chamber, is that he did not do so! Mrs. Kuik may ask, but we already know he didn't. What does the chairman of the Labour Party think of the fact that the VVD, Mr Van der Steur, has been messing around in the letter, that the sums have been taken out of the letter and that he has done nothing to restore it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u111	I have said a number of times that I do not approve of the draft letter being different in this respect from the letter reached by the Chamber. I want to know what the Minister did at the time as a Member of Parliament or as a minister to ensure that this information reaches us. However, I do not draw any hard conclusions on this until we have given the Minister the opportunity to answer it, because we would not have to have this debate. That's how it works in accountability. You ask questions that are very critical and ask for a firm reply, but you also give the Minister the opportunity to reply to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u112	Sure. I'm not asking for a final conclusion from you either. We will after the Minister has replied. But you do have an opinion now, don't you? You know the Minister didn't do anything to get those figures back to the Chamber, don't you? When he was rooting in that margin, which removed the amount, he didn't know that the receipt would be found a few hours later. It was not his intention to inform the Chamber, but to keep it away from the Chamber. We know that we did get that information through the receipt found, but never because of this minister, then MP. Of course, we are going to ask what he thinks and what he has done, but you do have an opinion on that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u113	I have already indicated that I have very critical questions about this. Your tone may be different from mine, but in essence we have the same questions. Let the Minister give us a reasonable answer to that question. Then, in the second term, we can make our own judgement on this. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u114	If the difference is just the tone, then we come a long way today. I have a second question for the chairman of the Labour Party, now on the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has received twice the same letter as Mr Van der Steur, the answers to the parliamentary questions, which your group has not received. One colleague, I thought Mr Pechtold, said: it really doesn't matter whether he saw it or not, because it was on AZ. Whether that counselor or political assistant has seen that is not so relevant. The Prime Minister is a control freak. We saw it when he was Blue Henk or Brown Ed, that drug dealer... Red Ron ran into him. Within two seconds he called Mr. Bitch in fear: will there be more? The man is a control freak to the extreme. A prime minister who gets a piece twice probably asked for it. He probably said he wants all those pieces. How credible do you think that the Prime Minister, the control freak Rutte, says: they have come to my ministry twice; my officials have seen it, but I haven't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u115	Ultimately, it is not just a question of whether or not it is credible, but also whether or not it is. The Prime Minister is constantly saying that he has not interfered, because he did not think that was right under state law. I think that's a very formalistic attitude. That also gives me a form of judgment. That is why I asked him these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u116	Do you agree with me that, regardless of whether it is formalistic or unbelievable in my own words, it really doesn't matter, and that if it's in the Ministry, it's state law with the Prime Minister, that we never blame civil servants here, but that it's formally with him and that he can never say, I didn't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u117	In general terms, as a minister, you always have the final political responsibility, so that is actually the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr. Chairman. Cool country, man, this country. It is a country in which citizens have to watch their political leaders and their supporters spend a long time searching for receipts, asking questions of the House and writing the answers themselves, shredding a letter from a whistleblower, in short, concealing the truth. As if there were no problems to be solved in this country, a minister and a Secretary of State for Security and Justice, and then again a new Minister of Security and Justice, and the President of the Chamber, and MPs of the VVD and the Labour Party, have been busy, busy, busy with smokescreens pulling up. Lying is hard work. The same goes for those who try to unravel those lies. The previous minister of security and justice had to make more excuses than he could. And also the new minister, who had everything to do with the ticketing affair, acts like a minister of exit. As far as we are concerned, that is not entirely unexpected. On the first apology, in October 2015, the minister was still on probation. It was just too early for consequences. But when it turned out that the minister and his officials weren't exactly "on speaking terms." Information about a crucial photo shoot, many of which had been informed for months, did not reach the Minister. And instead of being properly informed, the Minister then took an advance on matters that he was not aware of. He was forgiven, also in the context of two coalition parties who couldn't afford to let go of each other. In December it followed sorry about the Tevendeal, the lost receipt and the unjustified accusation to the ICT department of his own ministry, who had to stop her investigation at the request of the higher level. You don't make friends with that. But despite the lack of friends, the Minister was allowed to remain in the Labour Party. Cool country. Citizens are being bugged massively. They may be apprehended without concrete suspicion. And especially when they have a tan, they're standard against appearances. Those citizens must see how lying ministers want and get the benefit of the doubt. Individuals with social security benefits who occasionally sleep together should be afraid of their income because the current cabinet wishes to assume that they share a household and are therefore cheating. Giving citizens the appearance and wanting the benefit of a great deal of doubt? No, as far as the Party for Animals is concerned, it doesn't. As far as we are concerned, the Minister for Security and Justice is leaving. We wait tensely for the Prime Minister to evict him. 'Cause that's the new line, right? Get out of here or get out of here. Respect our country, or else there's no place for you here. We're curious. We cannot imagine a greater dis of the Netherlands than taking advantage of the confidence that has been placed in you, as those in power. The question is also whether the Prime Minister himself can remain seated. Lying is not only hard work, but also creating and sustaining an alternative reality while it seems as though this mandible true reality is not going to be eradicated and constantly shattered. You don't do that alone. You're gonna need accomplices who keep pressing the facts, so just say, they're gonna rip the facts apart. That's how they build a freeway for the lie. It seems that the Prime Minister is a very skilled cover-up manager and, worse still, that he sees this as one of his most important tasks as the leader of this country. We'll pick out a reason for that. The Prime Minister has always said that he did not hear of the amount until the receipt appeared after a long search. And now he denies seeing it before. Officials would have gotten the answers, but they wouldn't have gotten on his desk. His statement seems a little vulnerable to us. Such a high-rise affair, and then you can't see the answers for yourself? It could be, but it's not very credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u119	Madam President. I do not need to say much more about the current Minister of Justice. We have already supported two motions in the past, two motions of censure, and a motion of censure. You will understand, Madam President, that confidence has not exactly returned. On 8 June 2016, I said that the credibility of this Minister with regard to 50PLUS had long fallen below zero. On 16 December 2015, I pointed out the negative image that this creates for the whole of politics. I asked the Prime Minister to reflect on that. I now understand why he didn't go into that at the time, because now we see the consequences of ignoring questions that live in people's homes. If the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and the Prime Minister, the figures, the guardians of our rule of law forget something time and again, are careless, do not inform the Chamber and then are not open about it but, more importantly, give the impression of knowingly getting out of the way, then it is not surprising that people at home lose faith in politics, especially when you read that the Justice and Police Summit openly silences the current Minister, according to John van den Heuvel in De Telegraaf today. But enough about this minister. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it was already over, but if the coalition partners are so keen to maintain it: excellent, then it is up to the electorate to judge it in 48 days' time. In doing so, the electorate will also have to judge the role of our Prime Minister. He really didn't know? That's hard to believe. How is that consistent with his habit of always wanting to know the seam of the stocking? And just in this case, you should have expected him to be on top of it. Let me therefore ask the question again: why hasn't the Prime Minister been on top of it? If he did, then we've been lied to, and if he didn't know, he's in his role as Prime Minister. 50PLUS understands that the VVD wants to protect the cherished golden boy, but that kite doesn't go on anymore, and that must finally be made clear. I'd like to say to the VVD: if you find a receipt, you can exchange it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief: what a mockery! We're here for the umpteenth time to discuss the ex-Camera member Van der Steur. It is unheard of how established politics like the VVD converses and squirms. Parliamentary relations are offended, and that is called "doing normal." And then there is this sad debate. A lot of media excitement and we're not getting anywhere with it, the Netherlands isn't getting a centimeter safer. In short, what is this debate about? Only about The Hague's fuss and a dangling minister who has no authority. It paralyzes our security and justice. Then it is incomprehensible that the minister does not take credit for himself like his predecessor. Then it is incomprehensible that the Prime Minister does not intervene decisively, but is involved in an apology culture. So that's obviously "doing normal." That runs counter to liberal politics. The basis on order means working on an unconditional basic income and even benefits an ex-minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. Chairman. Instead of tackling crime and coming up with good proposals, we are talking again about the receipts and the disappearing acts of ministers of the VVD house. What's the Cabinet doing? The powerful department, the Department of Security and Justice, which should have become the Department of Crimefighters, has become a ruin. Instead of getting criminals into suspect banks, the department is again in the suspect bank today under the leadership of VVD executives. That's the world upside down. Less than a few weeks ago, the crime figures also turned out to be obscured. Not the hallelujah stories of Minister Van der Steur turned out to be true, but the Public Prosecutor and the police wrote a secret document stating that the real crime rates were much higher and that the underworld is winning the fight with justice. That document was also withheld. Thanks to Faith, we know about it. Who else can you rely on attorney? That's what this is all about today, the confidence in this file. In the first place, the cabinet will have to come up with a real story about this because of the questions that have been asked today. Citizens, the rule of law and our democracy are entitled to this. Criminals belong in the suspect bank, not the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions. The letter we received today talks about a version of the draft replies sent to the Ministry of AZ on Sunday evening. Was that the first version or were earlier versions sent to the Ministry of AZ? My second question is whether information known to the Ministry is not known to the MP as well in a state-law sense. Even if he didn't read it himself, he's responsible for that, right? According to anonymous sources, the MP would have spoken several times with Secretary of State Teeven about the Teeven Deal. Did the Dutch MP Van der Steur know about this? What does Mr Teeven actually say about that? His memory appears to be fairly accurate in this file, so I'm actually curious what to say about that. Was the political leader and group chairman Zijlstra aware of the corrective work carried out by Mr Van der Steur for the Ministry of Security and Justice, and perhaps in this way also later on of the e-mail about this and the information that was disclosed from it? Mr Zijlstra said he had nothing to do with it. But is it? Was he not at all aware of this information and this course of events?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u123	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u124	We will continue with the debate on the settlement of the deal with Cees H. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u125	Madam President. The file on the withdrawal with Cees H. isn't pretty. In this case, I have not sufficiently guarded the boundary between my co-legislative role and my controlling role as a Member of Parliament. That was wrong. I have already indicated in previous debates that I should have become aware of this much earlier and that I should have withdrawn much earlier. Both in December 2015 and in June 2016, I said that. Even then, it was already clear to everyone that mistakes were made in this dossier. The conclusions of the Oosting I Committee and the Oosting II Committee are and will continue to be compelling. In the letter from the day before yesterday, I also emphasised my conclusions. I learned lessons from that at the time. Those lessons are, of course, about my role as MP at the time, which went too far, but also about my function as minister and about the way things were going at my ministry at the time. On Monday morning 9 March 2015, I read and commented on the e-mail containing the amounts remembered by the then Secretary of State. In the amounts he remembered in his reply, I noted: "Very vulnerable. If this is the memory of the stasis, why hasn't it been reported before?" That I first took note of these amounts on that Monday was communicated to your Chamber at several times. In the answers to the parliamentary questions of 15 December 2015 and in the debate on 16 December 2015, I said not only that I heard those amounts at the time, that morning, but also what I thought of them. I did so in response to the questions put by Mr Roemer, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. The essence of my comments and the fact that I have taken note of them have therefore been shared with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u126	No, what has not been shared is that, in response to your comments on those questions, the amounts have been removed between the concept you had as Mr Van der Steur as a Member of Parliament and the answers from then Minister Opstelten, and that was because of your comments. That is, of course, the reproach. You should have reported this to the Chamber actively, proactively, in accordance with the Constitution. You should have said: I did that, I used those words and I even took care of them, at least that was the consequence of your intervention that they were taken out. You should have! Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u127	My comment shows in no way that I thought that should be removed. Mr Van der Staaij has, I think, made a very catchy statement. You can see that in the letters I sent you yesterday and this morning. If I thought that something had to be removed, then I made it clear or I said in no uncertain terms: delete, remove, or whatever. Those were my advice. That has not happened at this point. And why not? I also informed you this morning because I assumed that these amounts would be reported. I also found and believe that, in the debate in December 2015, I also said this to Mr Roemer: according to my remark, those amounts should have been reported to the Chamber much earlier. That was also the essence of my comment: why was this not reported to the Chamber earlier? I assumed that it would also be done at the time of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u128	The Minister is really making things worse with this. You're only making things worse, Minister. There is no one in the Netherlands who believes you anymore. No one believes that if you're the only one... We have just heard from Mrs Kuik that the coalition colleague, the Labour Party, was not even given the opportunity to comment on these questions. You did, as a Member of Parliament. You put it there: "Very vulnerable." After that, you saw that it was taken out. You didn't protest that. Of course, it happened because you asked for it because you said it. The fact that you then put down once that something needs to be removed and the other time it doesn't, is irrelevant. You did that, and you didn't report it to the Chamber. That is my core question: why at least did you not tell the Chamber that you commented on the answers to Parliamentary questions and that the consequence was that it was removed? That's a little off the record, probably no one in the Netherlands believes that this isn't because of you, but let's just abstract that for a moment. Why didn't you spontaneously tell the Chamber instead of just the Oosting Committee: I commented on this, I put it in the margin; Room, know it was taken out afterwards? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u129	I wasn't the Minister of Security and Justice back then. I don't know why those amounts were taken out. I can't know that either, because I wasn't involved in any of that. My intention was purely that I felt that those amounts should have been mentioned and that they should have been mentioned earlier. In reply to Mr Roemer, I said quite literally: 'One thing was certain: I felt and with the Oosting Committee that Mr Teeven's memory could have been communicated to the Chamber. You could have said: the Secretary of State remembers this; that is something else and that is it." That was something else than the final amount, because of course those amounts were wrong. I went on to say, "I think that should have happened. I would do the same myself, as a minister, by the way." I also really think that, even in previous comments, I mentioned specifically in the comments made by the Chamber in June 2014, at the time, why the Secretary of State was not allowed to speak directly with Mr Van Brummen. I think that's when I put in "that's gonna get messed up." It turned out to be prophetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u130	Last time, then. After that, colleagues can take it further. This shows, first of all, all the shadowiness of VVD-Room members who are going to write along, who comment, who then have to say in the Chamber that they were still sitting on one seat and a little later on the other. That's a real mafia practice. Two points are the most important. The first is the result of your intervention. That intervention could not have been from the Labour Party, because they have not had it. As a result of your intervention, the figures have been removed from the answers. That's the consequence of that. And you saw that. You knew that, because together with General Affairs you are the only one who has had it, as far as we have been able to judge. You should have reported that to the Chamber. The second point is that, apart from the amount taken out, you should have reported it to the Chamber. But when the Chamber asked you to do that, you didn't report it. This means that you fooled the Chamber and that the question of trust is very much on the table, insofar as I have lost confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr Wilders' accusation is really not justified. I explicitly said what I said about it in the debate in December. I have literally said: I found and noted that it should have been shared with the Chamber. I have just quoted what I said to Mr Roemer in the debate. I also said it in debate with Mr Buma. I thought, and still do, that those amounts could have been communicated to the Chamber. I thought this should have been done a long time ago. I have never understood why this ambiguity has persisted. I also said this in the debate; Mr Wilders' question is a repetition of moves in this respect. As I said in December, the Oosting Committee would start work immediately afterwards. One of her assignments was to investigate the provision of information to the Chamber. All the e-mails were transferred. In the debate in December, I said that I assumed that the investigation would take place as it had been agreed with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u132	With all due respect, these are verbal excuses. It was about what the minister had heard as a member of parliament at the time and not about what he had read. This debate is about what he had read. The Minister said in a look back at his writing: I did so to ensure that the Chamber would be fully and correctly informed. That was the goal. The Chamber is not fully informed and not properly informed because a passage has been removed. The only MP who knew that was the MP Van der Steur, who later became minister. Isn't that a story that can't be sustained and that's dramatic?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u133	I don't know if there's a causal link between my remark, which wasn't meant to be deleted... I should not have given any of those comments; let that be clear. I said that in December 2015 and in June 2016 and here I say it again. I shouldn't have given those advice; I should have drawn that line earlier. There's no discussion between me and the Chamber. We've talked about that extensively. Several Members, including Mr Segers, have asked me to do so. I shouldn't have given them to you, but I gave them to you. There is one thing that is certain, namely that it does not say: delete or remove. That passage occurs twice. In either case, it doesn't say "delete" or "remove." In one case, it says check. Starting from publication: check if you have said anything else elsewhere. The second point is: why was this not previously shared with the Chamber? With the best will in the world, you can't make that sound like I would have advised you to take this piece out of the text. I assumed it would be published. For the rest, it was the responsibility of the Minister of Security and Justice of that time, who resigned on the same evening because of the communication to the Chamber, to take responsibility for that information. After that, as I said to Mr Roemer, it was subject to the judgment of the Oosting Committee, which also made a harsh judgment on this, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u134	No, it was the responsibility of the MP Van der Steur. He was the only MP who knew this. He knew that the Chamber was not correctly and not fully informed. At that time, it was his duty to report it. Let's go along with the exegesis that he was shocked by that passage and wrote: very vulnerable, why is this not shared before. If that was indeed the emotion of the MP who read this, what must have been his emotion when he saw the result, namely that it had been taken all the way out and that they went back to those old phrases, namely: insufficient memories and it does not see the financial handling? Those were things that were wrong. Then it's a duty or the most normal reaction to sit up against the ceiling and say, what do we get, I say it's vulnerable and I hate that it hasn't been shared before, what do you make of me, it's all taken out now, what the hell is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u135	It is a repetition of moves, because we have already shared in the previous debate that something did happen in the meantime. Secretary of State Teeven's memory amounted to 7.1 million euros. That memory did not match the amount that Nieuwsuur had already mentioned on 4 March. That memory also didn't match the evidence that eventually came out via Newsuur and later through the department. In that sense, the Secretary of State's memory went along with the search for the receipt. The question was: what was transferred now? That was the question that the whole debate was about for two years. Then the receipt comes up. This is speculative, because I was not involved in the decisions about the final editing; when and how that went out of that letter. But I understand that this could have happened because the situation had changed completely in the meantime. The game changer, to put it in ugly Dutch, was that the receipt was on the table by now. What was unclear all this time became clear in one fell swoop. I can imagine, however, that is speculative: it was then thought that there was no point in adding the memory of the Secretary of State, also in view of the Director-General's personal notes, which had already been discussed in two debates. The Oosting Committee said that this was nonsense, that it could simply have been public and should have been shared with the Chamber. I agree. That is a conclusion from the Oosting Committee, which has been taken over by the cabinet. I was always told this was a secret document you weren't supposed to know about. That's why I left when that came on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u136	I really don't feel like going back over that amount. Now the minister's talking about 7.1 again. He's writing about 4.8. Bitch remembered 4.8. That memory was very sharp. Oosting said he had a very sharp memory. It was 4.8 every time. But that's not the point. It was this memory, which has always been said: it is insufficient; it does not remember; it knows so little that we cannot share it. For the first time, Minister Opstelten wrote: this is what Secretary of State Teeven remembers. This was followed by Mr Van der Steur. The result is that it is taken out and it goes back to the old phrases. Then it would have been his duty to be on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u137	Two points, because I think it is a good thing that we are talking about the facts here. For the reminder of Secretary of State Teeven, I quote from the interview report made public by the Oosting Committee. In his memory, it involved a principal sum of 2.3 million and interest rates of around 4.8 million, i.e. 7.1 million. That really is a fundamental difference. According to the State Secretary, that amount was the principal amount, transferred to the State and then transferred to the State. That's what the report says. So it was 7.1 million. Those are the facts. I found that I found................................................................................................................................................................................. That saved a lot of trouble. I do not know why, but I do understand that if the receipt has been found by now, the discussion could have gone so that they said 'this is less relevant'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u138	Your last comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u139	I don't know, Mr. Chairman. I was a member of parliament then and not a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u140	The very last one. In a response to a question from the CDA group, MP Van der Steur writes about 4.8: this has been transferred through the Public Prosecutor. So he too knew very well that it was 4.8 million, but we are putting that aside. We needed two researches by Oosting and a book by Bas Haan to finally get this version over the table. As a Member of Parliament, the Minister himself said that he was concerned with fully and correctly informing the Chamber. It was a duty on day one to ring the bell when it didn't, but he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u141	I've already answered that. I'm fine with repeating that. I gave the answer in December 2015 that I knew at that time that the Oosting Committee would conduct an investigation into this and that I felt that the Oosting Committee should be able to do its work on that point. At that time there was no reason for me, as I said to Mr Roemer, to take action on my own. I also said at that time, look at the Acts that this might have been different if the Oosting Committee had not already been appointed at that time on Tuesday, as the Prime Minister's statement showed. I would like to correct Mr Segers. In my comment AS7 we are talking about 4.7 million from Nieuwsuur and not the 4.8. I quote: "Why answer like that? It's not 750,000, it's 4.7 million. This is gonna get messed up. Adjust." I wrote that because I found and thought that this was an incomplete answer to the question; this was the 4.7 million from Newsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u142	The VVD was at Justice for five years. The VVD was in his stomach with the fact that a drug criminal got 2 million from Fred Teeven. That was the statue. And that 7.5 tons went back to the taxpayer. Then it was suddenly: no, under the responsibility of the VVD it was not 2 million, but 4.7 million. So we were all looking for 4.7 million. Now it says in a conversation note: 2,3 and 4.8 is 7.1 together. Hey, that 4.8? Weren't we looking for 4.7? The Minister says: no, because it adds up to even more, we do not have to report it. Yes! That's exactly what I'm 'Cause we were looking for proof that it was a lot more than Opstelten kept up all this time. When MP Van der Steur read that, he wrote: delete. In the months after that, as a minister, he never again tried to say: I knew it, and when the questions and the answers didn't come up, I didn't do anything to inform the Chamber. That's your problem, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u143	I know Mr Pechtold as someone who is always extremely sharp and careful. I really must point out to him that the word 'delete' does not appear at all in this point. I also take it that he says that, because he has repeated it several times in the debate. Anyone can read. Everyone can read what I wrote down: very vulnerable, why wasn't that shared with the Chamber before? How can you come to the conclusion textually or with an exegese of this text that I mean "delete"? All I find out is: it's vulnerable that you just called it now and why haven't you done it before. That's the question I'm asking. At the first time in the debate, in the letter, I do not say "delete," as I say to Mr Pechtold. There I say "fine that you publish it, but now you have to check if you've ever said anything else about the Secretary of State's memory." I'm not saying it like that, but that's what it turns out. I felt and felt that this should have been reported to the Chamber earlier. I really cannot do better than that, and what Mr Pechtold says is factually and contentally incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u144	MP van der Steur co-wrote letters. MP Van der Steur co-wrote press releases. MP Van der Steur had 23 comments on the questions his colleagues and himself asked. Can he call me one of those 23 clues that led to more information for the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u145	I refer to the exegesis that I have sent to the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, I ask the Minister: mention one of your 23 changes that we have learned from, which gave us more information and finally gave us the background to Fred Teeven's money laundering operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u147	I will not respond to this last string, because I do not agree with that. AS2: proactively; once again to consult the Chamber confidentially. That's the advice I'm giving. More information to the Chamber. AS3: When? More information to the Chamber. AS6: The suggestion is raised that BOOM (Admission Law Office) provided incorrect information to the college; has this been previously communicated? That, of course, automatically means that you need to explain that further. More information to the Chamber. AS11: payment took place in 2001; actual correction. AS12: Explain possibility better. This answer leaves open the possibility that information can still be requested in another way. Makes you unnecessarily vulnerable, I say. That possibility should be excluded. So give more and better information to the Chamber. That's how I can keep going. The essence of everything I write here is that the Chamber must be properly and fully informed. I also note, precisely at that point, that I have never understood, and I still do not understand why the memory of the Secretary of State was not simply communicated to the Chamber. That's the essence of what I'm noticing. That has nothing to do with deletion or less information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u148	In the morning Van der Steur, before the receipt comes out, suddenly reads things that the whole of The Hague is looking for. What he writes is, take it away, come from bullshit. One thing is clear, namely that he next attributed himself a heroic role by saying: when that story suddenly came up, I ran away. And that while he himself was the one who took it all away, it did not promote it and caused the Chamber to be incomplete and misinformed, as fortunately the PvdA has just established.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u149	I am a little disappointed in Mr Pechtold. I just asked him for the third time just to look at the text. He keeps saying that the words "remove" and "delete" would have been mentioned there, but they just aren't there. I assumed that this would simply be sent to the Chamber. I had one question. I would point out that it is very vulnerable, because I do not understand why it can only now and why it could not be done sooner. My second comment is why it was not sent to the Chamber earlier. Then Mr Pechtold comes to the conclusion that I meant that it should be deleted. Well, I really don't understand. I am very sorry, but I do not think Mr Pechtold is right on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u150	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u151	Such a sentence alone: there are no other settlements known. What does Van der Steur say? Leads to unnecessary discussion. Of course, you should not put those MPs on the trail now that perhaps more has happened at the Tax Office by Fred Teeven in a wrong deal as mentioned by Oosting; I will say it again, also to the Prime Minister: a wrong deal noted by Oosting. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think he has won another prize for this, Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u152	What matters here is that MP Van der Steur got information before the receipt was found. He realized that this was the essential information that the Chamber wanted and made a comment on it; I would like to leave aside the purpose of the remark. As a result, that essential part has been deleted from the letter and the Chamber has not been informed or carelessly informed. MP Van der Steur didn't do anything about it. A few days later, he became a minister himself, but he did not immediately fix that mistake, which he now says should have happened. He has once again waited for information to be given, until December, when parliamentary questions came and were asked. If MP Van der Steur and Minister Van der Steur really only had one thing in mind, namely to ensure that, as he himself put it, the Chamber would be carefully and well informed, he would have had two chances: the first chance directly as a Member of Parliament, but he did not, and the second chance after taking office as Minister, but he did not. We find out, many months later, or because we ask questions ourselves or because a book appears. Then you won't be able to remain credible in this post.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr Roemer asked me the question earlier in December. I talked to him about that back then. I note that the essential information we were all looking for at the time was not the memory of Secretary of State Bitches, but what was transferred to Cees H. The withdrawal of Cees H., that was the discussion, that's what Nieuwsuur was talking about. News hours had revealed the amount and the department couldn't find it. That's what it was all about. But at the same time I felt that that information, if that was the memory of the Secretary of State, should have been shared with the Chamber rather than at that time. I agree with Mr Roemer. I agreed with Mr Roemer in December when he asked me this question, and I still agree with him. Mr Roemer then asked in December: why did you, as a Member of Parliament, not do anything about it? Then I replied: because I knew by now that the Oosting Committee was going to investigate this matter, the task was to look at the provision of information to the Chamber and, in light of this, I, as Minister, then ensured that all relevant information, including these e-mails, was made available to the Oosting I and II Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u154	Once again, the Minister makes it painfully clear that it was never his intention to bring the complete truth to the table and to give it to the Chamber. It was indeed about the memories of Bitch, because it has been constantly said: there are no memories, he doesn't remember, his memory is no longer engraved on what it was about. Then you read in the answer what the memories of Bitch were. You knew at the time that the Chamber was not well informed. Then you rightly said: it is vulnerable. That's why, partly for that reason, it was taken out. And then you never wanted to correct it when you knew it was essential information that the Chamber repeatedly asked for and didn't get. In fact, we were lied to because it was said: Bitches don't remember. And if you do not want to admit that to this day, then your comments in an earlier debate, that you have done everything you can to get the truth out of the table, are a lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u155	I certainly cannot support Mr Roemer's conclusion. I've reported what I've reported. I thought it should have been reported to the Chamber earlier. That was my first reaction when I read it: if that is the memory, and it also shows that I didn't know that memory before then, why didn't you report it to the Chamber earlier? That was my question. Mr Roemer then says: the result was that it was removed from that letter. I don't know. I honestly don't know. I still think it should have just been reported to the Chamber. That is what I thought in December when Mr Roemer asked me that question, and I still think so. And I assumed that, too. If you look at the other comments I make on this, it shows that I am simply assuming that this will be included in the letter. After the resignation of my colleague and predecessor and Mr Teeven, the debate with the Prime Minister was followed. He indicated that there would be an investigation. I then said this to Mr Roemer in December 2015, and I assumed that all these aspects would be considered in that study. I indicated that I would not have known how to do anything about it as a Member of Parliament. I also indicated that I might have done this differently if the investigation had not been there. That is all the information I gave Mr Roemer in December. I'm still in favour of that. I can read the passage in question from the Acts, but I do not think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u156	I can't believe this! He is hiding behind an investigation by Oosting with his active duty of information. It's like firing him from an active disclosure obligation. That's unbelievable! The answer only makes it worse. The Minister has repeatedly had the chance to give the Chamber what she asked for. Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Nispen have literally asked for essential e-mails, for everything that was available to make it clear. "No, it wasn't there." "I'm gonna go look again." "No, I didn't find anything." In the meantime, it gets to Oosting and it gets there in the secret drawer. And this minister still doesn't say anything. Afterwards he says: we should have done this and we should have. In hindsight, that's talk for the often. Minister, you've been given so many opportunities and done nothing. You forgot to give the Chamber the information you had at your disposal. According to Article 68 of the Constitution, that is your duty. That's a mortal sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u157	I am very sorry, but here too Mr Roemer pretends that the Oosting Committee did not exist. We spoke with the Chamber about the commissioning of the Oosting Committee. We agreed that all relevant documents would be transferred to the Oosting Committee. I also made it clear in writing to the Oosting II Committee that additional information had emerged as a result of the disclosures of the Oosting Committee and that I would hand it over to the Oosting Committee. The whole Chamber agreed. Why did the Chamber agree to that? Because we agreed with each other that we wanted an expert investigation into what happened there. Mr Verhoeven then asked me during a debate whether I had co-written with other versions of the letter of 3 June. That was Mr Verhoeven's request for the order of business. Then we immediately sent a letter the next morning and said: yes, we have; we have looked carefully and cannot find that version. Then we found that version together with the Chamber and this one was sent to the Chamber. That's exactly what it says in the letter of 6 June. That was the question and that is the answer. Mr Van der Staaij said: if the question had been asked about this version of the letter, I would have sent it to the Chamber. Mr Roemer then says that I should have done so actively. However, that is what the Oosting Committee had in mind. He may say afterwards that that is different, but it is not. As soon as the Chamber asked for information, so did I. I'm doing that again today. Yesterday that question came again and I did so again. That's how it is and that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u158	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u159	It's getting more and more scandalous. "That's what the Eastern Commission is for." What the hell is that? Essential information is requested. The Minister has it and doesn't give it to him. That information is there. The Minister says you didn't ask for it, so I'm not giving it to you. That is completely unacceptable, because the Minister has an active duty to provide information. He then blames the Oosting Committee for apparently not doing anything with it, or blames the House for not having asked it for one sentence in the Oosting report. Go back to the essence. Does the Minister agree with me that, according to the Constitution, it is his duty to actively inform us, and even more so, about essential information? He was the only MP who knew this. Then he knew and knew as Minister that he never shared this with the Chamber, while we were all looking for this. If that doesn't want to get through, we really have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u160	Let's peel it off. Following version 25 of the June 2014 letter, Mr Verhoeven asked for the notes of then MP Van der Steur and the changes to the letter, and I quote from the stenogram: "We would like to request that the other versions in which the Minister has made changes be received as well." The answer from me the following day is: "In yesterday's order of business, Mr Verhoeven asked for all versions of the letter dated 3 June 2014 with comments from MP Van der Steur." Then I'm gonna tell them there's a version that the room got, that we can't find a version and I'm gonna find it. If there is, there will be. We then had an order debate. Then I let the Chamber know this wasn't there. It was there later. Then we sent that information to the Chamber immediately. Those are the facts. If the Chamber asks for information, the Chamber gets that information. I know Article 68 of the Constitution, I say in the direction of Mr Roemer. He doesn't have to worry about that. In the meantime, we agreed that we would make all the information available to the Oosting Committee. Mr Roemer pretends that he is not. I spoke to the Chamber about the assignment. All orders and all questions of the Chamber have been submitted to the Oosting Committee. It's been taken into account by the Oosting Committee twice in its investigation. This means that a thorough investigation would be carried out into the total provision of information to the Chamber, as stated in the first part of the assignment to the Oosting I Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u161	The Minister is constantly hiding behind the Oosting Committee. He's also annoyed towards the Chamber. He doesn't say it yet, but almost he says: you should actually say thank you for all my comments, because that was really meant to give more information; that has given the Chamber more information. In the end, however, the question is not whether more information has come, but whether the right information has come. The Minister is right in saying that he has been incredibly precise in all his comments. If something really had to be deleted because it would lead to discussion, he would have written it down quite correctly. He's been all over the place exactly. However, when replying to questions 7 and 14 and comment 21 by then MP Van der Steur, he is not so precise. He only says "very vulnerable" and "If this is the memory of the Secretary of State, why hasn't this been reported before?" The remark that should have been made there is: this must go to the Lower House. Why didn't the MP Van der Steur write that down at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u162	I've already answered that question. At that point, I thought it would go to the House of Representatives. I just noticed that I didn't understand why, if this was the memory, this wasn't reported before. Mr. Klaver hits the nail on the head. I assumed at that time that the Chamber would be informed. Twice these amounts are mentioned in the draft replies, and I have not given the impression in any way that I did not think it should be mentioned. I have said in both cases what the consequences would be. I thought it should go to the room, and I still do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u163	The only person with whom that impression may not have been given is Mr Van der Steur, but at least the rest of the Chamber has given that impression. I find the construction of this minister's entire defence striking. He says: I've been very precise in what I asked from the Ministry; if I thought something needed to be deleted, I put it in there, and if any additional information was needed, I wrote it down. This is a crucial point, something that the Chamber has been looking for for a long time. After all, we had asked questions about the memory of Bitch. But on this crucial point, Mr Van der Steur remains vague. He says: this is a great risk; this has not been shared before. And that's it. That's unbelievable. Mr Van der Steur's line of defence means that he says he is very precise, but here he remains vague. The consequence is that the department deleted it in the final reply. Then you can't help but conclude that the MP Van der Steur has made sure that this had to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr Klaver cannot in any way conclude that from my point of view. If I ask why it wasn't shared with the Chamber earlier, doesn't that mean that I think it should be deleted? I'm so sorry, but I really can't reach it. In other areas, I have advised you to delete. For the record, I should never have advised you to do that. I should not have interfered at all; I agree with Mr Klaver and Mr Roemer. I said this in June and in September, and I repeat it here again. I shouldn't have done it all, but I did. There is much to blame for me, but I am not blamed for being unclear. If I didn't think it should be in there, I gave it advice. If I thought it should have been reported earlier, I gave it advice. In this case, I felt it should have been reported earlier. I never understood why that was so difficult. That's what I said back then, and that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u165	It's about the combination of words... and that someone has to watch football.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u166	I heard something too, but go on, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u167	It's about the combination of words. The words "very vulnerable" were used in conjunction with the question: why hasn't this been shared before? It was vulnerable because it wasn't shared before. This suggests that MP Van der Steur was mainly looking for an answer to the question: where are the cabinet, the ministers of my party and my party themselves vulnerable? If he had really thought it needed to be shared, he would have written it down, as he had done with all the other comments. It is true that he is crystal clear about his intentions: something needs to be supplemented or something has to be deleted. But here he's not crystal clear. Here he deliberately stays in the dark and only points out the risk that there is because it has not been reported to the Chamber before. That remains unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u168	There was a draft letter to inform the Chamber. According to Mr Klaver, should I have written in my advisory role in every paragraph: what a good idea to inform the Chamber in this way? That is, of course, too crazy for words! I assumed that what was in the letter would be sent to the Chamber. My only comment on this point was: why was it not previously shared with the Chamber? That is indeed vulnerable. I always have, and I still do. I still don't understand. I never understood. I think and felt that it should have been shared with the Chamber. Mr Klaver then said: but this clearly shows that it should have been deleted. I'm very sorry, but I really can't understand that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u169	The Minister is drowning on what he's prepared. It doesn't say "shuffle." I didn't talk about that at all. I would like to comment on the argument put forward by this Minister himself, namely that he is clear in all his comments whether something should be deleted or should stand. That is not happening here, and that is striking because this is the crucial passage that the whole Chamber falls over. Here Mr Van der Steur is not clear whether it should be reported, while he has been clear in other places. All he's saying here is, why hasn't this been reported? In combination with the words "this is very risky," I understand that the department has concluded: maybe we shouldn't share it. It is true that there is a connection between the remarks made by Mr Van der Steur at the time and the final letter which we saw as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u170	I don't understand that conclusion at all, because I assumed it would be revealed. All I have said, and that is why Mr Klaver paraphrases me wrong, but he probably does that for a purpose, is: why has it not been reported to the Chamber before? With the best will in the world, you can't conclude that I would have proposed to delete it, or that I wouldn't want to. I'll just say I think it's vulnerable. Why? Because it should have been reported much earlier. I've always said that. It was already shared with the Chamber in December, and also in June. So it can't be a surprise for Mr Klaver that I thought so. And I still do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u171	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u172	If the Minister was really focused on better informing the Chamber, if that was his absolute goal... When eventually the conversation was to take place in which the conversation note would be shared, the minister walked away. He indicated: I do not want that information, because other MPs do not have it. He already had information that other MPs did not have, although it might have been incomplete, and in this way he could have ensured that that information could have gone to the Chamber. My point is this. This minister's line of defense is not clear. He's swirling from one side to the other. He's always looking for an argument to defend himself, and it doesn't last.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u173	If something is not clear, it is Mr Klaver's attack. He now blames me for drawing a line and for running away from a document which I was told would remain secret from the Chamber. While we've already established that I should've walked away a long time ago. I shouldn't have sat there. I shouldn't have advised on those letters at all. I should never have been there. What Mr Klaver is telling me now, and exactly what Mr Zijlstra said in his first term, is: it is now basically that I, as a minister, am ultimately accused of being in my role as a Member of Parliament, when secret information came, had to sit down like some sort of detective and say, 'I am going to listen to that and see what I do with it'. No, that information would not be shared with the Chamber, I was told. And so I thought I shouldn't have been there. But I think I shouldn't have been here a long time ago. The question that Mr Klaver raises is a question that should not have been raised at all. I shouldn't have been there at all; not on 9 March and not on 4 March. I shouldn't have given those advices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u174	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u175	That's totally remarkable. The Minister states that he has interfered with the draft answers to the parliamentary questions in order to inform the Chamber as best as possible. When it comes to the discussion note, there was one thing that was relevant, namely the amount that was in Mr Teeven's memory. When it was said "this is not shared with the Chamber," a bell should have ringed. That you might have quit, okay? But that should at least have called for this reaction from the Member of Parliament at the time: something is being kept under the hat here and this must be reported to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u176	I really cannot support that conclusion, because I found at that very moment that there was information on the table that I was not supposed to know, for reasons which I did not understand at the time and which I said later, and also the Oosting Committee, said that it was nonsense that it was so difficult to do about it. That's when I said I shouldn't be here. The conclusion is that I should have said that a long time ago. I shared that conclusion with you in December, and again in June. I have repeated this in all the letters we have sent on this subject, as I have done today. I shouldn't have been here. I shouldn't have given those advices, and I shouldn't have been involved in the way the department sent letters to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u177	The Minister is now trying to create the image of a kind of cow knight, who, on behalf of all of us, is going to the department as a forward-looking post to ensure that the information that the Chamber of the Minister is about to receive is, above all, correct. We all know, and even better today, that he was there as a VVD, because a VVD minister was vulnerable? We do not know why he went there and on who's behalf, but we do know that the VVD was in trouble and that Van der Steur had to help. We also know that he was sitting there alone. I still thought it had something to do with support in the coalition, but even Mr Recourt was not allowed to know; only the VVD. Who's stupid now? The officials, because they seem to have misinterpreted it. When the MP Van der Steur said "it's vulnerable," he meant: you must report this to the Chamber as soon as possible. But the officials misunderstood. I can tell you that when my son is playing soccer in front of the window and I sneak out and say, "Watch out, that window is vulnerable," I don't mean kick it in the face. Then I mean, don't do that, and if you do, I think it's stupid. That's this text. If the MP didn't know that, then either he doesn't know the Dutch language, or he was very stupid, because against the background of the VVD that was protecting the VVD, it's just obvious. It was indeed vulnerable, but for whom? For the VVD Minister. That is why it is absolutely wrong. It is certainly incorrect in relation to what he later maintained in the Chamber, namely that all this was done to get complete and correct information to the Chamber. Was that the only purpose of the MP or am I right that there was another purpose, because the VVD was in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u178	To answer the last question: these two interests are of course interrelated. The accusation that was constantly made to my predecessor in all the debates was that unclear information had been provided. That started with his math, with the amounts it would have been. There has been a lot of discussion about this and he has said: that was incorrect and I did not have sufficient support for it to do so. Then there was Van Brummen's investigation. Perhaps Mr Buma remembers that I also wrote in the annotation that I never understood why Van Brummen was not allowed to speak directly with the Secretary of State. Of that also Oosting later said that it should have happened. With whatever text exegesis and whatever Mr Buma may communicate with his son, it remains a fact that I wrote down, assuming it is published. I'm not saying "shuffle," I'm not saying "remove," but I'm gonna tie something to it twice. One is that I say check if you've ever said anything else about it, which makes sense, if you make it public. And two is that I'm asking why that hasn't been shared with the Chamber before, because it's very vulnerable. Mr President, that is all I have written down, assuming that openness would be given, albeit far too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u179	A correction. It is not as the Minister says that the importance of protecting a VVD minister is in line with the importance of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u180	No, of informing the Chamber correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u181	Well, not that either. The importance of the Chamber is precisely the provision of information to the Chamber, and it seems that MP Van der Steur considers the position of the Minister more important, because it is a VVD minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u182	I didn't draw that conclusion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u183	I heard him. Finally. The Minister is now saying in detail: I did not want this text to go out at all, but it has already been said that he wanted a lot of other texts out of it, when you think, if you read them, that is information that might have given rise to discussion, but which should really have ended up in the Chamber. For example, you say that mostly no answer to the question, but perhaps it is necessary to safeguard the future. Then I say: if it is not an answer to the question, put it behind it: do give that answer! But it says here in so many words: no, it is good that you do not answer the question, officials, because that is what is needed for the future. Well, honestly, that's not a request for better information to the Chamber, that's a request for cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u184	I do not support that conclusion. At the request of Mr Segers, I said what I thought was the background to this, and this is also reflected in the letter sent to the Chamber this morning. I would also like to point out that there is no full answer to the question, and I find that worrying, because it was a reproach that was made much more often and earlier. That is also mentioned in one of my other comments. It wasn't about 750,000, it was about 4.7 million: just answer the question! In that too you can see that in my opinions I say that the answers must simply be correct and correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u185	I have already indicated in my term of office, in an interruption debate with Mr Pechtold, that I think it is right for the Minister to say: look, on some of the comments I say very clearly 'delete' or 'adapt', and here I am not saying that. That is indeed a difference, but if you just put down a warning sign with "very vulnerable', isn't the foreseeable effect that you will say: shouldn't we leave it out, because MP Van der Steur points out that this is very vulnerable, beware of this? Isn't that the foreseeable effect that's going to be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u186	It was not meant to be, of course, because otherwise I would have done the same with the first mention in the letter. That amount shall be reported twice. The same answer occurs twice. At the first time I say: then you have to check whether you have ever said anything else about it, assuming it is published. And the second time I say: very vulnerable, why is that only now? My intention was merely to express the incomprehension of why so long has been so difficult about the memory of Secretary of State Teeven, as I said in December and June. I never understood, and I don't think I'll ever understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u187	But what was the effect that then MP Van der Steur intended with that remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u188	I think you should at least explain why you didn't report it until now. You have to at least explain why you can do that now, when even later on that same day I was told: no, those are personal notes. That was the argument, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u189	It was then deleted from the letter. Then the question, not to then MP Van der Steur, but simply to the Minister of Security and Justice: why wasn't under your responsibility just what was in the draft letter kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u190	For the record, the letter was sent by my predecessor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u191	It's your responsibility, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u192	That's my responsibility now. That is what we agree on. In the meantime, it was the responsibility of Mr Blok. I don't know. I said earlier in the debate, and I also speculated about it in December, that I believe that the publication of the receipt itself has played an important role. First of all, it was established that the memory of Secretary of State Teeven was incorrect, 7.1 versus finally the amount of 4.7 million. The second is that, of course, that was the jumping point. Apparently it was then chosen to repeat the quote of Van Brummen, which was, of course, a quote from an investigation that was then thought to be a proper investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u193	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u194	Finally. It also played a role in the debate a number of times just now. What was the purpose of the MP Van der Steur to be involved in the letter in this way? He already said he shouldn't have done it that way. I agreed with that; that is what we have said. But now it seems as if it was some kind of parliamentary service role, while it is quite obvious that, in the role of MP from the supporting party, you were also doing service to the cabinet to see if that letter could not cause problems for the cabinet. It's not weird that there's an important role in that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u195	That's not weird either. That is what we have exchanged with each other. That doesn't mean I shouldn't have. Mr Van der Staaij and I agree on that. Let's look back at the whole file. In the discussion it was reproach that was always made, from the calculation made by my predecessor until the day of resignation: we do not get the information. So the discussion always ran along the line: are we well informed? That is why I ask the question on all these points: explain it better, give more information; you give the suggestion sister or you pretend it is, but just make sure it's really right, that it's really okay. That was my intention. I also stated in the June debate that I was sometimes very concerned about the criticism, including from the Chamber, that there was a vague answer. I didn't think I should.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u196	The Minister is now trying to tell us that he never meant for it to come out. That was the result is a fact, but that was not his intention. Then the Minister may explain the following. In the morning, he got that letter, the first draft letter. He provides them with comments, including the phrase "vulnerable." Then he gets the second concept at 6:45 p.m. That's where it was taken out. Why didn't MP Van der Steur say at the time: "What is happening here? I just wanted it to be made clearer!"? You didn't respond to the second draft letter, in which it was taken out. If I really want to believe you, you should be able to tell me that you went to the Ministry on high feet, to the Minister or I don't know who in the whole world, to say: that must be in it; I got that information, that should never come out. That doesn't say anything. It didn't happen. You just fucked us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u197	May I remind you that that was 9 March 2015, the day when there was a big discussion against the evening about whether both directors could stay on? I've, I think, but I'm not sure, because it was an extremely hectic day with a lot of worries never seen that whole e-mail again. At that time, to my best knowledge, there has been no or hardly any discussion on this issue. Eventually, I assume, the letter was sent. I understand that Mr Roemer makes that point. We have had this debate with each other before. I have been to the department in the afternoon, as Mr Oosting's reconstruction also states. I have to say, I don't have a lot of memory of the hecticness of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u198	With all due respect, it's the most crucial part. The Minister does not call this passage extremely vulnerable for nothing. He himself senses that what's out there is explosive. Why hasn't the Chamber been informed? The Minister now wants us to believe that it was his intention that the Chamber should be informed. He will then be informed at 6.45 p.m. with the second draft letter. He's been involved all day. Now he says he can't remember and that it's no longer relevant whether it's there or not. That's totally unbelievable, isn't it? Then it's hard to believe the rest of your story, if you make such a big point, are involved all day, you see in the second draft letter that it's been taken out and you're not doing anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u199	I'm just saying I don't think I saw that second concept at all that day. That information was then provided, but it was no longer relevant. That is what I said in the debate in December. The Secretary of State's memory did not match the amount actually transferred. That was the crucial information of that day. I don't know what else happened. That is a fact, however, and we cannot ignore it. The whole discussion was about what that Cees H. finally got from the government. That was the discussion and not something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u200	The fact is that you got it at 6:45 p.m., that it was the most essential part of the whole debate and that you made the biggest point of your comments. Now you act like you've forgotten, while you know everything else. You also did not mention that the second concept was still in place. You didn't intervene. I'm sorry, but if we're gonna have to believe all this at home...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u201	For the record, there were 23 comments and this was a point. An important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u202	It was the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u203	No, it wasn't the point. It was one of 23 points on which I made two comments. That remark means that I assume it will be published. The way things went down that day, I don't know. As a Member of Parliament, I was only side by side involved. I find that it has disappeared over time. I think the only thing I can do here is indicate what I think the crucial difference has been the find of the receipt and the loss of relevance of the memory that turned out to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Chairman. Finally, and then I'm gonna stop talking about it. This is the most relevant part. This was explosive. This is a lie. It has been said that Secretary of State Bitch couldn't remember. You're facing evidence that he could have remembered, that the Chamber was simply lied to. MP Van der Steur sees the hard evidence that the Chamber has been lied to. You rightly write "vulnerable, why hasn't the Chamber been informed before?'. Then you will see at 18.45 that it has been removed and then it is at once irrelevant and you can't remember. Please, Minister, draw your conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u205	No, I'm sticking to my point of view. I don't think I dug him up at the time, that 18:45 letter. There was a huge hectic effect. There's been a lot of discussion. There is a whole reconstruction available. The letter was then sent under the responsibility of the Minister for Security and Justice. I think I do not know that the big difference was that the receipt had been found and that it was known what the actual amount was, namely the amount that Newsuur had mentioned a week earlier. That was the big news and that's what we were looking for together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u206	For people who are still trying to understand: The Hague was looking for two things at that time. Is Nieuwsuur's claim that it is not 2 million but 4.7 million? And is there any evidence of Mr. Bitch's memory? Those were the questions. In the morning on that Monday, at 10:16 p.m., we do it very precisely. Van der Steur sends proposals to adapt texts in answers. These results in those things that become clear at the time, namely that Bitch did have a memory and that part of that amount was even very close to 4.7... let's leave what Van der Steur advises in the middle for a moment in the course of the day in the following concepts. And what does Mr Oosting II's report say? That all day working on the draft letter, all Monday. You see all these concepts and, to be quite precise, you get another concept, just like MP Dijkhoff, from the political assistant of General Affairs, at 18.44. You will see that it is not there: what we are all looking for. That is why we do not trust that your instructions were intended to inform us. As a result, the information just went out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u207	Now Mr Pechtold is tying together a number of facts that cannot be tied together. The description given by Mr Oosting is accurate. I wasn't involved in all those versions. I haven't seen any of them either. It was a purely internal discussion within the department, a department that panicked about the final find of the receipt. Of course, all kinds of consequences have arisen for the answer. I have already indicated to Mr Roemer in the debate in December that I found and that it should have been mentioned. I thought and felt it should have been done a long time ago. That is the determination I made as a Member of Parliament. As a minister, I ensured that the Oosting Committee could do its job properly by handing all the information necessary for the committee to reach a final judgment to the Oosting Committee. Her mission was to investigate, among other things, the provision of information to the Chamber. That goes without saying, that was the jumping point that it has always been about for one and a half to two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u208	Yes, but this wasn't about the minister. It was about the secretary of state. Is that where the Minister's report from Oosting II lies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u209	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u210	Then I challenge you to read on page 149, halfway, exactly what you are doing that day. "The draft letter was continued throughout Monday 9 March. In addition..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u211	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u212	Mr President, may I quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u213	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u214	"The Lower House members Van der Steur and Dijkhoff were also involved." They were involved all day. That's what it says right here. If we had known then, in the outcome of this report, that you gave advice in the morning that led to... If the crucial amount was known and there was indeed a memory of Teeven, then you should have fought all day. Then you should have shouted at the moment that dg Roes walked to his room and opened the vault: now there are those numbers again; I read it this morning; that's what all of The Hague is looking for; boys, outside with that trade, we found it! You didn't, you just didn't! For nine months, while you are a minister and are even ministerially responsible for what has been done by your predecessor, there is not a single moment when you think: yes, that is exactly what they asked for; that is what Pechtold asked for, Buma, Roemer, all spokesmen, everyone asked for. This story is true and your story smells.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u215	I am sorry for Mr Pechtold, but his interpretation of what is there is really wrong. I went to the department once on that Monday, March 9. That was the conversation I left from. Then I returned in the evening when the pandemonium was now complete. In the meantime, I didn't cooperate on concepts. That has been an official matter. I did get them, but I don't think I saw that version later either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u216	Boy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mr Pechtold can question my words, and he does so with joy, and he likes to do so, but it is as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u218	If you can come up with 23 changes in the morning, won't you be interested in seeing what happened to them for the rest of the day? I'm starting to really start... fool someone else but don't take me so low that you think someone can tell me this! I've been at it for months. The whole of the Netherlands is wondering what we are doing. It's turning from the fucking beginning, "no, you can't call it a conversation note; you have to call it a cat bell, a personal note." It's every time you look for words, for last excuses. If the Minister had really wanted to get us that information, he would have fought for it. He would've talked to Recourt. She didn't know. He didn't have it. No, it's the VVDs! All things that were the same. Mr Van der Steur was in the process of taking the Minister out of the wind, until suddenly... hey, that receipt was found! And not in one place, no, in three places!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr Pechtold's play is not based on facts. I think that the facts should simply be taken into account in this respect. I have only made one remark that I have made twice, namely that I assumed that this information would be shared with the Chamber. If, in my opinion, that does not happen then, but I do not know because the receipt had been found by now and the relevance of the reminder of Secretary of State Teeven who turned out to be incorrect had expired, I can understand that in itself. But I have already said that I found and think that information should have been sent to the Chamber. I also indicated to Mr Roemer in December that I had ensured that the Oosting Committee would investigate this. The task of the Oosting Committee was to look at the information provided to the Chamber. That was exactly the way we agreed. That's not something I came up with; that's what we agreed on. We also agreed that all relevant information was sent to the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u220	What arrogance and what an inappropriate lightness when you say that you don't know exactly whether you have seen that e-mail or that message or not. I'd just like to know. I would like to know whether Mr Van der Steur saw this e-mail at the time, whether he opened it and whether he actually responded to it, by e-mail, telephone or in person. I actually need a reconstruction of that day and of the moments when there has been contact with the department. Perhaps no changes have been made with track changes, but I cannot imagine that after the 23 changes of that morning there has been no contact, via a political assistant or via the department, about what should happen to that letter. I just don't believe it. That's why I'm requesting a reconstruction of that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u221	That is what the Oosting Committee has done: it has made an extensive reconstruction of the day. He has indicated how things have gone. I'm here to tell you what my role has been in that. It has also been discussed extensively in the media. My role was, in a way, limited on an extremely hectic day which led to the resignation of two directors because of the provision of information to the Chamber. Let us not forget that this was ultimately the situation. I do not have a story of that day and I cannot therefore comply with the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u222	The minister says it's all mapped out by Oosting. That's what we thought. That is exactly what Mr Pechtold has just quoted. But the Minister himself states that it is not true, that he really didn't write those answers for the rest of the day and that he didn't see the concept anymore either. We all find that hard to believe. As I understand it, at least there is the database of the mail of MP Van der Steur. I'm curious to look into that: when was the e-mail opened, at what time? I'd like to know when there's been contact with the department. Did that go over the phone, are there any appointments in the calendar? I understand that it cannot be done now, and I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to do so, but this is a crucial day. This is a crucial moment to really find out whether the MP Van der Steur was at the time trying to save his ass or his party's, or whether he was in the process of providing information to the Chamber. That's what we're all looking for and asking for here. I would therefore ask the Minister once again to take a moment and to map that out for us, because that is crucial to our judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u223	That was the task of the Oosting Committee. The Oosting Committee has done extensive research on this. I think we should just leave it at that, otherwise we will now have the Oosting III Committee. In this respect, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that we must close this dossier at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u224	As far as I'm concerned, that's not enough. I'm not asking for an Easter Commission. This is about the memory of this minister. He says, "Yeah, I don't remember exactly. This is crucial. I want him to dig into his memory and see what's left in the database that's still available and in his calendar. He's got a lot of phone records. That's not a very comprehensive question. He could just take care of that for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u225	You don't have to, because there was no response to that e-mail. The East Commission would have seen that otherwise. There was no response to that e-mail from the beginning of the evening. At the end of the evening, I think the letter was finally sent, under the responsibility of the Minister. I went to the department once. That was the conversation I left from when that interview report came on the table. Afterwards, in the evening, I returned and went there again, but then the resignation of both regiments was a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u226	The minister wants the book closed, but the book could have closed by now. It could have closed a long time ago if Secretary of State Teeven's memory had been shared immediately and if Minister Opstelten's incorrect information had been shared and corrected. That didn't happen. We could have put an end to that for a long time. This MP, the current minister, was the only MP to know that crucial information was available. In the final letter, which came to him again in concept, at 6:44 p.m. on 9 March 2015, the crucial information was extracted and it was said again: insufficient reminder of Secretary of State Bitches. When did MP Van der Steur find out that passage, which he himself thought was very vulnerable, because it was not previously shared with the Chamber, was taken out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u227	I think I looked at that last letter again at night, as I said. I have no memory of whether I noticed that point at the time. The whole situation had also changed completely. The receipt was found. The receipt that Nieuwsuur had been looking for for all these months and which Nieuwsuur has been saying for a long time that it was there, had been found. That was available. That was the crucial information of that day. I agree with Mr Segers that this reminder should have been shared earlier; we do not have a discussion about it. I would like to point out that the incorrect information provided by Minister Opstelten has also been corrected by him, contrary to what Mr Segers says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u228	It's not about the amount, because in his notes, in the margin, MP Van der Steur already writes about 4.7, about 4.8. He already knows what's been wired. That's what he's writing about. Why? News hours have presented that. News hour has the exact amount. That's what he's writing about. What was the vulnerability? What was "very vulnerable"? The fact that Secretary of State Teven did remember something and that it had not previously been shared with the Chamber. That was the vulnerability and not the amount. No, the vulnerability was the memory of Secretary of State Bitch. That's what it's been two years. For two years we are told "insufficient memory"; that was the phrase. Maybe you came up with that phrase yourself. That was the phrase that was written down every time. And then you read that there was a very sharp memory. It wasn't 7.1. Because when Teeven looks back in interviews, in Het Parool and in 24 hours with Theo Maassen, he says: I knew very well; not 4.7, I thought 4.8. It was 4.7. He had a very sharp memory. When was the first time you knew it wasn't an insufficient memory but a pretty accurate memory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u229	I'll start with the first question. The Secretary of State's reminder was about the total amount, according to the conversation note. I've got it right here in front of me. He also says, however, that he does not know what was actually transferred. That was the crucial question: what was finally transferred? The Secretary of State and the then officer came at 7.1 million as a total amount available. Of course, that's really different from that 4.7. I have always assumed that I also said in December that this 4.7 million from Nieuwsuur would be right, also because it was consistent with the earlier one I, I thought, mentioned attorney Doedens of about 5 million. I always assumed it was that amount. That is why I also write down when the department answers about the 750,000, which was apparently a settlement part, that this is not what the Chamber means. I write: in my opinion, the Chamber means the 4.7 million; answer that. That is my point. Once again, it is intended to ensure that the Chamber is carefully and correctly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u230	In response to questions from the CDA, this minister, then MP, writes that 4.8 million has been transferred through the State's Attorney's Office. He knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u231	It was 4.7 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u232	4.8 million; he writes that. He knew that's what this was about. On page 88 of the book of Bas Haan, Teeven, quoted there, speaks about his memory. That memory is very sharp: 4.8 million. It was 4.7 million in the end, but he remembered 4.8 million. They knew very well what it was about. If that is regarded as "very vulnerable" by MP Van der Steur, then can't he just let that go? He gets the e-mail, he gets the answers, the committee gets over it, but he just lets it go? He knows it's vulnerable, that this is the point that it's always been about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u233	Again. The Secretary of State talks about a total amount of 7.1 million, as shown in the interview report. This amount consists of 2.3 million of the amount held and interest on interest of 4.8 million, representing 7.1 million. That is not what Mr Segers says. I don't write in my comment "That's comment AS7, on page 9, for those who look over the internet; they can then look at it over that 4.8 million. I'm talking about the 4.7 million. What's that amount? That is the amount mentioned by Newsuur. I think that's what the question was about. I didn't think that question was answered properly. So I wrote down: you have to change it, you have to explain what's going on with that 4.7 million and not go back to an amount of 750,000, which is not asked for at all. This is another example of my intention to ensure that the questions of the Chamber are answered carefully and properly, namely to answer the question as it is intended. It is just as I accept that Mr Teeven's sums are mentioned in his reminder. I would point out that I do not understand why it is only then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u234	I don't want to get into that money debate at all. Actually, uh... AS8 I don't have about AS7... is about the amount interest on interest: 4.8 million. And what does MP Van der Steur write: "This passage raises many questions. If there was no seizure of interest, why was it booked through the return account?" That was 4.8 million, not 7.1 million. This is what MP Van der Steur writes about. But even so, we're putting it aside. The MP Van der Steur knew this was vulnerable, received the concept of 18.44 hours and received the final letter of Parliament, but he let it go. I really can't understand why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u235	I replied to that in December. Mr Roemer asked me that. I understand that question, too. Roemer asked: why didn't you then do something about it as a Member of Parliament? I replied that I wouldn't know what to do. What I have done as a minister is to ensure that the mandate of the Oosting Committee has been aligned with the Chamber and that all the questions of the Chamber have been included so that the Oosting Committee could examine the information to be provided to the Chamber, which is what this is about. That's what happened. That's how we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u236	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u237	In committee-Easting I that mail didn't come up. That didn't happen until Oosting II. What did you do when that e-mail didn't come by or discussed? That crucial information and that crucial day didn't pass through Oosting I. You knew it, but it remained unspoken. Nowhere in Oosting I can be found somewhere that mail played a role, but you kept quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u238	I made sure that that e-mail was also available in Oosting II. The interview report is on the Oosting I Committee. That's also public. We have made all the necessary information available to Oosting I and II. There's no discussion about that. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u239	I will also go on at this point, because this was exactly my question. Your first defence is that you didn't think it was relevant anymore, because the real figures were already above the table. But at a moment later, you did realise that it was incomplete not to send that memory publicly to the Chamber. You have also confirmed this in previous debates. My question is therefore: why were all these draft reports, which this was also part of, not sent to Oosting I? These personal notes, if I am correct, have only been sent to Oosting II.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u240	No, all the interview reports, so all of my annotations were sent to Oosting, in the Director General's file on law enforcement and justice. This e-mail was never in there. I do not wish to impose any further burden on you, but this e-mail has never reached the official concerned. That is why I do not know exactly what its effect has been. It doesn't have to, because it was advice, so it's what it is. In Oosting II we discovered that and we still transferred this mail. That's what they took with them back then. The investigating official, the Director-General, has never had this e-mail in his file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u241	Then the Minister did not make an active contribution to making this sensitive information public, did he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u242	Yes, I did, because I actively handed it over to the committee as soon as I found out it wasn't in the first file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u243	But that wasn't until Oosting II. We have also noted, on the basis of the debate, that there has not been an active notion taken by the Chamber that there were notes from you personally that were relevant to the Chamber. At the time when this could be done first, namely at Oosting I, it was not actively communicated to the Chamber. My question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u244	Because we agreed with the Chamber that all relevant documents would be handed over to the Oosting Committee. That is what happened with the complete dossier of that day, with all the thirty versions, which Mr Verhoeven later asked for. That complete file has been transferred. I then discovered, as a result of discussions with the Oosting Committee, that it might not be known. I wasn't sure about that either, because I didn't know what the Oosting Committee had seen. I then made it available to the Oosting Committee and so it was also dealt with on page 149.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u245	I have to say that it did not happen actively at Oosting I, but that this only happened at Oosting II and that it was not actively pointed out that there was an omission in the provision of information to Oosting I, at least in an annex and in a reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u246	No, I sent an e-mail to the Oosting Committee following our conversation and said: I do not know if you have this document, but I am sending it just to be sure, because I am not sure if it was in the original file. That is not what it turned out to be, and I have now established that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u247	A new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u248	Yes, I hear now that the minister says that the e-mail he sent in the morning never arrived. That's what he's saying now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u249	No, it did arrive at the person who sent the e-mail, namely the political assistant of the then minister, but he was never continued in the file of the officials who were updating the letter. I do not know whether and how that letter and my comments have played a role, which is why I did not mention it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u250	Now it's starting to blow my brains out. In the morning, you write changes. You send that to the political assistant, in science, hoping or assuming that this is involved. Now it turns out that those who were writing that letter never got it, but strangely enough, it happened exactly what you wanted. And you'll be there all day, because that's what we read in Oosting II. And then another crazy one I'm suddenly getting in. After Oosting II we have a lot of hassle here to open a Chamber Email account of yours as a Member of Parliament. That's where it was. But when you went to hand over your things yourself, he wasn't in it. Where did you take him? Did you have him on paper or where was he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u251	In the file of the political assistant. That's where we found him and then handed him over to the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u252	And you didn't come up with the idea that you had a chamber box of your own? That was the whole thing after that. Then we went to open that chamber box, and then all those changes came. Why did you just come up with the story that all these changes of yours didn't go any further than that political assistant? That is what you are bringing up in the debate, when we are just exposing that all your amendments have been dealt with that day and that you have been there all day. Then you have oral... Yeah, that's it! You said orally all day long: take it out!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr. Pechtold makes it beautiful. I haven't been there all day. I walked there in the afternoon. That's what it says in all the reconstructions. I left the moment the personal notes, as they were called, came on the table. I sent my e-mail in the morning. We have not been able to determine how and whether this has been taken into account. And since I can't establish that, I can't rule it out either, and if you can't rule something out, then you don't have to take a stand on it either. All I can say is that I don't know if my e-mail has played a role. I haven't been able to establish that. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u254	Mr Roemer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u255	A final question, Madam President. Mr Van der Steur has now heard about the whole Chamber. The contributions, with the exception of those of the VVD Group and a few other groups, have clearly shown that there is a great deal of criticism about actively informing the Chamber, its credibility. Does this minister himself think he can stay on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u256	I have made it clear from the outset that I believe that my involvement in advising the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice has exceeded the limits, as Mr Van der Staaij said so beautifully in the first debate, given the role of the legislator on the one hand and the role of the controller on the other. I do not think I should have taken that role on that 9 March, on that 4 March or before. I indicated this to Mr Buma in December. I also think that I have crossed boundaries with that. I myself stand for the intentions I have had with the advice I have given. There is nothing to show that at this crucial point, which we are debating all day, what Nieuwsuur concludes is true, namely that I would have asked for that to be deleted. It doesn't say that, and it wasn't my intention. To anyone who tries to explain that differently, I say that doesn't make sense, because you can blame me a lot, but if I wanted to delete something, I would write on "delete" or report it. And those were my advice. We then agreed that the Oosting Committee would carry out research. All the documents have been made available to it, to the Oosting I Committee and to the Oosting II Committee. A report has been drawn up, which also states that crucial mistakes have been made. These conclusions have been taken over by the cabinet. That makes it clear to me that my role should have been different than it was and that the facts in no way support I would have lied or that I would have tried to put things under the table. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u257	Mr Houwers, I see you want to interrupt. This point has been sufficiently changed. Perhaps you have a new point? I do not want to repeat the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u258	I do have a new point. I have asked whether others have been involved in this, for example group chairman Zijlstra. I imagine you'd consult with more people in such a political context. I'm hearing from the minister's political assistant. I asked the question. I hear the Minister wants to stop the answer now. That is fine, but then my question remains: are there others involved, such as the group chairman or the prime minister? If the Prime Minister answers that question, that is fine, but I would like that question answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u259	Mr Houwers has put this question to the Prime Minister. He'll answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u260	There is a formal trust and there is a trust that you feel during a debate. We will undoubtedly see, later this evening, if there are any possible votes on motions on the role of this minister, whether he can make it or not. But can't the minister see what's happening? He's been in this position for about two years now. There were many debates about his performance. I don't remember any of them having ended with cheers, quite the contrary. Even now: the contribution of most of the Members who have spoken only shows mistrust. That's a sign of suspicion. Again, I am not talking about the political sense of that word. We'll see about that tonight with possible votes. That shows suspicion of you as a minister. That was also shown by a poll at, what was it, One Today. There, I believe, 83% of the Dutch thought that you, Minister, should go. You do not already have that confidence among the population, and here you still have sublimated suspicion of you, apart from the polls. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether or not you are the plush-sticker who is going to count heads and may or may not stay with one or two different votes. Or do you say, Minister, the following? Yeah, I didn't do well for two years. I screwed up here a lot. Things have happened that shouldn't have happened. The people in the country don't trust me anymore. Here I see that almost the entire opposition and perhaps even more Members do not actually believe it. I'm quitting. I'm also doing the Netherlands a favor. Minister, isn't that worth considering right now at dinner break?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u261	I thank Mr Wilders for his suggestions. I note that, fortunately, several debates have been concluded with cheering, for example, on strengthening the fight against terrorism, improving the position of victims and unanimously adopting the budget, with a structural allocation of 450 million extra for security. There have also been difficult debates. That is the fate of a minister of security and justice: that you are also having difficult debates. I would like to thank Mr Wilders for his suggestion, and I will give it some thought in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u262	Well, in due course... It was meant for right away, during dinner break, if that's all right with you. But again, I'm not kidding. It was a suggestion, but it's a serious thing. Your position, your office is a serious one, and you've made a mess of it. I do not want to say that everything you have done was bad, but you have lost the confidence of a large part of the Dutch population and also of a large part of the opposition here, if not of almost the entire opposition. In a time, just before the elections, when it is necessary to have someone who has confidence in that place, you would be doing the Netherlands a favour, and I am not even talking about your party, because fortunately I am not going to say: if 83% of the Dutch think I should resign, if I am going to be in the Chamber for about two or three hours only interrupting people who do not believe me or at least have their doubts, I must stop. If you don't, you're a plush sticker, someone who likes to sit in the back of his head knowing he shouldn't. I would like to ask you once again: why don't you sit down at dinner break and think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. I have been asked a number of questions. I shall begin with Mrs Kuik's question on the somewhat formalistic attitude towards Fred Teeven's role as a prosecutor. I've seen reason to be very reluctant in that. I thought it was necessary to ask him about what he was doing at that time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u264	The Prime Minister is now addressing a number of factual questions, but I do want an analysis from him. How does he view the position of the Minister for Security and Justice, after all the questions that have been asked and the inadequate answers that have been given?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u265	I didn't think it was a faulty answer, and I trust him. That's the brief summary. I found him very adequate answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u266	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u267	I'm going on. I was just explaining how that related...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u268	The Prime Minister's confidence in the Minister of Security and Justice is good to hear, but does he also see that there must be a basis of confidence in the working relationship between a parliament and a minister and that that basis at this time is, I say, without any votes being taken? How does the Prime Minister assess that in a matter, in a ministry that is the guardian of the rule of law and that should address what needs to be addressed, with a minister, who is at least extremely vulnerable at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u269	I repeat the previous answer. I trust him. I found the answers adequate and striking. There have been some crazy things in the last few days, and he's explained them exactly. Firstly, he would have had the aim of deleting those amounts. He explained that he wasn't. Secondly, he walked away from the conversation with Roes when he went to read that note because he wouldn't want to know those amounts. He explained that he already knew those amounts and ran away for another reason. Thirdly, he interfered with the Minister's letters. That was the third theme. That is what the debate was about in December 2015. We have all said that we have gone too far. Those conclusions were drawn at that time. Fourthly, more generally, the retouches were the amendments to the letter. I think they have been explained convincingly. Fifthly, there is the question: should he have sent it to the Chamber separately and was the Oosting Committee there to organize the information to the Chamber? He has also responded effectively to this. I therefore considered the answers to be adequate and effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u270	And then there's a final question. We live in a world in which there is a lot of sophistication and all pieces have been watched. Has the coalition been informed in advance of this debate: oh, this will be fine, the coalition will continue to support him? Or, for example, does the Labour Party have the complete freedom to make its own judgement here tonight? Has there been any prior contact and can the Prime Minister make an assessment for himself in the light of the fact that he is standing here in an extremely light-hearted manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u271	I'm not standing here light-heartedly. You only ask me for an analysis of Mr Van der Steur's words. I said I think it's adequate. I trust him. I understand his intentions. I think he explained it well, too. Furthermore, all the groups are here to make a final assessment at the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u272	I've been starting to wonder over the last few weeks why I hear so much about people having such trouble with Rutte and his behavior. And now I suddenly had that insight after two words: "appropriate" and "effective." Where the previous debate was still a kneel, almost a plea from the Prime Minister it was the toughest debate ever and he even kept looking back on it as "so heavy" there is now just an armor. From the first minute that the book was known, it was "nothing news," "nothing news researched" and to anyone who dared to ask a critical question, it was "stand aside, move through, people, nothing wrong." That's the Rutte I've known for the past six years at times like this. A little intimidating the rest so much that you all think: well, what am I supposed to ask? Do you now realize that the Minister has really been unclear for a whole Monday and that the end of the debate was that his memory left him, that he didn't remember how things had turned out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u273	There are two elements in Mr Pechtold's remarks. Eventually, there was also a question. However, there were at least two elements in Mr Pechtold's comments. The first element is a review of December 2015. That was indeed a very heavy debate, because there have really been some very serious mistakes on this subject. I mentioned three at the time. I said at the time that we could have just provided the note, the interview report. The second lesson we learned at that time is that we have continued to interfere too long from the cabinet with the way things are going in the departments. The last point, of course, is the question of what exactly happened. I was just trying to answer that question from Mrs Kuik and I will come back to it in a moment. We then learned those three lessons. I have just been asked a question about this debate. So I'm going back to Monday night. What were the new facts? Van der Steur ran away because he was afraid to hear amounts he already knew. He knew those amounts; he ran away for another reason. He explained that. The second fact is: Van der Steur deliberately tried to remove amounts. He explained that he didn't. The third fact is, he shouldn't have interfered with this type of letter. The answer to that is yes. We're right about that. This was also one of the conclusions of December 2015. I try to answer Mr Buma's question with all my heart. My reaction on Monday wasn't "just keep walking, there's nothing wrong." There's a serious book written by a serious journalist. It is right that we should all pay attention to this. But at the points we were talking about in the media on Monday, it was and is my belief that there are no new relevant facts involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u274	I read that book and I read it again yesterday. I got the feeling there was a parliamentary survey. There was a parliamentary survey on the relationship between the underworld and the upperworld. That's what our predecessors in this Chamber learned from it. They said we should never do that again. And what exactly is the common thread through that whole bitch receipt story? That we've had a Secretary of State who just connected that top and underworld with one ease. That if any money was needed that came from a Brussels auction building, well, that was settled for a while. Then it was arranged that an alibi was also laundered. In fact, it almost went so far that there was a Cees H. lawyer at the ministry. The minute it came out, they just called again. It's one big story. If you turned it into a movie scenario, you'd almost say, "Well, that's a little exaggerated." But no, it was. Now we are dealing with a Prime Minister who asks us to trust and act normally, while we are just sitting here as a whole politically, because we are playing words that the Prime Minister is trying to get us to do. Remember, I was not allowed to speak of a "conversation report." I had to say "personal notes." This week, the Prime Minister was at RTL Late Night and he was talking about "that interview report." We've been here for hours and hours dimming the question of whether it was an official report. By now we know that there were just paraphrases on it, that it was in the safe at the ministry and that it was of course official. Now: adequate and careful, a stunting minister... Maybe the Prime Minister will force it tonight at the PvdA. I'll see. The whole of the Netherlands, however, thinks: what the hell are they doing? The Prime Minister said "be normal" to the rest of society. We had this little debate here once. I'd almost say act normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u275	We shuffle all the facts together, and we don't look for nuances. I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. Let me explain one aspect: the notes. We discussed this in December 2015 on the occasion of Oosting I. That's when I told you how it went that night. I didn't know that part. I knew the play was there, but I hadn't seen it. I was told they were personal notes from the official. I said in the debate on 10 March 2015 that I did not feel justified in sharing that piece, because it was about personal policy ideas. That's how it was reported to me. I said we're putting it in the hands of the Committee of Inquiry. The Committee of Inquiry looked at it and published it in its report of December that year. In the debate on 16 December 2015, I also noted that I could have just given it. I should have taken a longer break in that debate. So we have talked about this in detail. We have drawn conclusions on this and I said at that time that we must deal with it in a different way. Now we go all the way back as if that whole debate had not been there and whether we are still talking about a personal note. I also said I didn't know that part. I saw it in the break. That's the famous story about the evil eye, et cetera. We all know that. I only ask Mr Pechtold to outline how the debate on these subjects has gone so far. That's how I know him. If he then narrows it down to what I initially said about this on 10 March 2015 and does not mention the reflections afterwards, an incomplete picture will arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u276	Rutte's prime ministership and the interpretation of an important article, namely the obligation to inform the Chamber, therefore means that if you have not been able to catch a cabinet in a lie in an earlier debate, you can never bring it up again when new facts emerge. That's actually what he's saying right now. I think it's a shame we have to talk about this so much. Of course, we're trying to figure out how to avoid the question of trust, but we're being sent into the fog, into the swamp. Let's go see that little A4 guy. What was it again? The evil eye. It was an A4 with one amount, one number on it. The Prime Minister didn't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u277	There were two amounts of money on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u278	Okay, two numbers. There wasn't even a page number on it, because it was one A4. There were two numbers. The Prime Minister insists that he hasn't been able to see it. Does he know how many people in his neighborhood, all VVDs, now it turns out they'd seen this? Does he know how much? Does he know how many people in his immediate vicinity, ministers, senators and political assistants of the VVD, who knew this by now? We had to figure that out with scribbling. There's about eight of them. We still have to believe today, now that all this is in that book, that he did not know it, because it was also discussed in an earlier debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u279	Just as complete and straightforward, straight forward. I hear in the afternoon of 10 March in preparation for the debate that there is such a note. In the evening in the break, I say that these are notes in a discussion report, and Mr Pechtold refers to that. In December, we found that it could have just been shared. I see that and I tell you about it. In the meantime, the amount of 4.7 was known. The evil eye falls at 4.8. I didn't see the 2.3. It appears that the memory is not reliable, because Mr Teeven comes to a total of 7.1. We knew by now that the amount transferred was 4.7. I can see that 4.8. I share all this on March 10, 2015. That's how it happened. Mr Pechtold can say that all kinds of people knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u280	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u281	I am going to finish, because Mr Pechtold is making a very serious accusation. He says: Rutte actually had much more knowledge of this; he has seen the piece before and knew about it. That's not true. I hear it's there in the afternoon. I see it in the pause of the debate. My eye is on one of the two amounts. I recognize that because it's very close to that 4.7. Later it turns out to be a totally different amount that has been added to 7.1. This is reflected in the Oosting I report. I agree with Mr Pechtold that if I had had a longer suspension in December when we were debating the House, I could have just shared that with the Chamber in March. I'm right about that. This was the case between 10 March 2015 and the debate on 16 December, after the Oosting report had been published. That's from a to z how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u282	It's so beautifully exposed in the book. When Red Ron, an underworld figure, happens to meet the Prime Minister at a hospital, he says, "God, there's gonna be more whining." Then the Prime Minister calls Bitch in five minutes to ask: what else is there? Meanwhile, it turns out that in the whole process of finding out what the amount was and how it came to be, he could have asked Bitch every day. However, all the time that Bitch was Secretary of State, he was never asked to do so. That's what's being exposed, Prime Minister. It is revealed that under your guidance there is a constant desire not to provide optimal information. If necessary, half the information will be given, so that we may be able to form half the judgment. They look away every time. That's the red thread in the book. If you read that, you'll see your part in it. And then I find it really difficult to say that the Minister has just responded adequately and carefully. 'Cause he was fucking around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u283	This is much more fundamental. Mr Pechtold questioned what I was saying about those remarks. He is now also questioning my comment that I do not know or have never asked Fred Teeven what those amounts were. I was actually answering Mrs Kuik's question about why I didn't. The reason is that I have always said that it could combine the role of District Attorney Bitch in a very uncomfortable way with the role of Secretary of State Bitches. Information could also come out about deals that have been made in the past, which could put people at risk. I noted in the debate in December 2015 that I was too precise and could have asked for more. That is what I would have liked to have said to Mrs Kuik. That's right. That was the political conclusion and one of the three lessons I drew from the whole dossier. I shared that with the Chamber in 2015. I will say again to Mr Pechtold that I have never asked Mr Teeven how high the amount was. I never asked: is it true what the Opstelten says about it or is that amount higher or lower? I never did that for the reason I just outlined. I never saw those conversation notes before the debate took place here on 10 March 2015. That's the truth. The advantage of this interruption is that I have answered many of Mr Pechtold's questions. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u284	There is a question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u285	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u286	I have to think of Loesje's poster, which says: "Power abuse: that sounds a bit double-conscious to me." Is the Prime Minister prepared to acknowledge that, in the relationship of trust between the cabinet and parliament, something more fundamental does indeed play than, so to speak, a professional who is going to build a house, wonders what type of stone he will use and then choose a particular type of stone, but later thinks: I should have chosen the other one? Minister Van der Steur says: as a Member of Parliament, I should not have interfered with the answers to my own parliamentary questions. That's gonna be much deeper than just admitting you made a mistake. There is a fundamental distrust of the power of the cabinet, isn't there? Does the Prime Minister recognise that there is a much greater task for the Cabinet to fulfil the confidence that it enjoys in this Chamber, of course, in a comfortable state law? The moment you do things that betray that trust, you have to go far beyond what Minister Van der Steur has just done. He operated here like a caught schoolboy and only responded to facts that have come up. Does the Prime Minister recognise that a good relationship between the cabinet and parliament requires a much greater responsibility for earning trust on the part of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u287	I will take two elements from the questions. Firstly, we are asking whether this is a serious matter. Yes. I fully agree with Oosting that no attempt has been made here to cover matters. However, I also agree with the conclusion reached by the cabinet during the debate in December 2015, namely that there have been at least three serious errors. One of them is the fact that MPs have gone too far in drafting ministers' documents. We discussed this in December 2015. I thought that conclusion was right, and I think that conclusion is right. Then the second element in Mrs Ouwehand's question was: how does that relate to Mr Van der Steur's reply just now? I just answered that. I believe him and I trust him. Given the combination of reactions, I also understand what he is saying here, and then I also trust what he is saying here, namely that it was his intention that those amounts should be included. Something did happen that day, of course. That day, the receipt turned up in the morning. The discussion, since June 2014, was not so much about the question: what exactly does Teven remember? It was about the question: do we know what was transferred? In the meantime, on that Monday morning, it appeared that the amount was 4.7 million. Bitches, as we finally know from Roes' report in Oosting I's report, remembered 7.1 million. Those were the facts on that Monday. So a lot happened that Monday. On Mrs Ouwehand's second point, I think Mr Van der Steur's reply is adequate. That's what I just said. That's why I gave that first reaction on Monday at RTL Late Night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u288	It's going deeper. It is not just a member of parliament, it is a member of parliament of the coalition, it is a member of parliament of power of power of which you cannot just say: we should not have done so. That's a sign you admit you were wrong the moment you got caught. This room won't forget that. I certainly don't. Then the Minister is standing here, or trying to tell us, that the crucial point about that commentary of that letter will not come back. He is trying to convince the Chamber that on that day, which was full of the hectic around what had to happen to those rulers, he did not see anything in the light of his previous misstep to interfere with those parliamentary questions at all. Does the Prime Minister himself think that this is an active and credible interpretation of the confidence that the cabinet enjoys?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u289	Again, that goes back to the two elements I heard in Mrs Ouwehand's first question. The first element is, do you have to do this? The answer is no. That is what we all think, and that was also the conclusion of December 2015. Against this background, what happened in this specific dossier on that Monday morning and Monday evening? Well, he responded Monday morning. He has said that he has just said that it was his intention to show those amounts. How come they didn't come out sooner? Those amounts weren't reported before, so how is that even possible? That's weird. His intention was clear: they must be in. Something will happen that day. That day, the receipt pops up and we know how much it really is. Then there will be questions to the House. On Tuesday, 10 March, the House debate was held and it was decided to set up a committee to examine what actually happened with the obligation to inform the Chamber. This leads to a report stating exactly what Teven remembered, namely Roes's interview report. That's in the report. All in line with what I discussed with Mr Pechtold in the debate, I say that I did not feel entitled to share it at all. We could have done that in December, but not at that time. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u290	I note that the Minister of Security and Justice has acted as a Member of Parliament and as a minister as a caught schoolboy: admitting and making up stories when you're caught. I also note that the Prime Minister facilitates this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u291	I sincerely object to this presentation of the course of events, as if it were just the amount involved. As if we were all breathing relievedly when it turned out that Newshour was right that it was 4.7 million and we said: Now everything can be closed, now we are all done with the discussion. That was not the case. What was it about? The point was that I stood up to Minister Opstelten because he came up with an amount that you felt couldn't be right. Research has been carried out by Mr Van Brummen, who was not allowed to speak with Mr Teeven. There was a remembrance written down, of which they decided together: let us not make use of it. Each time it has been said 'insufficient memory', while there were amounts in black and white that the Prime Minister himself saw. There was a concept in which the sums finally stood, of which the current Minister of Security and Justice, at that time still MP, immediately understood: but this is brilliant. This is quite a bit; very vulnerable. It's about the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u292	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u293	Where we have always felt: we do not get the bottom stone above, we do not get the information. There was no sigh of enlightenment when that 4.7 came up. It was the painful observation that we were finishing something that we could have completed two years earlier and what was not completed, because information was systematically withheld. That was the pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u294	Just so you know, I didn't know those amounts. On Tuesday, during the pause of the debate, following Mr Pechtold's pressing questions, I saw one of the two amounts in the document. I already described that to Oosting. We discussed this in detail in December 2015. I also agree with Mr Segers and Mr Van der Steur that it would have been fine if that question had been answered. I merely suggest that something happened that day, because what seemed to be happening in the morning was that we could work in peace to answer those questions in the Chamber, and in the morning it also came out that the receipt had surfaced. In that, the Minister of Security and Justice saw reason to leave, and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice said: if the Minister leaves, I will leave. That's how it was that day. So that's what that's been all day long. I come to the role of General Affairs, because General Affairs did not spend any time on these parliamentary questions that day, but was only concerned with the settlement of the discovery of the receipt. That was the dynamic of that day. That's what everyone was doing. Then on Tuesday the debate on the House came and it was decided to place everything in the hands of a committee. That became the Oosting Committee and it also published the entire notes by Teeven. Now Mr Segers' question has been another one to Van der Steur, namely: have you been actively trying to get those amounts out? He says: no, look also at the comments I put in and what comments I would have made if I had intended to. That leads to the question to me whether I find the answer sufficient et cetera. The word "appropriate" has been chosen. Yes, I think that answer is adequate. I trust him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u295	Both in the reaction of Mr Zijlstra and in the reaction of the Minister of Security and Justice and of the Prime Minister, it is: well, I paraphrase a little bit of what are you complaining about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u296	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u297	... the amount was known: 4.7. The book was allowed to close...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u298	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u299	...that's about it. A MP's duty is to control the government. Is the right information coming here? Is the Chamber fully and correctly informed? That was the duty that also MP Van der Steur imposed himself. We have just found, with the PvdA Group, that the Chamber has not been adequately, correctly and fully informed, because we received information other than that contained in the draft. Then you can't say: well, well, the amount was known, that's it? No, something really bad happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u300	Then Mr Segers misunderstands me. I also found and find it: if you see this whole file, that's what I'm doing with Van der Steur once, then of course I could have done it that night. It didn't happen. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, there was a very different dynamic going on that day, which had been decided by the committee on Tuesday and that the whole thing had, and rightly so, come out. That whole conversation note by Roes, which I thought I could have shown that Tuesday, although I should have taken a longer break in the debate. He could have just gone out on that Tuesday. We all noticed this in the debate in December 2015. That was a tough debate for a reason. I have rightly said that this was one of the toughest debates in my political career, because I see that I have learned three very difficult lessons, which I still take to heart. That debate also led to a motion of censure from a large part of the Chamber, so we all did not go to Christmas in a pleasant way, in 2015. I do not blame Mr Segers for that, and we have a great deal to reproach ourselves for that. That was the situation in 2015. Back to the question whether Van der Steur acted with the good intentions there. I'm sure you do. I only ask for an understanding of what I might call a mitigating circumstance that there was a second dynamic on that day when that receipt was discovered, which led to the departure of two rulers by the evening. Further work was then carried out on the answers to these parliamentary questions. I agree with Mr Segers: it would have been better if those amounts had been in it. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u301	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u302	We judge no intentions, we judge actions, answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u303	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u304	Questions were asked, the information was available. The MP Van der Steur knew that information was available, but it was removed from the answers and that way they were sent to the Chamber. The Chamber is therefore not fully informed and not properly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u305	But then the key question is: is there a causal relationship between what Van der Steur suggested in his retouches and the answers ultimately sent to the Chamber? Based on Van der Steur's answer and also on how he handled those retouching rings, I just can't see that causal relationship. I ask for attention, not as some kind of condolence, not at all, because I also think that those amounts could have just been in it, if you look at the whole file now. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that there was a mitigating circumstance, the departure of two rulers in one day. General Affairs has been working on this all day, so that AZ has not been able to pay any attention to the conceptual responses. Of course, they were only concerned with the crisis that arose when that receipt appeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u306	In April 2014, a year before Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven quit, the top official Roes personally told the Prime Minister that, according to his reminder, the amount mentioned by Minister Opstelten in the debate, about 2 million, is too low. What did the Prime Minister do with that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u307	Wait a minute. Who told me anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u308	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u309	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u310	No! You can finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u311	In April 2014, a year earlier, after the debate, Gerard Roes told Opstelten, among others, and also the Prime Minister, that the amount is too low in his memory. Did the Prime Minister do anything with that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u312	I was not told that by Mr Roes, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u313	You'd answer that under oath, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u314	Absolutely. Absolutely. I'd like some answers anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u315	Then, at that time, a number of employees, a number of officials, including Minister Opstelten, and also AZ's advisor, knew that it was wrong. How can you continue to make it clear that everyone in the Prime Minister's neighbourhood knew that the amount was probably wrong and that there were memories of the Secretary of State going around at least eight years ago, but that the Prime Minister would never have achieved that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u316	There are no employees at General Affairs who knew the amounts were wrong, and I didn't know either. I only heard on Monday morning, 9 March, when the receipt popped up and when I heard that phone call, that the amount that Nieuwsuur had brought the week before, the 4.7 million, was right. Next, on Tuesday, in the preparation for the debate, I hear that there is a personal note from Mr Roes, which was also the basis of Van Brummen's conclusions in 2014, in which Teeven reconstructs what he remembers. I can see that in the break. Then I see one of the two amounts mentioned in it. We shall therefore decide, also in dialogue with Mr Pechtold, to hand over that piece to the committee which will form itself; that later became the Oosting Committee, which reports on this in December. But in 2015 it is not the case that General Affairs officials were aware of what Mr Teeven remembered or shared with me. That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u317	The Prime Minister's adviser knew many times before that this information was incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u318	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u319	You're gonna deny that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u320	Yeah, under oath, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u321	That's another nice investigation for the next book on the minister. Then let's talk about the self-direction. You can see that there is a correction. It's about Van der Steur's letter. You hear and you read, you know at that moment that information would go to the Chamber in the first draft letter saying that the memories of Bitches appear to be correct. Next, the second draft letter shows that that information is being removed. At some point, the Prime Minister gets that information, too. When did you get that information, and why didn't you intervene at the time? After all, the Chamber constantly asked you to know about this crucial information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u322	I didn't get that information. The concept response was shared with General Affairs on Sunday evening. On Monday morning it was taken into consideration. Next thing you know, the receipt came. Nothing else has been done with it, because General Affairs has been working all day on the settlement of the departure of both directors. Nor have I been informed, and I fully understand that, because there was something else going on that day about those conceptual answers. Those conceptual answers then went out in the evening. So these have become definitive answers. Mr Van der Steur was working on it that morning; that was the subject of the discussion with Mr Van der Steur. Finally, not until Tuesday, I hear that there is a discussion report by Mr Teeven with Mr Roes. But on Sunday, Monday or Tuesday, I did not take note of the first concepts of those answers which could have made me aware of the amounts of, what is it, 4.8 and 2.3.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u323	If on Sunday night the Prime Minister's counsel knows, so does the Prime Minister. That's how it works. If this kind of crucial information, which everyone knows is crucial and that it is the explosive material that the Chamber has been asking for for two years and whining, is present at that level alongside the Prime Minister, then the Prime Minister knows it. In fact, he is responsible, because if it is there, then it is also the responsibility of the Prime Minister. The second is that the Prime Minister did not go to any trouble after that, even when he found out one or two days later, just as the Minister did not, to say to the Chamber: wait a minute, this is bad, it seems to have been known to us and we should have done something. You are going to prove that this evening, in the introduction to your reply, you are simply going to keep the cover-up closed. The truth is not an option. As long as we keep picking on, if very good journalists continue to pick on, there will be information every time you respond to it. Nothing proactive, nothing you are obliged to do and still keep your hands above your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u324	Mr Roemer's assumptions are simply not correct. What's going on? On Sunday nights, AZ gets those conceptual answers. At the end of the day, nothing was done with that at AZ. The moment we could do something with it, official, let alone shared it with me, there was a new crisis, namely around the fact that the receipt appeared. In the course of the day this led to the departure of both rulers. Later that day, new concepts will be sent. There was no reason to do anything with it anymore. On the previous concepts, we also did not comment on V and J. I didn't see them. I didn't see them later. I'm not blaming anyone for that. General Affairs is of course informed about all kinds of things that play in the state service. At that time, General Affairs was only working on one thing, namely the settlement of the receipt. I heard on that Tuesday that there was a conversation report. At the end of the day, in a debate with Mr Pechtold, I decided that this would be put in the hands of the committee. Not that he fully agreed with that, but that was ultimately my conclusion. That has been done and it has been published in the report of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u325	Another quote, then. Then let the Prime Minister say it's not true. Also 2015. "The President of Rutte and his Deputy Secretary-General inform the Ministry that, as far as they are concerned, as far as the Ministry of AZ is concerned, the Chamber never finds out that Roes has spoken to Teeven." Would you also deny that an e-mail was sent to do that? Isn't this a complete attempt to prevent the Chamber from getting crucial information? You're gonna deny it, too. It's getting more fun in here every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u326	I shared all that in the debate in December. Let me see when it was. It was the debate on 8 June. That was about the letter of June the year before, so the letter of June 2014. Three things had to happen. First of all, we had to ensure that the role of the prosecutor would not be mixed with the role of Secretary of State. The second was that General Affairs felt that Van Brummen's report should be made public and the third was to ensure that the spokesmen of the coalition parties were not surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u327	I'm quoting page 92 of the book. The Prime Minister's adviser writes to the Ministry that he may expect problems when the Chamber hears of that conversation. He writes: "That raises the question of what he, Bitches, thinks of it. Seems politically risky." If the Prime Minister's adviser says so, he says so on behalf of the Prime Minister, because he is politically responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u328	It doesn't mean anything to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u329	It doesn't mean anything to you, but it does mean something to me. They're e-mails. So this has been done under the responsibility of the Prime Minister. Here, therefore, it is deliberately advised to keep something under wraps, because it is politically risky. That's what happens under your responsibility. I'm not gonna blame civil servants here. This is your responsibility. Under your responsibility, this e-mail was sent and that's how it happened. Then you shouldn't say, "I didn't know," and they just did something. No, then you take your political responsibility and say: here I was, Prime Minister Rutte, completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u330	I can't post that e-mail, so I'm just gonna have a little official update. I'll get the answer in a minute. It doesn't mean anything to me. I'd like to get back to you. I would like to leave Mr Roemer's conclusions to Mr Roemer. I just want to know what officials are telling me about what they know about it. It doesn't mean anything to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u331	Does the Prime Minister realize that almost no one in the Netherlands believes him anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u332	This is one of Mr Wilders' leading questions. I think I'm being asked to explain what I know and what I don't know. That's what I do here, in all conscience. I have just done so in detail in response to a number of interruptions by Mr Pechtold. Those are the facts. I can't make it any prettier. Then Mr Wilders arrives with polls. Whatever, then I have a few more for Mr Wilders, but I do not think we are getting much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u333	Apparently a sensitive question. I didn't ask a leading question, I didn't mention a poll, I only had one simple question. I repeat once again, I think the people at home would like to hear the answer: do you realize, Prime Minister, that almost no one in the Netherlands believes you anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u334	I think we are having a debate here on the whole issue of Bas Haan's book. I'm trying to answer as best I can. That's what we're talking about right now. I would like to come and talk to Mr Wilders about credibility, then we will have a few more to exchange over the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u335	Again no answer and a you-bake. Usually the Prime Minister does that when he feels uncomfortable. Then let me give him the answer: people trust you less and less. You have a trust problem that is bigger than this room squared. That's because you're sweeping everything under the carpet. As I said in my first term, when some kind of godfather throws everyone around you away, ministers have to resign, Presidents of the Chamber. Now you hold a minister over your head, but it is one great VVD clique that covers everything with the cloak of love. It is unbelievable that you say that you do not know the facts about the amount you received twice but say "I did not receive it myself." That's unbelievable. Again, I also said it to the Minister of Justice, which is a much bigger problem than the vote here in the House of Representatives. Mark Rutte is no longer trusted in the Netherlands, and that's what you have to think about. That's because you're lying and cheating from money to the Greeks, $1,000 to this file, fooling around. You must stop doing so, because you are not only doing harm to your party, but also to politics in the Netherlands. I ask you once again: do you realize that the Netherlands no longer believes you? What do you intend to do about it? Let that be the end of this debate: what are you going to do about it, except for the best solution, namely to resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u336	I think it would be wise to look at the facts in a debate such as today. That's always a good idea. In response to Mr Pechtold's interruption, I outlined a number of things which are also mentioned in the book and why I did not ask Mr Fred Teeven about them. I also said what my reflections were on this in the debate in December 2015. Now we are talking very specifically about the Parliamentary Question Answer of March 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u337	Now Mr Rutte says again that he didn't ask Bitch about that. But to the Oosting Committee he states that he did talk to Teeven about this. I try every time through the content, Mr. Chairman. Twice he tries to say: I never talked to Bitch about it. This is not, therefore, something Mr Haan writes down about the Oosting Committee, you say you are discussing it. In fact, you will be told amounts of which you and the margin of the Council of Ministers with Minister Dijsselbloem will look very carefully at whether it is true. On the spot, you say 'I never spoke to Fred Teeven about these amounts' twice, but you said to the Oosting Committee that you did. What's true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u338	It's both true. I did not talk about the amounts with Mr Teeven. I asked him, when Nieuwsuur would bring the amount that night, if he could still agree with Van Brummen's conclusions. His answer was: yes, I agree; it is a basic amount plus interest. So I didn't ask him about any amounts. I asked him: can you still find yourself in Van Brummen? That's what I thought fit my directing role as Prime Minister. We also discussed this in December 2015 and June 2016. That's what Oosting reports on. There has been no talk of amounts. Here's what I'm asking him. Van Brummen draws a number of conclusions. They are in the June 2014 letter. We've heard of these conclusions. So I ask him, if Nieuwsuur is going to bring that amount that evening: can you still find yourself in Van Brummen's conclusions? I think that at least fits my directional role. I have already said this to Mrs Kuik, as I said in the debate in December 2015, that it might have been wise for me to have less precisely drawn the separation of the role of the District Attorney and the State Secretary. But that's what I told you back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u339	But you wrote the conclusions of Van Brummen yourself! It was written by the cabinet. Mr. Van Brummen wasn't even allowed to talk to the Secretary of State. That is why we had two more independent reports after that, because the Chamber had forced them to do so. But that Van Brummen, that nice guy, he was just sent with a brat in the reeds. He wasn't even allowed to talk to the main character. Meanwhile, there was a note from a DG. Now it's Van Brummen again and so we take another turn, but I'm just trying to get you back on the main road. You have started to count with Dijsselbloem, but how can you count when you say that you have not heard of Bitches? With Dijsselbloem you will release the interest rates that applied at that time for nine or eight years at an amount. Surely you cannot say that you do not know the amount, but that for eight or nine it ultimately comes to 2.3 with an interest rate of 4.7? You can't say that anymore, can you? Then you must have heard those amounts of bitches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u340	That's explained exactly in Oosting. If Nieuwsuur comes up with that unveiling in the evening, I ask Teeven if he can still agree with Van Brummen. He says yes. It is a basic amount plus interest. We have already heard amounts of 1 million, 2 million, etc. called Opstelten. The question I asked myself was whether I could come from somewhere between 1 and 2 million by way of interest in eight or nine years on an amount that is growing towards 5 million. And yes, that turned out to be true. That's possible, because the interest rate was very high during that period. We just did that on the basis of all the rumors about the year before. That's all described in Oosting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u341	But you just said twice that you didn't talk to Bitch about it. At Oosting, you say you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u342	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u343	Well... I'll try through the contents. The overall picture is absolutely not wanting to know what actually happened. Anyone who has worked with Prime Minister Rutte once knows that he wants to know any amount, that he controls everything and that he calls everyone all the time to make sure it's right. So until today we have to insist that Swagerman, a VVD senator, knew that Teeven, now Secretary of State, knew that it was in Opstelten via the dg, that it was known on AZ and that everyone knew except Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u344	It wasn't on AZ, by the way, I just explained that. That is the first point. The second point is that I don't talk to Bitch about amounts. I ask him on that day that Nieuwsuur in the evening is going to make that unveiling whether he can still find himself in Van Brummen. The answer is yes. That's what I thought fit my directing role. Why didn't I talk to him about this whole time? That was also my first answer to Mrs Kuik, and that was for the reason I mentioned her, namely because of the inconsistency that may arise between the role of the prosecutor and that of a member of the cabinet. Didn't I push it too far? I drew conclusions on this in December 2015 when I said I should have been more on the ball. That is one of the three lessons I took in that debate. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u345	My questions are about the way in which the Prime Minister facilitated this deception or not. Colleagues do not believe that the Prime Minister was unaware of the amount sooner. I agree with their reasoning, but isn't it true that the conceptual responses were at the Ministry of General Affairs, the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister insists he hasn't seen those answers. Is that right? Is that the lecture the Prime Minister is holding? I say immediately that this does not make it any better as far as the Party for Animals is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u346	The answer is completely yes. While this debate is taking place, there are a lot of draft answers to all kinds of parliamentary questions also at the Ministry of General Affairs. The chances of them being shared with me are small. That only happens if people think there are politically sensitive issues involved. Was this politically sensitive? Absolutely. So that could have been shared. I understand very well that this did not happen, because it appeared on Monday morning the receipt and General Affairs was only working on one thing on that day, namely the settlement of the receipt and did not deal with those parliamentary questions. Later that day comes the second concept. Nothing else has been done about that and that has ended, because we had the press conference of Fred Teeven and Ivo Opstelten, etc. That's how it turned out. That's how it goes. General Affairs is trying as closely as possible to monitor the unity of government policy. That means if cases need to be reported, I hear them. In this case, I assume that was the Monday, because it was very relevant. In the meantime, however, there was a new fact, on which AZ focused all the energy, namely the settlement of the receipt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u347	So there are two lectures and they are both very unfavourable to the Prime Minister, to his credibility. 1. He really didn't know. 2. He knew, because, as some colleagues rightly pointed out, the Prime Minister is always on top of everything. Let's go for the variant that the Prime Minister didn't know. This means that under his leadership his officials seem to feel 'it is useful if the Prime Minister can say later: but I have not seen it myself'. That means that civil servants think by themselves: mwah, this may be a bit sensitive; we keep it away from him. I think that reading is even worse for the Prime Minister. Given all the other things that have happened and the fact that the cabinet only reacts when facts come out where it no longer comes out, it seems that the Prime Minister has acted as a cover-up manager.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u348	No, this isn't right from a to z. Those answers come in to General Affairs on Sunday night. On Monday morning it will be looked at, but by now everything is obsolete and the whole of AZ is actually working on the question "How are we going to support the Prime Minister in his role in the resolution of this issue?'. This issue ultimately leads to the resignation of the Minister for Security and Justice later that day. He sees in the find of the receipt the reason for this. The Secretary of State says, "If the Minister quits, I quit." That's been running all day, until nightfall. That's how it happened. So AZ didn't share that with me. I fully understand that. If things had turned out differently that day, chances are it was shared with me, but that's how it turned out. So I didn't see those answers that day. I see one of the two amounts, the 4.8, when I look at the discussion note/report on that Tuesday during the debate break. In the end, that report ended up in Oosting I. Oosting with the aim of informing the Chamber, and also the Cabinet, about the information about the whole settlement of the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u349	I'm gonna take it all together. The Prime Minister therefore wants the Chamber to believe that, on the basis of their mission statement, its officials, in order to provide him with the best possible support in dealing with the crisis in which the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice have ended up on this subject, themselves estimate that it is not relevant that the Prime Minister should also receive the draft replies that those same directors would have wanted to send to the Chamber in crisis management?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u350	I can only refer to the previous answer. AZ spent the rest of that day settling the whole issue of finding the receipt. That's how it happened, and that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u351	The Prime Minister portrays the role of AZ a bit like that of an apolitical manager who has to control the unity of government policy on behalf of all of us. However, that is not consistent with what we all know about the way in which AZ was on top of it in order to prevent, in particular, that this is literally what Fred Teeven was involved in the discussion. I want to know what the role of the Prime Minister was in this. In order to be able to answer Mr Roemer's question, it is also necessary to ask officials: what exactly did you send? As if the officials were autonomous inventing that Fred should stay out of the discussion! What has been the role of the Prime Minister? As a political leader, he is directly responsible for the political choices his officials make. Or am I mistaken and they themselves invent that Fred should stay out of the discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u352	No, that is something else; that has to do with one of the three angles from which General Affairs looks at the June letter. I've just outlined them, but I'd like to repeat them. It was three angles. Firstly, ensure that the two rolls are not mixed. Secondly, to ensure that Van Brummen's report is made public. That opinion was not adopted, by the way. The report was finally made available to the Chamber in confidence. Thirdly, ensure that the spokesmen are not surprised. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u353	To that end, it will only go outside if Fred, Fred Teeven, and the annexes, before, during and after the debate, remain out of order. That is about whether or not to publish the later interview report with Roes. Then I keep saying, "That's a big deal." AZ wants to have a discussion at the time, but please keep Fred out of it, because that is obviously politically sensitive. That's not the job of AZ. I say, this should never have happened. Besides, it's not just a civil servant making something up. Regardless of whether it is direct or not, the officials there seem to have a situation in which not the unity of government policy and the importance of the BV Netherlands prevail, but "red Fred'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u354	This is the same misunderstanding that arose in the debate last June with Mrs Van Toorenburg. That passage does not refer to Roes's interview report, but to Van Brummen. General Affairs would like Van Brummen to be made public. That is a very important difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u355	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u356	The interview report's a little different. AZ insists that the Van Brummen report be made public, that the spokesmen be well informed and that the roles of prosecutor and secretary of state do not lead to possible inconsistencies, or to reveal cases that would be extremely sensitive because of the things that may be out of hand as a prosecutor who are dangerous to people. Those were the three angles. The misunderstanding is that Mr Buma thinks it refers to Roes's discussion report. That is not the case. We can only agree to make public, and we insist on that, but it is about Van Brummen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u357	Agreed, but the core for me is AZ's announcement "please, keep Fred out of it." While Fred, regardless of whether he was a district attorney or whatever, wasn't outside. I think this is important because it shows that AZ is not doing its job to get the right information to the Chamber, but that the VVD needs to be saved: Fred is in trouble, Setting up is in trouble and we are helping to protect them. That, while the task was to point out to the Justice Department that the correct information should be sent to the Chamber. We now know what misery has arisen by not doing so. This has been extremely stupid!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u358	I understand the misunderstanding that also occurred in June last year, but it's really a misunderstanding. Once again, it is about Van Brummen and that is important and not about the discussion report. Furthermore, the question is how do you avoid that is always the policy line from General Affairs and myself that these two roles are going to be mixed up. Fred Teeven could then at some point be forced to talk about his role as a prosecutor, perhaps also in a chamber debate, which could lead to the situation where he has to provide information in a political context that may be sensitive and possibly endanger people from matters that Teeven has done as a crime fighter, as a prosecutor in his previous work. That is the consideration. There's no way AZ is trying to keep a VVDer out of the wind. We are consistently trying to pursue a course in which the two roles, those of the Public Prosecutor and those of the Secretary of State, do not get mixed up in debates. That could eventually put Fred Teeven in an impossible position in which he would reveal information that might also be dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u359	If things were to be so pure, then I really wonder how things could have been so completely different under the nose of this Prime Minister. Because then there's someone responsible, and that's the Prime Minister. He has not been responsible here as party leader of the VVD, but as prime minister of our country. This situation is not normal, is ridiculous and should never have come this far. The role of AZ certainly plays later, because that is what the book now knows, because when one meets on 4 March, one of the MPs, Dijkhoff, has the Prime Minister on the phone when he walks in, while the Prime Minister has always said he doesn't know about it. In the meantime, we know that several officials are saying, 'I would like to hear the Prime Minister say that Dijkhoff was indeed speaking to the Prime Minister when the political moment came that the Prime Minister said he was not involved, namely the consultation in the department. Did the Prime Minister know about it at that time, did Dijkhoff go there while he had the Prime Minister on the phone, or are those figments of civil servants? I can tell the Prime Minister that I am beginning to give more faith to the officials than to the politicians, but I am glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u360	This was also discussed in the debate on 16 June. I did not remember the telephone call to which Mr Buma refers. That's what I said back then. The fact is that at that time Mr Dijkhoff was the campaign leader for the state elections and I had him on the phone once or ten times a day, as I now have Tamara van Ark on the phone once or ten times a day. Then it is not about departmental matters, but about how we can make Mr Buma small and ourselves great. It wasn't a coincidence that he was in Security and Justice at the time. He was there because he had an appointment with Mr Opstelten to update him on the campaign. As explained in the debate in December 2015 and in the Oosting report, he asks him to take a look at that press release. During the debate in December 2015, we discussed whether that was wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u361	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u362	If the Prime Minister calls Mrs. Van Ark ten times a day to ask how he can keep the VVD bigger than the CDA, then the problem of party leader Mark Rutte is much bigger than I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u363	The ambitions are great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u364	If you read the whole book, you'll only get angrier and angry. Then you will notice at some point that Mr. Teeven has information that shows that Minister Opstelten lied. From that moment on, you will see through the whole story that everything is being done to prevent anyone from speaking to Mr Bitch. In fact, if it appears that Mr Roes has spoken to Teeven, nobody should know, especially the Chamber, that this has taken place. That's risky. This will be further communicated to the Ministry. If something has to be made public, then there must be agreements that Fred Teeven must always be ignored. Then you can no longer confirm and make it clear that this Prime Minister was all about getting the truth and nothing but the truth out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u365	It is good that we are still discussing this, but we really discussed this in detail in June 2016, following the publication of the report of the Oosting II Committee. I have just outlined the three considerations that applied to me and to General Affairs, concerning the question of how Fred Teeven can be portrayed in a state-law correct manner, including as regards the obligation to inform the Chamber, without becoming inconsistent with his role as the D.A. That is indeed true when it comes to the question of whether there should be a passage in that letter about the conversation that took place with the dg. But it also says that we will not lie in front of it. It is said, however, that how does this relate, can it not be that this leads to questions to Bitches, which he himself has to tell at some point what it is all about, with the result that he is in an impossible position, as regards the role of the D.A. and the Secretary of State. That can also lead to dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u366	This is being dragged in, and the Prime Minister is looking forward to it. Very soon it became clear that at least a year before the Chamber knew that there was nothing wrong with Mr Bitch's memory. They knew that at the Ministry, which is widely measured, but the Prime Minister denies that he has heard the same thing. So many people knew that. That information was deliberately withheld from the Chamber. Every action and every reaction was only meant not to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u367	At least not from General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u368	Also from General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u369	No, not from General Affairs. It says that we do not object if that conversation with the DG is in that letter. It has been said, however, how does that relate to the role of the prosecutor? Isn't that right? I just said this was one of three angles. We discussed this in detail last year on 8 June, and rightly so. That is a consideration that General Affairs has always had and which I have always had. I have already said to Mrs Kuik about asking questions about amounts, which I sometimes thought: if only I had done so, then perhaps we could have avoided all this misery. Well, that's the trade-off. That particular point, which I should not only have sat on the ball more procedurally, but could have asked for more content, I drew that conclusion in December 2015. That is why it was one of the toughest debates I had in my presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u370	We are in a hopeless situation, because nobody believes the Prime Minister when it comes to the two draft answers that went to the Ministry of General Affairs. The Prime Minister doesn't know, no one believes it. Also the strict separation in conversation or communication with Mr.Bitches, no one who believes it. It has been mentioned before: the Prime Minister almost knocks an ex-criminal upside down and immediately calls Fred Teeven. For example, there are many examples in which the credibility of the Prime Minister is at stake. The Prime Minister says there's no strategy to cover things up. There has been a strategy to cover things up. Bas Haan writes that in his book. Then you have to choose as a MP: do you believe the Prime Minister or do you believe in such a book of Bas Haan? Given all the experiences we have, I can only conclude that you have to believe Bas Haan, despite his reporting of anonymous sources. There is only one responsible for the whole situation, for covering up, for this cover-up strategy, but also for appointing Minister Van der Steur, who, as a Member of Parliament, played a key role in informing and souffling the Minister for Security and Justice. Can the Prime Minister reflect on this whole, on his inability, but also on the appointment of Minister Van der Steur? He was already under attack, but was still appointed Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u371	Again. There is an accusation in Mr Bontes's words, as if on that Sunday evening, on Monday or Tuesday, I would have taken note of the conceptual answers which contained the sums that Fred Teeven remembered. The answer is no. Those have been sent to General Affairs and as of Monday morning General Affairs has only been working on the settlement of the receipt with the amount on it, which turned out to be in line with the amount mentioned in Nieuwsuur the week before. That's the answer. Mr Bontes must decide whether he believes the answer. That's not up to me. I can only try to answer the question. Then there's his second question. I asked Ard van der Steur out of conviction for this post and I would do it again. I think he's a very good lawyer, and I found him and I think he's suitable as Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u372	It is really incomprehensible that Prime Minister Ard van der Steur will ask again as Minister of Security and Justice, despite those six horrible debates full of lies and cover-up. Six excuses and then say "I'd ask him again." Where is this Prime Minister's self-reflection? The Prime Minister is truly of God at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u373	In any case, I seem to have convinced Mr Bontes on the previous point, because he will not come back to that. So that's good. Then there is the second point. If Mr Bontes means that Mr Van der Steur is a lily-blank and never makes mistakes, I say: no, I cannot make that happen. The problem is that, if I point one finger at Mr Van der Steur, three point to myself. Also for me I am not lily-white and flawless. Of course we make mistakes. I see Mr Wilders looking very surprised. No, I'm glad Mr Wilders is surprised that I admit that I sometimes make a mistake. That's profit. Especially when you look at the debate in December 2015, you can only see that it was precisely the question of what mistakes have been made here and what lessons we can draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u374	I'll come back to the first. Do I believe the Prime Minister when he says there was no cover-up? No, I don't believe him. Unfortunately, I'd rather believe the investigative journalist Haan. Sorry. Then the second. Yeah, it's unbelievable. That is what we explain to the Netherlands: if you vote for the VVD, you run the risk of getting Ard van der Steur back as Minister of Security and Justice. I'll give it to the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u375	I am very sorry for Mr Van der Steur, because we have heard this before: I would like to re-appoint him. Remember? Twenty-four/seven, power, power, power. Well, it was 24 hours, I think, and then it was over. So such a blessing from the Prime Minister is usually just before the end, but I think it really is witnessing something again, "I would like to appoint him again." I really wonder in what reality, but, Mr President, I was faced with a question about AZ. The PM says the pieces were sent to AZ. He won't deny it anymore. AZ had to admit that on Monday. Who is responsible when crucial information is in the Ministry of General Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u376	The counselor. He shares that with a few people that night. He sends it to a few people. I'm gonna take a look at exactly what it says in the log I got from it. The next day, that piece will be taken in hand. Here it is. The draft replies of Sunday evening 8 March were sent by the Ministry of Security and Justice to the then hearing officer. It is now working elsewhere. That e-mail was also made available to the Oosting Committee. I have not seen the draft answers, nor has the content been discussed with me. So I didn't know that one. The e-mail was shared internally by the counsellor with four colleagues on Sunday evening. It did not come from discussion within General Affairs or content comment on the mail. So there has also been no response from General Affairs to Security and Justice. I double-checked that and asked: what exactly is it, are we absolutely sure? I would like to make one more point: there has indeed been no response from General Affairs. That's almost 100% sure. No response was sent by e-mail to V and J. There has also been no telephone contact, as far as we can tell. Also within AZ the draft answers have not been discussed and there has been no comment on the mail. That is true, because on Monday morning General Affairs went completely into the mode of settling the find of the receipt, which ultimately has far-reaching political consequences for two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u377	General Affairs is, in my view, the most transparent ministry, but I first heard the Prime Minister say that the Council Advisor shared it with four colleagues, so it was discussed with five AZ officials when he said in the second part of his reply that it was not discussed within AZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u378	No, it was shared, so it was forwarded by the counsel to four colleagues. As far as we can see, there has been no official response from General Affairs to V and J. Anyway, I've never seen it, and I've never seen it. The chance seems 100% that it wasn't shared with V and J, at least not by mail. We don't have 100% certainty about telephone contact. It's been checked out, but no one can remember. So it seems that nothing has happened officially. That is also explainable, because General Affairs was working all day that day on the settlement of the find of the receipt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u379	This is hard to believe, isn't it? Five General Affairs officials do discuss, share, talk about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u380	No, it's been forwarded to four others. I'm gonna say it exactly. The draft replies of 8 March were sent by the Ministry of Security and Justice to the former Counsellor and were also made available to Oosting. I've never seen those conceptual answers. I've never been told what it says. That e-mail was sent internally to four colleagues on Sunday night. It almost certainly did not come from discussion within AZ or comment on the content of the e-mail to Security and Justice. In any case, this is true for discussion within In any case, nothing was sent by e-mail, while it probably should have been done by e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u381	But after that, it'll be months. At least five officials in General Affairs have something in their mailbox, at least, and I probably know those people as hard-working people. Those are the conceptual answers. Those five were able to open that message on that Monday, but then we must now go back to the words of the Prime Minister, who apparently did not discuss it with each other and did not discuss it with the Prime Minister. Later, when the answers have been adjusted and it appears that crucial information has been left out, no one is calling the bell when research accumulates after research. I hope that everyone is alert at that moment and thinks: what else is there? Previously, ICTs and archivists were blamed. Once again, five AZ officials have not discussed it with the Prime Minister. We have to believe that, but they did have it in their mailbox. I'm not standing here in a court of law where I have to prove something from a prosecutor, yes, it's about a district attorney. But you almost think of this... How many people work there at the Tower and around it? 60? 5 of them know!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u382	There are about 400 people working at General Affairs, but well, that aside. I understand very well that they did not share it with me, nor did they discuss it with each other, because on that day General Affairs went ahead with the settlement of the find of the receipt. This has led to a number of political consequences. Tuesday was then the Chamber debate, in which it was decided to set up a committee of inquiry. Mr Pechtold referred earlier to the discussion between him and me in December, in which I admitted that he was right and that that piece could have been shared; I should have taken a longer break. That piece is ultimately the basis of the conceptual answers, because those are the amounts Fred Teeven found to remember. One of these amounts also comes back to the debate when I read it so casually. That's the famous "bad eye," as I called it in the debate. It's going to Oosting. It is commissioned to share the entire flow of information from the Cabinet to the Chamber with the Cabinet and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u383	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u384	So I get it from a to z. There is also no blame for an official of General Affairs. I would like to say that explicitly. I fully understand how this turned out. But I didn't see it. I'm not blaming anyone for that. I get that. These are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u385	But there is only one responsible, and that is the political direction. Every time we have this debate, the facts pile up, but that last conclusion, that someone is politically responsible, is not drawn. And we have to rely on the fact that, all these months after that, no attempt has ever been made to include those original answers, which contained more information, on everything that the Chamber wanted to know. There's only one person responsible, and that's you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u386	I respond to that with two things. Firstly, an investigation will be decided on that Tuesday. This ultimately leads to the examination of the Oosting Committee. It would investigate the complete flow of information. We, Mr Pechtold and I, agree that the note, later renamed 'conversation report', will also be handed over to that committee. Later it appears that the interview report is also the basis for the conceptual responses. On Monday, General Affairs was only concerned with the settlement of the find of that receipt and the political consequences. Of course, the responsible minister is always responsible for sending answers to parliamentary questions. It is not the case that the Prime Minister is responsible for every parliamentary question which is answered and whose answer goes to the Chamber. In general, of course, the buck stops here. That's how it works. So I'm not avoiding my responsibility. But it is not the case that General Affairs should explicitly say 'yes' to every answer to a parliamentary question. We can read along. That did not happen this time, because AZ was working on the settlement of the find of the receipt. I myself haven't heard of it and I haven't seen any of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u387	To get an idea of how that went. That's when the investigation started. What did we know? You were in the process of settling the receipt, and those rulers had to resign. I assume that at the time you were told that five of your employees knew at the time and the investigation had started, that was extremely vulnerable. I assume that was something you thought: my goodness, if anyone had looked at it, then at least we could have done something about it then, we would have done something about it. But even now it is pretending to be thought: then the investigation was started, so yes then it is. No, something must have happened at the time. I hope everyone thought at the time: well, but this can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u388	I said earlier this evening that I also agree with Van der Steur that it would have been better if the answer from V and J had included those amounts that night. I agree with Mr Pechtold. The question now is: can I or General Affairs now be blamed for a great deal? Of course, you can always blame me from the point of view of my coordinating duties and the unity of government policy. I take that very much to heart too. But I can see how it went that day. That day at General Affairs was only about the settlement of the find of the receipt. Then there was the debate on Tuesday. It decided to set up a committee of inquiry. Mr Pechtold reminded us that I first had other ideas about the approach. The Chamber convinced me that it had to be placed completely independently, outside the political domain. That was the Easting Commission. All these documents were made available to them. In any case, that was Mr Teeven's discussion report with Mr Roes. And that was the basis for that concept response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u389	I feel like we're about to get to the end of the first term. We're taking off a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u390	We're gonna grab a bite to eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u391	We're overseeing the whole field. And that's exactly what Bas Haan does at the end of the book. I do not know whether the book is only with the Council Advisor or whether it has reached the Prime Minister by now, but at the end of the book he has a reflection. And that is precisely about this point: the relationship between civil servants and the political direction. I suggest we take a step back and look over the whole period. It's painful to see that officials have been transferred. It's painful to see that Roes has been transferred, that Cloo has been transferred, that officials have been sent on course. They were mostly civil servants at V and J. Millions were thrown against it, because the ministry needed to become more politically sensitive. And what is Bas Haan's conclusion: the impulses came consistently from politicians. Fred had to be kept out of the wind, the prestige was important, indeed a certain image had to be kept up. If the Prime Minister oversees all of this, those two or three years behind us now, which are painful, what is his reflection? It is painful for the cabinet, painful for the rulers, the people who have resigned, and it is painful for the Chamber. So what is this Prime Minister's reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u392	It is no different than the reflection I gave during the toughest political debate in my presidency. That is what I started when I answered Mrs Kuik's question. So I also said that in December 2015. That's a bit separate from the question of conversation notices or interview reports. That was one of three things. That is, of course, a big point in itself, but in the broader reflection it may not be the biggest point. There were actually two cases. Is it wise for Members of Parliament to intervene so decisively in replying to documents from ministers to the House of Representatives? The answer to that is no. That's one. The second point concerns me in the first place. I sometimes say, a little flat, I'm the boss of the stuff. Because of the sensitivity of the role of the District Attorney and the Secretary of State, I limited myself to asking questions of procedure. Is it being investigated? Can the former D.A. agree with the conclusions of the investigation? If Nieuwsuur brings it in the evening, there is once again the question: can you still find yourself in Van Brummen's conclusions? I also came to the conclusion that I should have been more on the ball. I think that could have led to two things, although you never know for sure. In the first place, we had found out earlier exactly what Fred Teeven's memory was. That would have helped a lot. The second is that Van Brummen's research, which has been established by Oosting that it was not as solid as we thought, could have been more solid. Those are the reflections. They're touching the Room Cabinet affair and my role as well. I have shared this with the Chamber in detail. I did not convince Mr Segers at the time. He was one of those who supported the motion of censure. We had that to work out. That's how politics works. Those conclusions or lessons from me still stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u393	We have to get to a conclusion at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u394	Certainly, Madam President. I was working on that. If the Prime Minister now says that Van Brummen's investigation could have been better...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u395	Not now: I said that back then. That's what Oosting says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u396	But what was the point? That was the control. 'Cause he wasn't supposed to talk to Bitch. Every time it was the political impulse to keep Bitches out of the wind and not give Van Brummen the full space. In fact, it was already a choice to appoint Van Brummen instead of the Court of Auditors. One more time: step back. This is exactly what Bas Haan asks at the end of the book. How the hell did this go on for two or three years? What's it about? About a deal from a long time ago. And what's his answer? They've hit that street and they've held on. Why? 'Cause they hit that street once. Because they went on and on and didn't step back. They didn't say, boys, now it's done; clean ship. Who was to blame for that? Not the ICTs, not Roes and not Van Brummen. It was the political direction every time. Then what is the responsibility of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u397	So I do not agree with all of Bas Haan's conclusions either. He knows that about me, too. He's a good investigative journalist. Let's be clear about that. He deserves respect for that. However, I do not agree with all his conclusions on this point. I draw the conclusions that I have just drawn and which are also in line with the conclusions of December 2015. So I come to a number of other conclusions. On some points, I come to the same conclusions. On these matters I really come to fundamentally different conclusions, namely that we should not have let ourselves be tempted to think along with pieces of rulers. I myself tried too strictly to separate the roles. That has, of course, worked through the file: the role of the D.A. versus the Secretary of State. That's why I never gave myself a chance to talk to Fred Teeven about those amounts. I am not saying that things would have turned out differently, but upon reflection it might not have come this far. These are the conclusions I drew in December 2015. Again, not for nothing was that the hardest debate of my career. There wasn't a word too much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u398	Finally, I have one question for the boss of the stuff, as he himself calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u399	Yeah, sorry. I call it that sometimes, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u400	He's the one who assigned the stuff. In what way did the Prime Minister in the procedure between the 10th and 20th, in which the new Minister and the new Secretary of State were appointed, consider whether their involvement in the past period would be an obstacle to their functioning?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u401	Of course you weigh everything. Eventually, you look at all the elements that are important in an appointment. In the end, that has led to the decision we have taken and the nomination of this Secretary of State and this Minister to the King. Of course, all elements are weighed. It is impossible to assign a weight to each of the elements exactly two years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u402	We're gonna try anyway. I'm asking about that one element. An important part of this debate is about the involvement of this minister in the dossier. He was involved, for example, in answering the parliamentary questions, because he edited. In what way did the Prime Minister look at that? It is relevant because this minister has been extremely troubled. The Prime Minister is responsible for the ministers and he has appointed them. So I would like to know how he weighed it. I really want him to go into that a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u403	It is impossible to name it exactly two years later looking back. If you're looking for people for positions of responsibility, you weigh all kinds of aspects. Mr Klaver will know that, too. Then, of course, you will also see if there is any particular involvement in the dossier, in a positive or negative sense. You also look at talent, at political and administrative insights in putting the country's interest first over party interests and at a sense of society. It is impossible to weigh these elements afterwards, but of course that aspect has also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u404	When the Minister and the Secretary of State were appointed, the Prime Minister praised their experience. After all, this experience and knowledge of the files have proved to be an obstacle. How does the Prime Minister's knowledge of the present situation reflect on the appointment of this Minister in view of the difficulties that this Minister has encountered in his involvement in the case as a Member of Parliament? I am not talking about the qualities of the rulers and not about the qualities of this minister as a lawyer. Doesn't the Prime Minister think he's also responsible for the precarious situation this minister was brought into?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u405	I have already given that answer to Mr Pechtold or Mr Buma. When I look at Mr Van der Steur, I also see that things have gone wrong. But if I point one finger at Mr Van der Steur, there are three fingers pointing at myself, because things go wrong with me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u406	You really need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u407	It is inevitable that things go wrong when you, as a minister or secretary of state with administrative responsibility, make difficult decisions. The worst thing that the Netherlands can blame a politician, whether he is in opposition or in government, is not that mistakes are made. The biggest reproach you can make is not making decisions. If mistakes are made, you have to correct them. I see that Mr Van der Steur is doing so. When it comes to what is now going on here and what has come out last month, so we also started my answer. I think that it stands well and that he can explain what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u408	Believe me, I'd love to close it, but then I'd like an answer to the question I asked. It is not about the functioning of Mr Van der Steur as a minister. It's about whether he should have been assigned to this place. We are not having this debate today because this minister did not function as a minister or because there were problems with it. We are having this debate precisely because of his involvement as a Member of Parliament. The Prime Minister calls himself the ultimate responsible for the stuff. I ask him how he looks at the appointment and whether it would not have been wiser to make another choice. That really is a fundamentally different question from whether this minister is working properly in his post.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u409	In the final weighing, I still support the appointment of both rulers. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u410	Thank you. That's what we're...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u411	No, Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Van der Steur is still...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u412	Madam President. I have answered all the questions in this debate. I am committed to being accountable to your Chamber. But I see, I see and I feel that my answers do not matter, because many have long made the political judgement. I have answered the questions of conscience. That was less difficult for me than you might think, because over the last year and a half I have been committed to strengthening our rule of law. I fought every day to make the Netherlands safer, along with all the police officers, prosecutors, the parole officers, prison guards and all the people of the IND and the COA. What a wonderful people they are. And that goes equally for my honest, loyal, dedicated and involved staff at the ministry. You can only be proud of that, and I am. The same goes for my friend, Secretary of State Dijkhoff. Our partnership was perfect. But that is why they deserve a minister who enjoys the full confidence of your Chamber. I do not feel that confidence, and for this debate I informed the Prime Minister that I wanted to make my decision on this matter known at the end of this first term. I wanted to have this debate because I wanted to defend myself against unjustified accusations, which are unfounded and not based on facts. I will now offer my resignation to His Majesty the King.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-26-tweedekamer-7.u413	In consultation with all the political groups, I have found that there is no need for the debate to continue.
