ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. RTL News reported a few days ago that the D.A.'s office doesn't collect tens of thousands of fines. Of the 130,000 violations dealt with by the D.A. in 2016, some 44,000 were not prosecuted. One in three fines goes to the trash can. This is not about minor offences, but about serious cases such as illegal possession of weapons, ignoring a restraining order or speeding offences of more than 100 km/h. Here's what I want to ask the Minister. Yesterday, the D.A.'s report came out with roaring texts: all the D.A.'s objectives have been met. My first question to the Minister is why the prosecutor did not write fairly in his annual report rather than in the annexes at the back of the report that a lot of sepots have been done, that a lot of fines have not been collected and that, in short, assholes go free. That would have been the honest story. Do these numbers make sense? If so, what is he going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik addresses the indeed worrying figures that have recently been published. I share Mrs Kuik's analysis that it is undesirable for violations to be dismissed on a large scale. Before I go into the measures that have been taken, it is good that I first go into some of the backgrounds of the figures that have just come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	If it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	Sure. There are three reasons for the large number of sepots. A lot of people can't collect because they don't have any money. Then you're dealing with people with debt issues. In addition, there is a large category of people without permanent residence or who no longer reside in the Netherlands and are often not Dutch. A third reason is that, both on the part of the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the part of the judiciary, there have been periods in which there was too little processing capacity. This problem has been identified before and has also been reported to the Court. That is the question that Mrs Kuik asked: why haven't we heard it before? In the state of criminal justice in 2015, these figures were sent to the Chamber. In the figures for 2016, which the Chamber will get for the summer, it will see this same picture. So there's been a report. I think, however, that it is more important for Mrs Kuik and also for me what we are doing with this data. The reason that the Public Prosecutor's Office has often decided to dismiss is that experience has shown that when a judge is presented with a case that is a number of years old, a judge will often find in such a case that simply due to time, a sentence is no longer in question. That time lag must therefore be limited. Therefore, measures have been taken from 2015, for example the deployment of additional young lawyers under the name "the virtual parquet." This has resulted in many old cases being processed in 2015 and 2016. In the figures for 2016, to which Mrs Kuik refers, you see that peak, just like in the figures for 2015, which went to the Chamber earlier. In addition, measures have been taken to speed up processing. For example, the possibility of paying fines in instalments has been introduced, for the large group of people who do not have any money and who fall under the category "kale chicken" and "not picking." Agreements have also been made between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary in order to be able to deal with larger numbers of these cases in special sessions. In short, I share Mrs Kuik's concern, but measures have now been taken which should lead to improvements in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	First of all, my question was: why hasn't the Annual Report of the Public Prosecutor explicitly stated that so many fines are still being dropped? Secondly, if improvements have been made, what targets should this lead to? Thirdly, it is a good thing that fines are dropped if they cannot be collected. At the same time, this week there was also the news that a lot of people are still being fined, with all the letters of formal notice and major debt problems that this time, because they have a car in the barn that is not driving or that has a license plate for a car that is already in the scrap heap. They're being chased by the CJIB for years to come. Isn't double standards here? Let's go big assholes and stay small, low-hanging fruit of people we do know about living and staying in, chasing for days?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	The question was why it was not reported in the annual report. That's because it's reported to the Chamber in the annual Factsheet Criminal Chain. This has already been done over the past year and is also happening this year. There's no reason to report on it twice. The numbers are worrying and there's no reason not to show them. But they're also shown. Measures have been taken. There are no targets attached to this, but I am happy to continue to inform the Chamber about its progress. Mrs. Kuik came up with another example, which I cannot interpret directly. Where people work, I can't guarantee that nothing ever goes wrong. People work at the Public Prosecutor's Office and people work in justice. That's where things go wrong. I can make sure that we take action when things go wrong, because I agree that this delay is very undesirable. We have done so, for example by introducing payment in instalments, by using additional capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office and by making agreements between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. In this way, the problem must be reduced. I will also continue to inform the Chamber of progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	I have to finish. I cannot entirely escape the impression that the prosecution is not fully transparent about the fact that a large number of fines are being dropped. You can't be jubilant about the results you've booked, unless you're also very open and transparent about what you haven't achieved, and not just in your attachments. Nor can I completely escape the impression that a big boy who has committed major crimes is easily avoiding his punishment and his fine. This is not the case with the idiot, I say it with all the love that his car has left unused in the barn and gets a warning on it, leading to serious debt problems. I have also put questions to the House. I would like a very careful and comprehensive answer to that. It seems to me that we are moving towards concrete targets and that this issue is being highlighted on the formation table. Otherwise, it accumulates year by year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	In dealing with criminal law and at all in dealing with the functioning of the rule of law, it is very important to name the facts. Mrs Kuik was right when she mentioned the fact that the large number of sepots is undesirable. Measures have also been taken against this. But then it is said that there is no publicity, whereas the Court has just had the figures for 2015, measures have been taken on this basis and the Court also gets the figures for 2016. I therefore believe that there has been an incorrect link. I already indicated that mistakes are made wherever people work, in the Lower House, in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the police. That's always gonna be the case. Then we can expect the responsible people, including me, to take action. But I think it is wrong to suggest that the D.A. is messing around in all kinds of areas. In doing so, you are failing all the people who are doing a great deal of work there to put criminals behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	Last week we received the information that people who drive uninsured are sometimes chased with road tickets, even though it is clear that the cars we are talking about are long gone. Today we hear information that indicates that people who commit serious traffic offences sometimes get away with it. How does the Minister take this into account in the approach of "traffic shutters" - I hope you will forgive me if I use this word - which he always advocates? Would it not be more logical for us to take into account the seriousness of these offences in the prioritisation of such cases? So we're putting more emphasis on tackling people who commit serious speeding offences and perhaps less on tackling people who are fined for uninsured driving for the umpteenth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Prioritisation is taking place in the prosecution. This is a very different matter, but I would like to answer Mr Grothuizen's question. Every four years, prioritisation in the deployment of police and public prosecutors is agreed with the Chamber. Traffic crime is part of that. It is quite logical, and I agree with that line too, that heavier offences or even offences are being tackled more firmly than minor offences. In the case of what Mrs. Kuiken was talking about, violations have been committed. That's serious enough. It is wrong and it is not allowed, but this is not a crime. Those offences are therefore dealt with differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	These are serious offences such as ignoring a restraining order, massive speeding violations or convictions for illegal possession of weapons, and one in three people gets away with it. That share went up until last year. The Public Prosecutor himself says that this has to do with considerable delays, read: the cuts. It also has to do with insufficient court capacity. I do not hear the Minister solving these problems today, but I would like a response to that. I would also like to ask the Minister what the fact that one in three people without punishment gets away with such offences does with the confidence of people in the rule of law and in the system we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	I have already said that the number of people talking about Mr Van Nispen is an undesirable situation and that measures have therefore been taken, but that these figures are also explained by the fact that they are two years of catching up with additional people. That brings me straight to the other point raised by Mr Van Nispen, namely whether this has anything to do with the money available. An investigation has been carried out, led by Mr De Jong, on the necessary finances for the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's also shared with the Room. The picture from that is that there can be work with the money that is now available. In the meantime, Mr Van Nispen knows that my standard response to requests for more money is being discussed at the formation table at the moment, and that in a democracy every party is free to try to sit at that formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, Mr President, I have not had an answer to my question as to what the Minister thinks it does with the confidence of people when one in three people gets away without punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	Of course, but I also ask Mr Van Nispen for precision. I said that the number one in three is strongly coloured by the fact that it's about years of catching up. It also helps that confidence when the Chamber and I name the facts as they are. The fact is that you cannot make one in three structuralally, but you must also honestly say that these figures relate to two years in which the deployment of additional capacity is lagging behind and that measures have now been taken, such as payment in instalments. I assume this appeals to Mr Van Nispen. It has to do with people with debt problems. In this way, for example, we must ensure that a greater proportion of these fines are paid in the future, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	I can imagine Mr Van Nispen's annoyance, because we have often stood here and the cabinet always said: no, it is not about capacity, we can actually handle everything. So it doesn't seem that way. My question follows on from the other questions. There have been a number of crimes of which a victim is not directly identifiable. How have the victims been dealt with? For example, if someone has been fined who has misjudged a restraining order, has there been sufficient attention for the victims? My question is therefore specific: where victimisation has occurred, how has the victim been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	Here too, it is important that these offences are committed. Wrong, criminal, that's why a sanction is imposed, but it's not about crimes. I cannot say by heart that specific attention has been paid to the situation of victims. I think that attention is very important, and that is how it is regulated by law. I cannot judge whether, in these specific cases, I repeat that these are offences, serious enough, even additional information has gone to the victim, if there is a victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you.
