ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now turn to Mrs Becker's question, on behalf of the VVD, to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media about the message "Child illegally to private school." I call Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every child with a disability, whether autism, physical disability or gift, deserves an appropriate place in education, a place that does justice to what a student can and allows his or her talents to flourish. The idea of appropriate education is to organise this place not from The Hague but within the region, close to the children concerned. The VVD thinks this is a good idea, but we are concerned about the implementation in practice. We still speak too many parents who worry because their child falls between ship and ship, without a good place at a school. We still speak too many teachers who experience more workload, who want to do justice to the children who need special attention, but lack extra hands in the classroom. The General Court also recently called the bell. It is not clear whether the money for appropriate education is being well spent. And now this weekend we read in the newspaper that there are even schools and partnerships that illegally transfer the money intended for appropriate education to private schools. That can't be true. I therefore ask the Minister: is it true that some schools and partnerships are channeling money to private institutions? Is it true that they do not comply with the rules and their duty of care? On what scale is this actually happening? How come this wasn't known to the Ministry before? What does this say about surveillance? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that a suitable place for every child means that there is a place in a public school in the region and that the partnerships should therefore, together with the schools, ensure that every student gets that place, within the system and not outside? How will the Minister see to that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mrs Becker for the questions she has asked on this subject, which has indeed been raised in the media this weekend, both in the daily newspaper and in television programme De Monitor. We share Mrs Becker's point of view, namely that every child has the right to a suitable place. This is also laid down in the legislation. If schools receive funding for their pupils, they also have a duty of care. Then, with the partnership they belong to, they must also ensure that there is an appropriate offer for students. The news that anonymized this weekend because we don't know which schools and which collaboration it's about came out, indicates that it doesn't succeed everywhere to provide an appropriate offer. The situation described as anonymised is not known at the inspection. If the inspection is aware of such situations, in which pupils do not receive the offer in the school itself but are placed at private schools and where the money is also paid to them, then the inspection is in the interest of the child in talks with the school. Then the school is asked intrusively: where is it stuck and what are the deficits you are running into, which means you cannot take care of the appropriate offer? Then there is a clear task, the task of ensuring that it is done, because that is what funding is aimed at. That is also the way we want our children to be educated. We also want to monitor the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for the answers. Glad to hear that he shares the starting point that it is intended that every child should have a suitable place in our public education. It is also a good thing that he says that he will make sure that the inspection talks with schools if that does not happen, but that is based on signals. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is nevertheless a more fundamental question about the monitoring of appropriate education, particularly in relation to the partnerships. We still hear very often that these partnerships are mainly guided by the financial wishes of the school authorities, who together form the management of the partnership and supervise themselves, in the distribution of the money for appropriate education. That's a bit like the butcher who approves his own meat, and that's an amount of 2.4 billion. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that the question of how to find a suitable place for each child in the region should become much more central to these partnerships? This should not only be a place where the money is distributed, but also a place where that conversation is held. We have said: make sure that there is genuinely independent supervision. Fortunately, this has been incorporated into the coalition agreement. Can the Minister indicate at what time that independent supervision is actually being carried out? Can the Minister also go straight to the legal power of perseverance? That could help the partnerships, namely to prevent a child from getting between shore and ship because every school actually says: I cannot place this child. The point is that there is a perseverance to say: we are going to arrange that place. That is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. When can we see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Indeed, a number of agreements have been made in the coalition agreement which directly or indirectly affect the situations described here. We need to look closely at where the money for appropriate education remains when there are questions about it. That will be investigated. What I find very important in this situation is that there is a piece of openness, including from schools and partnerships, at those times when they are unable to provide the care that the child, the student, is entitled to. Situations like the ones that came out last weekend are situations we don't know, in which even the partnership just stays under the radar and doesn't make it clear that there is a problem. At the moment when you put a problem on the table, you will not be dealt with directly, but then we will be able to see what is needed to ensure that one can do what one is simply legally obliged to do. There is a duty of care and they have to provide cover for all pupils, so that no pupil is really excluded. That is the call I would like to make to the schools, to the partnerships, but also to the parents: put it on the table, make it negotiable. Then we know what we are talking about and we can work together to ensure that whatever funding is based on is done, namely that there is a good, appropriate and comprehensive offer in the region for the students who need the extra care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is good to hear that the Minister makes this appeal to the schools and to the partnerships: be open where it is not possible, make sure with each other to realize that appropriate place and therefore do not stay under the radar. I think it would be a good thing that this call should not only be made here in this house, but also that the inspection should be actively involved with these partnerships. Can I conclude that the Minister is willing to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	We have a very good inspection in the Netherlands, which has indeed been instructed to do so under the legislation and to monitor the quality of education. The inspection will also discuss with schools and partnerships. Once again, this transparency applies. In fact, we note that the annual reports do not mention situations that have occurred, with pupils who have been placed outside the school. Schools are obliged to report this properly in the annual reports and also in the discussions with the inspection. Only then can we work with each other on a good cover offer. That is what we all want, of course, because in the end it is about those children. We want children not to fall between the shore and the ship and that there is a good education offer for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	I wholeheartedly share the Minister's last words, because in the end it is about the right of children to learn, I would like to tell him. I would like to ask the Minister: does not the fact that these kinds of constructions are sought really mean that we can learn a great deal from the approach in private education within regular, public funded education? Is the Minister prepared to look into this for the benefit of children's learning rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	At a time when it is clear what situations this is about, we can indeed see with each other what it is stuck on. A situation was described of a young pupil who was indeed better qualified at that private school and could at that time receive better care than the school and the partnership to which he belonged and where his parents had also registered him could implement. We also intend to do so in the Chamber, because it is already communicated with it to prepare legislation. If such situations arise, if at some point it is simply not possible to offer a student at a school or in a partnership that is necessary, this legislation will create the possibility of placing such a student temporarily at a private school. That may be up to one year, that is the intention. In that year, the partnership and the school will have to work hard to overcome the shortcomings that exist and to ensure that appropriate offers are made. This legislation is in preparation and will reach the Chamber in due course. Then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	Last weekend it was also announced that the number of students going to special education is increasing again. According to the Algemeen Dagblad, about 800 children attend special education more than last year. I'd like to ask the Minister if he recognizes those signals. The article says that some schools might hold students at a regular school for a little too long, so that those students actually go to special education too late. Does the Minister recognize this, too? What can he do in the short term to ensure that as many children as possible go to ordinary schools, together with the appropriate support they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	The notification referred to shall contain provisional figures. I am reluctant to comment on the content of provisional figures. We know that in three or four weeks the final figures will be announced. Then we have a real picture of what's going on there. As soon as those figures have reached me, we will, of course, analyse them and comment on them and send them to the Chamber as soon as possible. I suggest that we have the debate then. It is really very difficult to draw conclusions on the basis of temporary figures, it is happening now; it is already flying from all sides, while we all know that in those last few weeks there is sometimes a lot of information that might make the picture different. In that respect, Madam President, I would like to say that I would like to be patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	Apart from the figures, you can see on the one hand that expensive private schools with tax money are subsidised because it does not succeed in finding a good place for children with disabilities. On the other hand, more and more children end up in special primary education after a period of appropriate education and sometimes depressed. Shouldn't the conclusion be that in the coming years we should be fully committed to those schools for special primary education, which are so very important? Should the Minister intend to say 'that is very expensive', I remember 1.4 billion which is now reserved for foreign shareholders. So I'd like to think along with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	I thank Mr Kwint for giving answers to questions that had not even reached me. That's a quick way to debate it. Let it go for the numbers. How many kids are in private schools? DUO does not keep those figures, but we do have figures from the inspection that are collected on the basis of her observation. On the basis of these figures, it is concluded that a number of hundreds of pupils are involved. There is indeed a growth in relation to the figures we have seen from October 2015 to October 2016. We're still waiting for the latest figures. But compared to those 1.5 billion children who go to primary education and who are also divided into schools for special primary education, it is calculated for me; I did not do it myself, though I could have done it 0.04%. So it's also good to keep an eye on that affair. This is without prejudice to what I agree with Mr Kwint and I think that we should look very closely at how this is going to be done in practice. How is appropriate education given? What are the schools running into? What is the position of schools for special primary education, which, as far as I am concerned, still have and will continue to have a very important function in our system, given the problems that pupils sometimes come into the schools with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you!
