ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, as well as those following this sitting in a different way. In particular, I welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the European Parliament. They are among us today and will take part in the debate. Members of the European Parliament present may take the floor. This must be an input of information. However, the Dutch Members of the European Parliament are not allowed to interfere with the members of the House of Representatives, the governors and the prime minister. Speaking time has been fixed. The Prime Minister is very pleased with that. We have nineteen speakers. I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. This week we saw on Teletekst a message with the headline "The Netherlands deserves to export." The goods produced or processed in the Netherlands yield a total of EUR 200 billion. These are not only euros, but also jobs, for example in our port in Rotterdam. We must be very careful about this, because the Netherlands is heavily dependent on foreign trade for its prosperity and, consequently, on the European Union. However, the Netherlands is also a relatively small country. We have 17 million inhabitants. Of the more than 500 million inhabitants of the European Union, that is 3.5%. The Netherlands is stronger in a European Union with 500 million inhabitants than alone. Without the European Union, the blows of migration and globalisation would come harder. The European Union is in severe weather. The United Kingdom is leaving the Union. The European Union is struggling with large immigration flows and the United States seems to be pulling their hands off Europe and becoming more protectionist. For the VVD, Europe is not a means, it is an end. We need to be pragmatic about that. So no competition between people who try to make the European Union clap and people who say that more Europe is the solution to every problem. That won't do us any good. On the contrary, we must strengthen European cooperation and not weaken it. Only when this feeling is felt by people will support the European Union increase again. We must do this by working together on the major cross-border problems that affect people, such as migration and security, and by promoting trade. Trade requires open internal borders so that our lorries can quickly cross the border. Otherwise the food will spoil and the flowers will rot. Open European internal borders are only possible if the European Union has its external borders under control. The European Union has shown that it can do so, for example with the Turkey deal, which has reduced migration across the Aegean Sea; less drowning and fewer people. That's good work from the Prime Minister. We must do the same in the Mediterranean. We must make agreements with Africa to also limit migration from there. We must also move forward with the internal market, not only with the digital single market, but also with the market for services. It is still difficult for Dutch people to get to work in France or Germany, because there are many demands for work. If we do that, it could bring hundreds of billions more. Europe must do that: solve problems and create new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	Those are nice closing sentences: solving problems and taking up new opportunities. We had the European Commission's migration report yesterday. It contains the targets that Commissioner Timmermans is so angry about, as Member States are lagging behind. There are also targets for the Netherlands: 3,800 for Greece and 2,100 for Italy. We are scandalously behind. We've done 500 for Italy...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	... and 1,100 for Greece. Does the VVD also think that if we take the measure of targets and targets and promises to take refugees from Greece and Italy, we should also honour our promises ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	Yeah, if we're gonna make a deal, we're gonna have to do it. This applies to all countries, including the Netherlands. We need to get a good look at what numbers they are. The Prime Minister has said something about this before. Maybe we should take some off that we're already catching. But it is as Mr Voordewind says: a deal is a deal. That is the case here, and that is the case with a lot of other matters which I shall be discussing in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	Is he going to point that out to his own cabinet? We've talked to the Secretary of State before. He puts it very closely and says: we are already in a good position compared to other countries. But is the VVD also willing to actually say to its government: those figures are committed? People are now in the mud in Greece. Now let's set a good example and get these people out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	I already told you, appointment's a deal. The Secretary of State responds to this and I assume that the Prime Minister will respond to it in a moment. Even more important than sharing is closing the external borders. That is the real problem. That must also be done with Africa now. What Europe should not do above all is to produce all kinds of great and wide-ranging reports on the future of the European Union. This is in danger of happening towards the celebration of 60 years of the Treaty of Rome. Even if such visions of more Europe are not translated into practice, they are still harmful. The picture is, in fact, that Europe is going on and on. So try to stop that. In Malta, apparently, last Friday, the proposal to swear allegiance to the European Union was discussed. I don't know if that's going to happen, but I'm getting e-mails asking what that means. A report on the European logo on sports shirts was discussed in the European Parliament last week. I ask the MEPs here: do you really have nothing better to do? I know they're not supposed to interrupt, but I'm just gonna say it anyway. The VVD is also against interference with pensions, care, housing, spatial planning, taxes and benefits. That's all the fuss that people aren't waiting for. What Europe needs to do is to comply with commitments, such as the Growth and Stability Pact. President Juncker should not say: I am a political Commission; France is France, and they are getting away with it. In 22 of the 28 Member States, people have more confidence in the institutions of the European Union than in their own institutions. That's not bad for some countries either, given their history. So what we should not do is transfer these powers to Brussels. No, we should try to strengthen those countries. I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He would draw attention in the General Affairs Council to the question of how we make Member States stronger ourselves. What has been agreed on in concrete terms? I would like to thank the Minister for raising this issue, but what does that mean? I'll get to the Brexit. It is not pleasant for the Netherlands for a number of reasons. The first reason is geopolitics. We felt well at home in the triangle France, Germany, England. However, England is leaving now. Also from the point of view that we are doing a lot of business with the British, it is annoying that they are leaving. But what will the Netherlands do in the negotiations? I think the Netherlands has a number of dilemmas. On the one hand, we want to continue to negotiate with the English, the British, and on the other hand, too soft a Brexit is not good either. Other countries may then be tempted to leave as well. The Netherlands is greatly benefiting from the internal market. Another dilemma has to do with the negotiations on the separation and the future with the British. On the one hand, we want a good divorce. There's a $60 billion bill on the table. If that problem isn't solved, then who pays the bill? On the other hand, we want good relations with the British in the future. How's it gonna happen? Are we going to settle the divorce first, with the risk that there will be no new trade agreement? I'd like to get a response from the Cabinet on this point. Another point that we have raised before is the position of Europeans in the United Kingdom and of British people in Europe. We think it's okay if we take care of that quickly. The people who live in the United Kingdom need security. At the Brexit is also the question of who our allies are. There may be countries that say that they do not deal so much with the British, so a bad Brexit deal can't hurt. But who are our allies to come to a Brexit in which we continue to act? It is obvious to look at Denmark and the Baltic States, but I am also curious to see what the Minister thinks of them. Nor does the British attitude help to achieve a good deal. We were in Britain with a number of colleagues this week. The British have an attitude in the vein of: we are going to benefit economically greatly from the Brexit. They also have some kind of self-confidence. It was actually a wonderful combination of Alice in Wonderland and Keeping up appearances. I also like to get a reaction to that. As I said, we found ourselves geopolitically in a pleasant triangle. The British are dropping out now. My question to the cabinet is who will become our new allies. Are we going to form occasional coalitions? How does the Cabinet see this? The cabinet writes about this in the letter, but how are we going to do this in concrete terms? Now that the British are leaving, it is also important that we get to the decision-making process in Brussels in good time. That's all the more important. Can the Minister look into the timeliness of influencing decision-making and the effectiveness of the Netherlands in that regard? I am therefore asking for a review of the official organisation and also of the minister himself: are we in Brussels in good time to influence the decision-making process and are we doing so effectively? This is an excellent opportunity to look at it again. We in the House of Representatives must also work on our own information position. Mr Maij of the Labour Party and I are working on a Europe law. We are trying to present them here before the election recess, with as much support as possible from colleagues, in order to strengthen our own information position. I told you, the cabinet needs to get in touch with the allies, but I'm also looking at the President of our Chamber. We have a great deal of cooperation with our neighbouring countries Belgium and Germany, such as roads going from one country to another, working across borders and health care across borders. My question to the President of our Parliament is whether it is not a good idea to organise a parliamentary day with Belgium and one with Germany, so that we can discuss cross-border issues together with the Belgian Parliament and the German Parliament. That may be for you or for your successor or, if you are, for you again. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	Madam President. I would like to thank you for allowing me, as a former Member of the European Parliament, to be back for a while, just like my colleagues in the European Parliament. It is good to debate here, because this is a house with a great history and authority. National parliaments can play an important role in Europe, also in bringing Europe more into the hearts of the citizens. I recently read an interesting interview or article in the Algemeen Dagblad, in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave his ideas on how Europe might work better. I was asked for a response. I didn't give it, because we have the debate here. I saw that colleagues were also very acidic, because the Minister wanted to limit the size of the European Parliament. In my view, Mr Tang of the Labour Party wanted to reduce the Foreign Minister. That's what it said: it had to be limited, too. Fortunately, I can see that this has not been done; it has not been done. Above all, we must be sensible. Resolutions will be put to the vote next week in Strasbourg. One of these resolutions states that budgetary law must be taken away from the Member States and that there must be a European Minister for Finance who in fact determines what Member States can or cannot spend. That is unacceptable, because then you will find Member States at the heart of their democratic process, namely in drawing up the budget and levying taxes. So that's a dangerous direction. Some Members said: it is just a resolution. No, a resolution is a political statement. The VVD will therefore not be able to support that resolution. What is important is that Europe does what Europe should be good at. Then I come to refugee policy. It is almost impossible to do that alone as a Member State, no matter how big you are. I am grateful that there is a Turkey deal that has greatly reduced the number of refugees who have come to Europe. This means that many fewer people have died too, and every refugee who dies is a terrible fact. It will have to be carefully considered, and this is also happening in order to make such a deal with North Africa, even with the unstable Libya or with the surrounding countries of Libya. If you're gonna make deals like this, you're gonna have to use the carrot and the stick. This means that countries that take back their own nationals must be rewarded, and countries that do not must be punished. It's as simple as that. It's not funny, but it has to be done. The European Union can play a vital role in this. We have talked about the national parliaments before. You remember that in the discussions with Mr Cameron, then Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, it was actually agreed that the parliaments of the Member States would be given a red card. This meant that if a number of Member States did not like a European law, it would not be there either. Unfortunately, the fact that the deal did not go through, that Britain chose the Brexit, is also the red card of the table. But perhaps, as European parliamentarians, let us revive that idea ourselves. I'll close up in a minute. It is about matters that we must do together, but above all together with the United States. President Trump walks through a porcelain cabinet, but that does not mean that we must now put our relations with the United States on a low level. The United States is a healthy democracy, in which both courts and politics can restrict a president. So let us work together, especially in the area of NATO. We need to invest more. European defence is also NATO defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. There is a new and unpredictable world order, with Trump as president in the United States and the Brexit ahead. We see leaders building walls and blowing up bridges. It is so easy to destroy something, especially with populist talk, to undermine the trust of people and countries and to call anyone who has a different opinion for liar. I want to fight that world and that politics. Alternative facts, flexible solidarity: they are terms that are deliberately undermining. It's time to break down walls and build bridges. The Netherlands is moving towards a stable environment, in which we can build on our neighbours and our neighbours, just as they can on us. It is time to leave the wait-and-see attitude behind us and to opt with conviction for a strong Netherlands in a strong and democratic Europe. In recent days we have been with a number of colleagues in Britain and Ireland. Two things became clear there. That Brexit is coming. To anyone here who thinks this is not happening, I say: really, he's going to get there, but in such a way that it's going to plunge the population, the economy and the country into uncertainty. Of course it sounds good in the campaign, such a Brexit, but it is really political playing over the backs of the voters. Moreover, this is going to cost us a great deal of energy and time within the Union, which we can spend much better on issues that matter to people in Europe: jobs, security, migration and the environment. How does the government prepare for the Brexit and what timeline does it see ahead? When and how will the Dutch interests be defended and how will the government involve us as a national parliament? Mr Mulder already referred to the interests of Dutch citizens and other EU citizens living in the United Kingdom and vice versa. The PvdA considers it important that European cooperation is also there for the Netherlands, to protect peace, prosperity and security and to be economically sound. We need resources to finance our welfare state, which we all cherish. That is why European cooperation is important: for peace, for security and for prosperity. At the same time, European cooperation must be better able to achieve this. Unrighteousness in the system needs to be adjusted. The European internal market is not just for business. It must be there for the people of Europe. Cooperation must serve countries and the inhabitants of the Netherlands and the other Member States. This means that Europe must be more social and democratic. Workers must be more than just a cost to businesses, which must be as low as possible. The fact that workers from other Member States can work far below Dutch labour costs causes exploitation and unfair competition. That's not good for those workers, and it's not good for us. With Minister Asscher, we took up the sham constructions, but we also really advocate fair labour migration: equal pay for equal work in the same place. We need to get this over with, and we need to get this over with as soon as possible. How does the government work on that? What is the timetable for really tackling the Detaching Directive? Focusing on the market and unfair competition with cheap labour puts the support for European cooperation under pressure, whereas we need a more social wind in Europe. We also need that more social wind in the issue of migration. In 1997 I first visited refugee camps in Sudan, which is now South Sudan, and in Somalia. Money and political will were lacking there to put an end to conflicts and to be able to deal with people properly. Refugees lived there and still live in refugee camps for years. Fortunately, the international community, including the Netherlands and Europe, was able to make a financial contribution to meet the needs. But 20 years later, we see the same thing happening on European territory. We're seeing the same horrible images. I find it heartbreaking and embarrassing that this is happening so close. Now, on this rich continent, there seems to be a lack of political will and money to at least take on people decently and at least to overcome a decent roof. I can see the horror that the images of the Greek islands and the Balkans will still be there in a few years' time. We need a common European agenda on migration, one in which solidarity prevails. Solidarity is not a swear word. We must give people in need an honest and helping hand, a European hand. All Member States should contribute to the reception of refugees. Countries that avoid their responsibilities can't just get away with it. For example, the PvdA proposes cutting these countries short on structural funds. How does the government see that? The Netherlands must take the lead in working with benevolent Member States. We must also work together to improve the return of people who have no right of residence or protection in the European Union. The PvdA is in principle positive about the migration compacts. These priority areas include saving lives at sea, returning irregular migrants and prospects in the region, both in the short and long term. However, we believe that the conditions for financial support to third countries should not only be linked to the reduction or halting of migration. Good governance and respect for the rule of law and human rights must also be addressed. In addition, the compacts must, of course, comply with all the international human rights conventions in force. The same applies to the agreements currently being prepared with Libya, for example. How's the government in this? We are connected with the European Member States, including the candidate countries in the Balkans, such as Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia. People in those countries deserve the same freedom and progress. This also applies to Turkey, a country on which we often debate, but which, unfortunately, is only declining. The European Union is a value community. We have like-minded democracies. We are trying to support each other in a spirit of solidarity for greater prosperity and security. It's been a long time. It is important that the European Union continues to do so and works towards improvements. Democracy is not static. Democratisation is a verb. That takes hard work. In the area of the rule of law and democracy, all Member States should comply with the core values of the European Union. These core values were endorsed by all Member States when they joined the European Union. In fact, they used to write it. The rule of law and democracy is not an obligation for Brussels. It is an obligation to each other and to the citizens of Europe. That is why we are also calling for a better mechanism to address Member States on violations of the rule of law and fundamental rights, as we see now in countries such as Hungary and Poland. Free press and free justice are the foundations of our rule of law. Concepts such as flexible solidarity undermine those common values. "What you don't want to happen to you doesn't seem to be transformed into "What you want to happen to you, don't give it to anyone else." This is not a value that we in Europe have to share. The PvdA considers European cooperation important for the Netherlands in order to protect peace, prosperity and security and to generate economic growth. But they don't come by themselves. We must work hard on that. We shouldn't hesitate to raise problems. Popular talk and the sowing of division doesn't help. We must reach out to each other to work towards a Netherlands and a Europe in which everyone can come to their own. Everyone deserves a decent life in freedom and security, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	A fair conclusion by Mrs Maij on the emerging movements and the warning that we must be vigilant about this. Now the Foreign Minister, Mr Koenders, has said that precisely because of the rise of Mr Trump, for example, the halving of the European Parliament is one of the measures that we can respond to. That interferes with far too many things, we get way too many rules on us and the European Parliament should concentrate on key issues. How's Mrs. Maij in this? Is it also in favour of halving the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	I have the impression that Mr Monasch summarizes very briefly the open letter from the Foreign Minister. In my view, there is no causal link between Mr Trump's statements and Mr Monasch's proposal. I think it is important that this letter shows that the Minister is a pro-European minister, that he is a minister who supports European cooperation, but that he does not hesitate to look at ways of improving that cooperation. He's making suggestions for that, too. I think he deserves a compliment for that and not such an easy summary of what he has written.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	It's not my summary, it's the summary that came out in the media. My comment is not intended to harm the Minister, but I think the letter has been clearly written in the context of the changing wind. If she does not like it, Mrs Maij can put this aside. However, the proposals were made in that light. My specific question is then whether Mrs Maij supports the proposal to halve the European Parliament as Minister Koenders did in his letter to the daily newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	In this letter, Minister Koenders writes a lot about pro-European cooperation, about how Europe should better take care of its citizens. One of the ideas he is putting forward is to see whether the people's representatives in Europe could do better. To sum up Mr Koender's story in this way alone, I find it too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u16	I'm going to continue on this subject. We have seen the five-president plan under which the name of party colleague Dijsselbloem is underneath, and we have read a very innovative article by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, also a fellow party member, who actually says that we should return to the core objectives. What line does the Labour Party's group stand for in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u17	I would almost say that Mr Voordewind has not listened to my plea in the last eight minutes. I find this a strange question, if I may say so. Perhaps Mr Voordewind could specify a little more precisely what he wants to hear?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u18	I'll specify. The five-president plan states that a genuine economic union, a financial union, a budgetary union, a political union, a European defence army, European pensions, etc. must be established. Is that the line advocated by the Labour Party or is it behind the Koenders line?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u19	The Group of the Party of European Socialists is following the line I have just discussed. One of the important aspects of this is that we are a pro-European party, that we are a party seeking European cooperation that works better for citizens and that also ensures that the social problems and gaps in it can be solved. All the proposals that lead to this need to be discussed. I am very sorry that we have a sort of black and white line here asking: do you want 375 MEPs or 756. I think that is too easy a way to summarize a debate about our future, the future of our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u20	The Foreign Minister has put forward a proposal for this. He said that there should be no European army. He was very specific and took an advance on the debate we are holding together. Mrs Maij can certainly answer the question of what she thinks of that comprehensive article by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in which he writes: back to the core tasks and not a European pension system. He's moving away from the plans that are in here. Is Mrs. Maij going to go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u21	Let me answer this briefly. Perhaps Mr Voordewind would like to hear it this way: I did not plead for a federal Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u22	I am sorry that Mrs Maij does not just say here: the foreign minister's pilot balloon about halving the European Parliament is, of course, nothing more. It would be nice for her to say that, and I think she does, but she doesn't want to say that here. And I find that a little faint, because that can be said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'm here about my own thoughts and my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u24	I'm still curious. Mrs Maij's story reveals a whole package of issues that we should settle at European level. She says the PvdA is a pro-European party. That's how I know the PvdA. At the same time, I see in the PvdA and, for example, in the Foreign Minister of the same party, a kind of miraculous duplication where it is also said that the Member States need to get more into the spotlight and that they need to become stronger. Isn't there some kind of double message in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm trying to understand exactly what you want to ask. What I want is for the European continent not to have European cooperation in the European Union. The aim is for us to work together on the European continent in a safe, peaceful way and in a very promising way for everyone. We can now see that it is also very important, for example, to give our own national parliament the role that we have in the Lisbon Treaties. In this way, as national Member States, we can show our citizens much more clearly what we do and what we don't do in Europe and why we do and why we don't do something. Then we'd better be paid for what does and what doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u26	Just like the answer in the interruptions before, this answer is also quite common and flutters a bit back and forth. Are you going for a Europe where you need a stronger Europe on these important issues, such as asylum, economic cooperation and corporate income tax, which means that the Member States have to take a step back, which also means that they have to transfer a certain degree of autonomy in these areas? That's just the heart of the debate, isn't it? Surely it is a bit of saving the cabbage and the goat when you say: stronger Member States, more in the spotlight and confidence, but, as a pro-European party, do we want a pro-European policy? I can't knit it together. Mrs Maij may be able to do that; she can try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u27	There are, of course, different things going on. There are a number of issues on which European cooperation is absolutely necessary and needs to be strengthened. I also mentioned the environment, migration and security. There are other issues where it is important to make transparent and clear what our own responsibility is and what our ministers and our prime minister do in the Council where they represent us as a Member State, because we have to check them. There are issues where we absolutely need to work together more and there are other issues where we need to look much more closely at what our own national responsibility is and how we can do it ourselves, possibly in cooperation with a smaller number of neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u28	I did not think the answers to Mr Voordewind's questions were very clear. There is still a risk of a schism within the Labour Party. On the one hand, there is Minister Koenders who is asking for a serving Europe and who is against interference with care, education and pensions and who is against a European army. On the other hand, there is Minister Dijsselbloem with a mandate from the same PvdA-chooser, who advocates far-reaching integration. I can't get out of there. That is one of the points that this voter is so upset about, all this ambiguity, all that is missing. What's it gonna be? Where are you standing, where is the PvdA Group in this discussion? 'Cause it's not just something, it's really threatening a schism here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u29	I can't feel the schism. I understand you like to create that in our party. The last time I checked, Mr Dijsselbloem is Minister on behalf of all of us, even on behalf of your constituents. He is trying to ensure that Europe functions better in Europe, not only for the voters of the Labour Party but for all voters in the Netherlands. I also clearly replied to Mr Grashoff just now that we need to work more closely together on a number of issues and that we need to have our responsibilities very clearly here as a national Member State on a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u30	You did not talk about further federalisation in your speech. Mr Dijsselbloem says: a complete economic-financial-fiscal political union step by step. I understand you're taking a break from that. Mr Dijsselbloem is just talking, it is not a PvdA position. Your position and the position of Minister Koenders are valid. The voters can count on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u31	I think that these views can be put together well. We are not in favour of a federal Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. A world where leaders build walls. Do these walls make the world safer or do they symbolize the mutual division that makes the world so unsafe? Donald Trump increases the division and thus the insecurity. "America First" is a weakness offer. His intended ambassador to the EU, Ted Malloch, welcomes the break-up of the Union. I am actually curious to see how the cabinet views this appointment and the appointment of other ambassadors. No matter how many walls they want to build, the populists have no answer to the displeasure. The cause of the displeasure is in uncertainty: who is ready for me, can I find a permanent job, can I make it to retirement, what is my pension etc.? That is why I prefer to see Europe as a shield, a shield that protects our citizens and at the same time conveys our values, the values of individual rights, political freedom and social protection. A Europe that strengthens Member States by doing what Member States alone cannot do. This principle still offers plenty of opportunities for cooperation, but it also offers very clear limitations. I prefer to see a Europe that is made up of democracies, but is also a democracy. It is not for nothing that we talk about a democratic deficit. In short, I would like to see a social Europe that is more than market and currency, a Europe of people and for people. I am also pleased, Mr President, that is a compliment to the cabinet for thinking about the other Europe and what it should look like. Excellent. I very much doubt whether we should end up in a debate on whether it should be about shifts between institutions within the Union. I agree with the previous Foreign Minister of the current cabinet, Mr Timmermans: the Union is not a contradiction between Brussels and the Member States, but an attempt to make them work effectively and democratically together. Has that view changed? Another Europe means that everyone participates or, as the Prime Minister would say, I bet, a Europe in which we all act normally. Unfortunately, many countries in the Union are not acting normally. It is not normal for countries to avoid their responsibility in the refugee crisis. I have therefore asked for and received support in the European Parliament for a solidarity levy which encourages countries to accept refugees. It is not normal for some countries to prevent solutions to the loopholes in the free movement of workers. On the contrary, equal pay for equal work must be quickly pursued. Finally, it is not normal for countries to turn their backs on each other with advantageous tax rates. Does the cabinet also support Louis Asscher's call in the Guardian to block an agreement on the Brexit if there are no measures against tackling tax evasion? Another sign of the new normal is that the majority in the Lower House has drawn a yellow card for the common basis for the income tax. Now the tax on capital is systematically falling and taxes on labour are increasing. Systemically, the large enterprise pays less than small and medium-sized enterprises. This is unfair competition and it can be stopped by a common basis. I can understand it very well if there are practical questions and objections. I am rapporteur for the European Parliament on this subject and would like to discuss this issue with the House of Representatives. I hope that invitation will be accepted. Finally, unity makes power. It is time to leave the wait-and-see attitude behind us and to choose with conviction a strong Netherlands in a social and democratic Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u33	Madam President. It is almost incomprehensible what has happened over the past period. - The Brexit: the farewell of an important partner in the European Union. Suddenly departure from the European Union has become an option. - Systematic undermining of the rule of law by several Eastern European Member States, including Poland and Hungary and recently Romania, where the government attempted to legalise substantial corruption. - An IMF administration that states that Greek debt is unsustainable, while the country has to solve the refugee issue for Europe as a result of the Turkey deal. It is a disgrace, a disgrace, that refugees are cold, sick or even dying of misery on our continent, because they live under such terrible conditions. - A staggering Italy, where possible a referendum on the euro will take place. - Right-wing populist forces, offering easy solutions. And I can go on like this for a while. That is the state of the European Union. The risk is that, as so often, the flight will be chosen for fear of the European project falling apart. That would be the nail on the European coffin, because it is precisely in this way that the European Union loses the necessary support. We must go to another European Union, which is modest and where the Member States are setting up policies. That's what I'm committed to today and tomorrow. Last week, after the EU summit in Malta, the European Heads of Government stated that they would sign a declaration in Rome at the end of March and a margin of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. A renewal of the wedding promise, that's how diplomats characterized the declaration of intent. What are we supposed to do with such a statement? What is the Dutch commitment? How is the cabinet going to prevent this from becoming a europhile declaration of love, which the European Union sees as an answer to all the problems that arise, both nationally and internationally. Chancellor Merkel expressed her support for a Europe of different speeds, where Member States do not always have to take the same integration steps at the same time. The Benelux, including the Netherlands, is also for a two-speed Europe. The Prime Minister believes that urophils should stop dreaming of a federal Europe. In Malta he said, "Sometimes I think I might as well bark at the moon." Will the Prime Minister be prepared to join us in the continuing train of European integration? To make it even more confusing: the cabinet also writes that an à la carte European Union is not an option for the cabinet. It's like a lunar eclipse this way. Can the Prime Minister explain what he meant by that remark? It is time for the Prime Minister to clarify and stop speaking with two tongues. How can a Europe of different speeds be reconciled with the view that the European Union à la carte is not an option? We read in the Benelux declaration that the European Union must deliver only that which the Member States themselves cannot regulate for their citizens. What kind of business is that? Where does he draw the line when it comes to further transfer of powers? The statement advocates different paths of integration. What are the areas in which this applies to the Netherlands? I would like to make a move: to focus more on the state of law and cross-border challenges, such as the reception of refugees, and to leave the path of progressive monetary integration and the associated transfer of powers. Speak out against the report of the five Presidents, who, of course, are not Presidents at all, and clearly say no to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Is the Dutch Government prepared to clarify these points? It's all too foggy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u34	We have often talked about the SP's plans for the future of Europe. The SP is always very clear about what should not happen. However, it is always said to work together on the major cross-border issues. I remember once we were talking about protecting the external borders. The SP has voted against these proposals a few times. When it came to it, it was better not to. Is that still the line of the SP when it comes to major cross-border cooperation issues? When it comes down to it, shouldn't it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u35	When it comes to external borders, you can work very well together. That does not mean, however, that you need a European body that has all the powers in this area and that is controlled by Brussels. Working together is very good. That is a common interest. Well, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u36	Finally, Mr Verhoeven, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u37	Absolutely. We shouldn't be doing this for too long. However, Mr Van Bommel has to be challenged a little, otherwise he will get away with some of these very vague proposals each time too easily. Have we not seen that on the major, important issues which the SP is talking about, cooperation between Member States is not leading to anything? Isn't it better to choose a few topics on which you dare to go further in order to really come up with serious solutions instead of always saying that we need to work together? 'Cause when it comes to it, it actually means standing still.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Verhoeven is doing exactly as I warn him. There is a solution to a problem for which there is still insufficient support in some Member States. Then you should not say that you leave the power in Brussels after which Brussels can impose it on the Member States. That's how you destroy the European Union, that's how you blow it up. If you do not complete the process step by step with the participation of the population in those Member States, you are sure that the political union that D66 is so in favour of will not come. The United States of Europe will not be there. In addition, we will soon lose the baby with the bath water. I don't want to. As far as we are concerned, it is time for a real change. Not in the form of yet another declaration, but in the form of a new European treaty. Our four spearheads are next. Reduce the European Union to an executive body. To abolish tight budgetary rules that undermine the sovereignty of Member States. The possibility of imposing restrictions on the internal market. No more transfer of powers without consulting the public. Those are substantial changes. It is time that the Prime Minister finally confessed colour and dared to make real limits and demands. I would like to hear which of these points the Prime Minister would like to consider. Rabobank states in a fresh survey that if nothing changes within the Union, the EU will eventually disintegrate with all the consequences and huge costs. If the European Union falls apart, we do not want it, the Dutch economy would shrink by 10% to 15% and unemployment would double. In addition, Rabobank writes that muddling is possible in the short term, but untenable in the long term. However, that is a bit of European politics: to continue to muddle. The cost of a Union of different speeds would be substantial. Can the Prime Minister respond to these future scenarios? What conclusions does he draw from this? What does this mean for his commitment when it comes to drawing up the Rome Declaration? Can he explain what would be the cost of a Union of different speeds for the Netherlands and those countries which are moving less quickly? As far as Brexit is concerned, I would like to raise one pressing issue today. What will happen to the 3 million EU citizens currently living in the United Kingdom who are facing an uncertain future on the island? Prime Minister May wants to negotiate quickly the rights of EU citizens in the UK and of over 1 million UK citizens living in the EU, but has not yet made any concrete commitments. It is up to the Netherlands and the EU to tackle the gauntlet as quickly as possible and to make clear commitments to safeguard the rights of EU citizens everywhere. Minister Crabb of Employment and Pensions also insisted on this and even advocated a swift settlement of the matter with EU citizens, even if the rights of the British in the EU have not yet been settled. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what steps he is going to take, what period and how he will keep the Chamber informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u39	I hear Mr Van Bommel say: we must get rid of the European regulations which are being enforced by the Member States via Europe, via Brussels. If I try to make that clear on the basis of a few examples, then I am thinking of the Birds and Habitats Directives. It's enforceable. Will Mr Van Bommel abolish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u40	I am wrongly quoted and then an example is given that does not meet that wrong quote. No, that's not how we do business here. I have just had the discussion with Mr Verhoeven on problems for which we are trying to find a solution at European level, through cooperation, but where Member States are not prepared to participate in this solution. Then you can say, like D66 does: then we're going to make that enforceable. My story is: if there is no intrinsic support for the implementation of such proposals in those countries, then you should not impose it on us, because then you will blow up the European Union. That's our story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u41	This is exactly why I chose this example. I didn't do that because of the example in itself. If I try to follow Mr Van Bommel's reasoning, then everything you would propose now should logically apply to what is already in place of European legislation. It would be strange if existing legislation were enforceable, but something new would by definition not be enforceable. I can't get to that with my mind. Does this mean, for example, that if we agreed on a key for establishing refugees across the EU Member States, which should suddenly not be binding? I think the house of cards will collapse soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr Grashoff is a bit of a fool. He understands a lot more than he does now. Fortunately, we know that, otherwise it would be difficult to do business. Of course it doesn't. That would be inconsistent. It is a question of whether you also have European agreement on a mechanism to enforce something, such as sanctions. There are all kinds of instruments in Europe, which are already being applied, to promote certain things, sometimes to enforce them and sometimes to punish them if they are not complied with. There are sufficient instruments in the European toolbox to achieve a policy whereby you do it a little more without obligation and at the same time a little more binding, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u43	This really is a demonstrably inconsistent story. That is what Mr Van Bommel has done here on the basis of two examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u44	I call Mr De Jong on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u45	Madam President. The article by Minister Koenders in the AD has already been mentioned. It inspired me to devote my total time here as an informant MEP to this. There are actually two proposals: halving the European Parliament and the Members of the European Parliament must come more among the people. Well, that's the essence of it, isn't it? I have to say honestly: when I first came to the European Parliament in 2009 and said the buildings, I had the idea: can't we do something less here? However, if you think about it, halving in the Dutch situation means that parties with about seven seats or less are no longer directly represented in the European Parliament. My first question is therefore: does the Minister really want such a threshold? While the Minister wants to pretend in his article to be very sober and critical, I think he is playing into the hands of the people who want a federal Europe. What do you see in the European Parliament? You have national delegations and they are actually being pushed away by the European groups. The smaller you make those delegations, the more emphasis is placed on the European groups. Now there is nothing wrong with European groups; I myself am Vice-President of a left-wing group, and that is fine. We work well together, too. But it is precisely the link with the national that runs through the delegations, and the Minister wants to reduce it. I don't think that's a good thing. In addition, the smaller delegations, if they were to be halved, would have to spend their time even more on internal parliamentary activities. In that case, they come less among the people. I don't think that's consistent. The minister also mentions the moving circus. That's ridiculous, of course. That's what we all find here. However, the Heads of Government must make a decision on this, as the Minister is well aware. That is precisely why, after consultation with colleagues Van Baalen and Tang, I approached the Permanent Representation in Brussels in 2015 with the proposal to work together on an alternative to Strasbourg. The entrepreneurs in that city are interested in that. One of their spokesmen told me that they assume that sooner or later the European Parliament will leave Strasbourg and that they therefore want to take part in thinking about alternatives. In addition, a permanent institution provides them more than MEPs who spend three nights in their city as a swarm of locusts once a month. Minister Koenders' ministry reacted positively, but it's not getting anywhere. Here, whether the Minister was not informed by his officials of this initiative or whether he simply wanted to make a quick number in the AD. In both cases it is particularly unfortunate. I would very much like to invite the Minister to work with us. There is one thing the Minister did not mention, namely the back room politics in the European Parliament. In recent years, all important issues have been discussed between the group chairmen of the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats. There was even weekly consultation with the Dutch Social Democratic Commissioner Timmermans. All this was intended to prevent a free debate in the European Parliament. If there's any reason for democratic decision-making, it's this kind of backroom deal. The great coalition has now collapsed after the disagreement over who Martin Schulz should succeed as President of the European Parliament and the Social Democrats are now seeking cooperation on the left. I am in favour of this with the whole group of the left in the European Parliament, but then we must do it in a completely transparent way and have no back room politics. A SP who stands up for the European Parliament, you may not see that every day. I would like to say that the European Parliament is an elected body, unlike the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u46	Please finish, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yeah, this is my last sentence. Abolition of the Commissioners of the European Union, as Mr Van Bommel has already mentioned, the political Commissioners, and a right of initiative would offer real relief. This will allow Member States and the European Parliament to put forward proposals and decide on legislation. Too bad we didn't hear about it from the minister. I await his answer with more than great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you very much, Mr De Jong. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to shape the future of the EU on the basis of a firm conviction and to assess the shortcomings on the basis of transparent and democratic processes. However, this government pretends that there is still no democratic deficit in the EU. It is not that by halve the number of Members of the European Parliament you make the Union more democratic or whatever. It's jammed. It is so hard to believe that last week this Chamber decided to ask the Parliamentary Advocate to give an opinion to the Chamber on whether the Heads of Government, that his Prime Minister Rutte and his 27 colleagues, comply with the Treaty. They keep so much information on European summits secret and confidential that many professors here in the hearing stated that they do not comply with the Treaty in terms of openness and transparency. It is, of course, a shame that the government does not want to take that up itself and in the meantime wants to lecture the rest of the EU. I would like to receive a proposal from the government for greater openness. You want some examples? The first is the euro group. There is still no statute. This means that there is no procedure for openness, none at all. A second example: the Brexit. We had a good confidential briefing from the minister this morning. But we have asked for months to let us know what is being discussed between the 27 Member States that remain in the European Union. That is, of course, important, because these negotiations are taking place. I would even blame the government if she didn't talk to the 26 partners right now. After all, we know that the notification is coming. I am not only blaming the government, because the Chamber has also rejected a motion to make this more open. A number of external events and developments have an increasing impact on the state of Europe. Exercising influence on this is more and more beyond our control. This elusiveness causes fear. We must set our own course. This means that Europe must focus on its core tasks. The security agenda and the economic agenda are the most important ones. We must achieve security by controlling immigration, through good cooperation in the fight against terrorism and through effective cooperation in the field of defence. Without restoring confidence in the European institutions, it is impossible to take steps in the internal market. The CDA starts with monetary policy and the role of the ECB in it. Monetary policy harms the Dutch economy. On Monday we will discuss this extensively on the basis of an initiative paper from the CDA, but let me give you a small example. Inflation in the Union is now 1.8%, in the Netherlands 1.7%. The objective is an inflation rate just below 2%. That's exactly what we're on. We meet the target. But what does the ECB do? He continues with his very drastic policy of buying up 60 billion in government bonds and other bonds every month. We will soon have bought up 2,500 billion in bonds; €6,000 per euro area resident. That is a huge risk, because, as you know, Italian bonds are not exactly risk-free. An interest rate of 0% and strong inflation mean that savers throughout Europe and pensioners in the Netherlands pay for the debtors. This is a much larger transfer than the European budget. Is the Dutch Government prepared to place the ban on monetary financing and its tightening on the European agenda? The relationship between the EU and Turkey will be under pressure again this year. I'd say it's muddy. There's a deal out there we were against refugees. We remain critical of the fact that the Union is being blackmailed by Turkey and is throwing European values completely out of order because it is not in order. Human rights are at the heart of the government's policy. Well, if we suspect from one place that human rights are being violated on a large scale, that is Turkey. More than 100,000 civil servants have been fired. There is rule by decree. An opposition party is prosecuted in its entirety and put in prison. I can go on, but the speaking time is too short. Turns out what? The European Union finances Turkish prisons for EUR 2 million per month to improve standards there. We asked the government: what standards? We asked the Commission to do the same. Commissioner Timmermans and Commissioner Hahn sent a letter after long pressing. It stated that it was intended that the recommendations of the Anti-Folter Commission, the Council of Europe's CPT, should be followed. That committee has just after the coup, you know: what all these bloody videos of, in which people are completely beaten up in prisons, have paid a special visit. I had the opportunity to ask Commissioner Hahn in the Council of Europe: did you receive that report from August? That should be the basis for further action. Commissioner Hahn's answer was: we do not have that. But we're just gonna keep paying. There is still a motion from the Chamber (21501, No. 1704), which asks to indicate by 15 January whether torture is taking place in Turkish prisons and whether it is taking place in prisons where EU money has gone. When are we going to get an answer to this and when are we going to get serious work done on this part of human rights policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Chairman. This debate began with two speakers who stressed very strongly the economic benefits of European cooperation for our country. We in the Netherlands are very good at underlining that economical always. It's true, too. I would warn against the British colleagues in the European Parliament in particular saying to us: in England we have always sold the European Union as something economic. Perhaps that was one of the reasons for the discontent and resentment towards the Brexit. If you sell something as purely economic while it is also a value community, while it is also cooperation on, for example, migration and the fight against terrorism, then you have actually sold too narrow a message. So be careful with that. Much more than the economy in the present world is actually about our values, especially in the migration debate, and geopolitics. We, as Europeans, will soon be 5% of the world's population. We hold 25% of global gross national product and we have 50% of global spending on social security and that sort of thing. At a time when we want to be able to make our mark on the world with that 5% and also an ageing population, we do so better together than alone. In addition, we are more than just a market. For example, the Court has rightly declared the fight against unfair competition in the labour market a priority. The Detachment Directive has already been mentioned, and I think I remember it by Mrs Maij. The Minister for Social Affairs has indeed tried to put this issue on the agenda in Europe. He hasn't been that successful in the last four years. I dare say that a rapporteur from the European Parliament such as Agnes Jongerius, who sits in front of this legislation and holds the pen, may mean more to our country and to this fight than to a minister. Why not invite her, for example, to the relevant specialist committee of this Parliament? I therefore find the pats on the back that the cabinet gives itself in the letter of the Chamber on this issue far from right. It is precisely Commissioner Marianne Thyssen who, despite yellow cards from 11 countries, keeps this important issue on the agenda. So let this be a warning to those who believe that everything can be settled through the Council. In an intergovernmental system, I also say to Mr Van Bommel, who seems to be very much a fan, this important social issue had long been wiped off the table. This is important because Europe for too long has been in favour of opening up markets and far too little for the well-being of people in the same markets. One of the most important tasks of the coming year will be to establish a new basis for European cooperation. Yes: on main lines, but with one-liners we will not get there. Take the debate as a priority as far as I am concerned. That is the question of the security of European citizens and the importance of defence. You will notice here in Parliament that certain words are taboo. "Defense Union," we don't like that. "European army," we don't like that either. That's obvious. However, almost every electoral programme of almost every party represented in this Parliament says: we must also do more financially in defence. Of course NATO is our main security alliance, but we will also have to be able to carry out smaller missions ourselves if the security umbrella from America is no longer a matter of course. So the question is not how we respond to highly loaded concepts such as 'defension union', but what we really want. As far as the CDA is concerned, these initiatives are from the bottom up, as in the Dutch Navy, which worked closely with Belgium and Germany and also welcomed a Portuguese frigate last week. So the question is whether we will continue to respond to forbidden concepts that we would rather not mention or really see what we can do. If we want to remain faithful to our values and to receive and protect refugees, then we must also be able to be clear and, where necessary, tough towards those who cannot claim protection in Europe, including further readmission agreements with countries that receive development aid and have or want trade agreements with the EU. That's where migration and defense get each other. If we do not succeed, if the chaos remains in Libya, we will, for example, have to go through a blockade on the sea side, in order to prevent people from getting into boats and drowning. The balance is not easy, but the values must be guiding. That's our assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. We decide something, then let it rest for a while and see what happens. If no one then makes noise and no rebellion breaks out because most people do not understand what has been decided anyway, then we go on step by step, until there is no turning back. It is this infamous statement by the President of the European Commission which is so characteristic of the EU's modus operandi vis-à-vis European citizens. In this way, the citizen was messed up in a Union he didn't want. The promise made to the Dutch citizen was that the Union would bring prosperity, unity and peace. Today we are here to discuss the state of the Union. We note that the Union has not brought unity and prosperity, but division. The Union brought about one crisis after another, and ultimately the Union has become a transfer union in which our prosperity is massively eroded in order to maintain countries in the south and east of Europe. Greece has so far been the greatest tragedy. Even worse, the Union has stolen our sovereignty. We no longer have control over our borders. The Union has turned our beautiful Netherlands into a country without borders; we are like a house without a front door where everyone can just walk in and sit at the table to eat with. The European Union has never been in such a bad state as it is today. We've had some Brexit. We have a continuous migration crisis that is disrupting our country, our social welfare system. We are facing a continuing Greek crisis, a potential euro crisis, a desperate elite, and above all a total crisis of confidence among the citizens. More EU, that's the only direction Brussels seems to know. This direction is best expressed by Mr Verhofstadt, the leader of the ALDE group, of which the VVD is a member. In that context, I would like a clarification from the Prime Minister. Is the message that CDA and VVD recently concluded an agreement in the EP on 20 January in which they say they will fight together for a federal Europe? VVD and CDA who subscribe to a United States of Europe in exchange for Guy Verhofstadt's commitment to support the Christian Democratic candidate for the Presidency of the European Parliament. Is that message correct? I'd like a reaction to that. After all, it is very remarkable. VVD and CDA here in the Chamber often criticize the Brussels drift to take over national sovereignty. In The Hague, CDA and VVD regularly focus on the EU. They are critical of EU regulation, of expensive emergency funds, of EU budgetary interference. Both sides say they want to keep the EU budget limited. They are concerned about the lack of transparency, etcetera, etcetera. Stop dreaming about a federal Europe. Well, the Prime Minister would have called on his colleagues to do that. He added: "Sometimes I think I might as well bark at the moon." I think the Prime Minister is barking with two mouths. One mouth barks slightly eurocritically against the Netherlands and one mouth barks heavily europhile to Brussels. Not only the EU has a credibility problem, but also Prime Minister Rutte. How can he say on the one hand that he is opposed to further federalisation of the EU if at the same time the VVD signs an agreement that is working towards a federal Europe? Is that the "normal" thing the Prime Minister's been talking about lately? In the agreement, both VVD and CDA mention as starting point three reports on which the European Parliament will vote next month. Specifically, it calls for European taxes, a significantly higher European budget and more debt opportunities for the EU. It goes even further: they even want a European army and a so-called European mechanism for monitoring fundamental rights. That is the view of the VVD in Brussels. The Dutch version always sounds different. I urge the Prime Minister to clarify this today. In any case, we draw the following conclusion: in the Netherlands, CDA and VVD pose as Eurosceptic; in the European Parliament, they agree with any plan to make Brussels bigger and more powerful. 'More, more Europe' is the motto of the Christian Democrats, the CDA, and of the Liberals, the VVD. According to ALDE President Verhofstadt, an increase in nationalism in Europe will have serious consequences. He claims that nationalism on the continent is based on ethnicity and not nationality. "We all know what nationalism has done in Europe. Twenty million victims, the Holocaust, it's all based on nationalism," he says in Elsevier. I have responded that nationalism is not based on ethnicity, but on values, shared values. Everyone, of whatever colour or origin, who shares our values, is part of the community. My question to the Prime Minister is: do you agree with your group chairman's view in Brussels that nationalism leads to a holocaust or do you agree with my view that nationalism is based on those shared values? Can the Prime Minister confirm that, according to the European Commission's forecasts, an estimated 60 million immigrants are needed and that migration should therefore be possible by legal means, that this is laid down in a European Parliament resolution and that this idea is actively promoted by Commissioner Mogherini? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I'm closing up. In 2017, we and many of us see that the EU is not a sustainable model. The crisis of confidence can hardly be greater than it is today. The European Union project is coming to an end, if it is not now, then the deterioration will continue over the next ten years. Every crisis shows that the EU is unable to face reality. Sooner or later there will be a nexit and many other exits. This is always a nail to the coffin of the EU project. Oh, my God, look at that. Face this reality and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u52	When I was speaking, I mentioned the port of Rotterdam. There 90,000 people work every day; that is twice the football stadium De Kuip. Suppose the Netherlands leaves the European Union, as the PVV wants. What does that mean for the employment of these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u53	That will indeed... that is unknown at this time. This is entirely due to the attitude of Mr Dijsselbloem, for example, whom I now hear speaking very threatening language on television towards the United Kingdom, whereas this minister should act with a Dutch mandate in the interests of, for example, those Dutch entrepreneurs. He won't. He is acting in the interests of the Brussels elite, who is committed to making it extremely difficult for the United Kingdom. I would say: don't do that; stand up for those Dutch entrepreneurs. That's where the importance of the PvdA lies. That is where Mr Dijsselbloem's interest lies. The images of developments in the United Kingdom are not very clear. Let me give you a few examples. Employment is improving considerably. It's never been this high since the 1970s. We are seeing strong growth in British industry thanks to the decline in the pound. These are all signs that the United Kingdom will survive. The Netherlands will also eventually do so. Trade always flows to the lowest point. It always goes on. We did that without Brussels. You must have a little faith in it, Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u54	I think Rotterdam has been warned: the PVV would like to take a risk with the Rotterdam port.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u55	Let me give you another example. What all the people who voted for the Brexit are very happy about is that the United Kingdom is going to go back to its own immigration and its own borders. We can't do that. We depend on Brussels and on Frontex, an organisation that is not performing and has never done so. We are open to this huge stream from Africa and the Middle East, which is incredibly disruptive. At least that's the advantage that the nexit will bring. Our constituents are looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr Bertema has not been on our committee visit to London. His colleague De Roon was with us. There we heard a really different story than what Mr Beertema is picturing here. He can check with Mr. De Roon. In Britain there is still no idea how the external borders and tariffs will work. So you get exactly the uncertainty about which Mr Beertema's first answer to Mr Mulder's question went, after which there was still a lot of follow-up. He has no idea. There are 90,000 people working in the port of Rotterdam. If you say "nexit is toppie" when you have no idea what's going to happen to the jobs of those 90,000 people, don't you play with the certainty of the Dutch people? That is not something Mr Beertema should want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u57	Over the decades, the Netherlands has messed up this Brussels project, as I have already said. We have given so much out of our hands, partly because of the indulgent attitude of the PvdA and many other parties. We have nothing more to say. Much of our sovereignty is gone. The moment you decide that this has to be different, you are indeed going on an adventure. We'll survive that adventure. The Netherlands is strong enough for that, as is the United Kingdom. Of course, there will be short-term effects that are detrimental, but in the end the countries will come out very well. The big advantage is that we get a lot of that sovereignty back. We're just gonna be the nation state we were. We can make our own trade agreements that we want. That's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u58	It is precisely when we are strong in Europe and we work together that individual Member States are stronger and more sovereign. However, that is a different issue from what we are talking about now. You can say that we are leaving the European Union, as is happening in Great Britain. Over the last few days, we have discussed this extensively with our fellow Members, Mr De Roon too, and it shows that we have no idea what the external import and export tariff will be and what the quality of the products that people may be able to produce and export will be. There is a lot of uncertainty and a lot of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u59	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u60	My question is a repeat of just now, but we are not getting an answer to that. Mr Beertema, you are simply playing with the jobs of the Dutch citizen because it is so convenient for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u61	We trust that our entrepreneurs, our businesses and our economy will be strong enough to find their own way outside the Brussels dictatorships. For us, it is important that we take over our own borders and stop further Islamization of our country. Yes, you are looking at it, but these are the main causes of the Brexit. The British people were so sick of being flooded by all kinds of people from Eastern Europe and from the Islamic world, people who changed their cities and completely Islamicized them. In the end, that is why the British people have said that they should leave. That is precisely why the Dutch people, and perhaps later the French people, will say: we are going out too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u62	I would like to invite you to come next time, because then you can speak with a little more knowledge than just to get away from the fist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u63	I come to England a lot and I speak a lot there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr. Chairman. We're almost through. By the way, I am not referring to this debate, but to this week with many debates. We live in times of changing geopolitical relations. Not only in Washington, Moscow and Ankara are those in power driven by a new self-awareness, Europe cannot be left behind either. Where some look for self-awareness in populism and fake solutions, we see opportunities for an effective and democratic European Union. With Trump in power, a strong Europe is needed more than ever. At a time when terrorism has no borders, we must look beyond borders. At a time when we are far too dependent on Russian gas, European forces are desperately needed. But it is precisely in these times of external threat that the Union is increasingly under pressure internally. More and more governments and populist parties are opting for new nationalism instead of European solutions. That is precisely why this calls for a forward-looking agenda, for an effective and democratic European Union, with popular support. It is clear that D66 is still committed to Europe. That is precisely why we are critical of the current state of the Union. D66 also wants to break the current status quo in order to achieve a better Europe; a Union that solves people's problems. We do that along three lines. First of all, more powers on the major cross-border issues. Secondly, only European offerings that are not national. Thirdly, targeted reforms and better organisation. I'm going to explain this to you today. If you want more information, you can find it on our site D66.nl. In any case, it is good for the colleagues to visit that site. The first is, therefore, greater powers for Europe on the major cross-border issues. Where most of the colleagues in the Chamber are making a dirty face in this approach, we know one thing for sure: the Netherlands cannot do this alone. Terrorists know no borders, but unfortunately national security services do. Therefore, as I have said many times, ensure mandatory exchange of information on terrorist suspects within Europe. If Trump calls for NATO to be dated, then European forces must join forces. Therefore, strengthen cooperation in the field of defence. If walls are being built and free trade is being renounced, we must be committed to the free market. Trade agreements, such as the agreement with Canada, are not so crazy. I would also say that we should stop pumping money into agricultural subsidies and yesterday's economy and invest in knowledge and innovation for tomorrow's sustainable economy. The cabinet has started it, but why has it not continued to reform the European budget? I'd like a response. D66 believes that in a strong Europe everything does not need to be regulated at European level. On the contrary. All the measures taken by a government include the critical question of the level of governance at which we should regulate this. Border surveillance and climate policy should be at European level. There must therefore be a focus on added European value and cross-border issues. Almost all colleagues have already said things today about core tasks and so on. An important difference with colleagues who say that is that D66 dares to say that more Europe is sometimes needed to carry out these core tasks. Does the cabinet dare to publicly choose to do so, or does Minister Koenders continue to come up with faint texts about ketchup? Then I found his recent support for the Fundamental Rights Pact of my colleague Sophie In 't Veld, who is soon to be admired here, much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u65	D66 dares to say anything, and I am in favour of it, but I dare ask a question. Mr Verhoeven has just said that such a free trade agreement with Canada is not so bad. Less than a minute later, he suggested that Europe is needed for a good climate policy. What is so obvious about a free trade agreement with Canada, which will allow the most polluting fuel on earth, tar sand oil, to flood our market and our Dutch or European dairy herd to explode even further in order to supply the Canadian market with milk, while cattle farming is one of the largest operators of a healthy climate? What exactly does that make sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u66	We have had this debate many times. D66 believes that the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, with the progressive hero of the new Western world, Justin Trudeau, is a good idea. It is good to work with the most progressive leader, who is admired by everyone who is social-liberal. We therefore welcome the confirmation of trade with Canada, with the sustainable, green and progressive prime minister in that country, so that there will be more trade. We do not share the fears of the Party of Animals. We have looked closely at that treaty. We are not concerned about flooding our market with all things from Canada. We think it is just good for cooperation and trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u67	Yeah, but those are different things, aren't they? Good for cooperation and trade is something quite different from a truly good climate policy. So I ask my question again. D66 was convinced of the disadvantages of tar sand oil. After all, it has supported motions by the Animal Party asking the government to ensure a European import ban. Of course, that is not going to happen, because the European Commission itself has taken the liberty of concluding this deal with Canada. What exactly does Europe do for the climate? We have agreements, objectives and, of course, ambitions. It's beautiful. However, if, in practice, you do not stop the use of tar sand oil, for example, and you do not dare to choose, we are talking about a shrinkage of European livestock, but we are signing a free trade agreement which will further increase those livestock, then nothing has yet been achieved for the climate except on paper promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u68	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u69	I would also like Mr Verhoeven to reflect on the sacrosanctity of Europe for climate policy if he simply supports these parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u70	I have met the President this week as a President who will not be very happy if I reflect on something in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u71	No, you got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u72	The President would prefer it if I kept it brief and clear. In a week with meetings until deep into the night, you get to know each other better. I will therefore try to give a brief answer, Mr President. Europe is still doing far too little in terms of sustainability and climate. I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand on this. That is precisely why we are calling for far-reaching cooperation in the joint procurement of energy, so that the energy bill of European people can be reduced and emissions reduced much further. We still work far too little together on climate and clean air. These are all matters on which we say that they must be taken up at European level. That's actually where we find each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u73	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u74	... I'd like to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u75	Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u76	We really do interrupts in two, Mrs Ouwehand. Everyone's kept to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u77	Except Mrs. Maij just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u78	No. Yeah, she went right through it, but she can't. That's a bad example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u79	Oh, that was a bad example! I would very much like to follow that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u80	You wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u81	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u82	I am sure that Mrs Ouwehand and I will definitely find each other on the pro-European, green, sustainable policy. I look forward to working together in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u83	Don't you want to provoke any more, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u84	No, absolutely not, but I do think it is important to say that to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u85	You may give one short response, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u86	That is how we know Mr Verhoeven; he takes advantage of it immediately. What D66 wants is for Europe to do things for the climate. That's beautiful. That's what we want. However, it is important that you also do things now that do not harm the climate further. However, the European Commission does so on its own and D66 is also in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u87	D66 is for creating jobs and for working well with a country that has almost the most progressive leader in the world. We believe that this will be good for a lot of people who do not have a job now, but who may be able to get a job because we can sell and export things again. I shall continue with my speech, because I would like to mention a third line of D66, which concerns the democratic control of the European Parliament. It needs to be much stronger. Members of the European Parliament are here today. The European Parliament must become fully co-legislator, including the right of initiative. That's what I'm saying to professional K. The Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister also like to hear that the European Parliament could be cut in half. On the contrary, D66 wants enhanced democratic control through the European Parliament, but also through the national parliament, which must also be able to monitor more closely what the government is doing in Europe. I look forward with great interest to the Europe Act announced by Maij and Mulder, M&M. I told you, D66 also wants a smaller European Commission. We must move away from the system whereby each Member State has a European Commissioner, for whomever needs to find an appropriate portfolio. I would like a response from the cabinet to this proposal, which I gave a little bit of information last week. The European Parliament should be known for the political debates, not for wasting money or inefficiency. The European Parliament can therefore do better. His official organization can be slimmer. The remuneration for Members of the European Parliament may be made public. And the European Parliament must ensure that it can decide for itself where it meets. Of course, I have many more proposals, but I must leave it at that. The core is clear: with Trump in power, a strong Europe is needed more than ever. Let us work together on the reforms needed to make a better, united Europe. That is what my European colleague has been trying to do for years. I mean, of course, Sophie in the Field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u88	I listened carefully to Mr Verhoeven's speech. In that story, one large part is missing: labour migration. The free movement of workers is a crown jewel of Europe, of which D66 has always been in favour. It has just been said that we need to listen more to Europe. At the time, we listened to Minister Donner of the CDA when he said that there would be no more than 15,000 Poles and hardly any Bulgarians or Romanians. A week ago, the CBS figures came out: now, in 2017, we have 850,000 employees from the EU. There are more and more voices who want us to do something about labour migration. We can talk about the port of Rotterdam, but those 850,000 employees have jobs and those...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u89	Where do you want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u90	You'll see, Mr. Chairman. Of course, these 850,000 jobs are at the expense of jobs and wage formation here. I ask Mr Verhoeven how he stands in that debate. Does he agree that it is time to curb labour migration within the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u91	I saw those numbers last week. Of course, I have already had questions about this, and rightly so. I think it is particularly important that the abuse of people who are paid less than the people in the country itself should be tackled. This has happened far too little in recent times. They're taking advantage. This gives people the feeling that they are being falsely competed. So that needs to be addressed. But let us not forget that a lot of Dutch people work in another country of the European Union, earn money and get a chance. There are more than the other way around. So it is a two-way story: a good side and a bad side. I fully agree with Mr Monasch that this bad side needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u92	The story of one side in the Netherlands is a bit different from that of the other. In the Netherlands, this is mainly about jobs at the bottom of society, where a race to the bottom is going on, where wages are under pressure from jobs of people who are easily replaceable. People in the Netherlands with low education would like to have such a job, but cannot get it. So it is not so easy to say that there are Dutch people working in Europe. Of course it is, but we are dealing with a very big social problem. And it is not only because of this, but also because of lower wage formation: because we have more people here, wages automatically go down. I did not hear Mr Verhoeven speak of this at all. What does he intend to do about it in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u93	I think this is a very fair question. For the sake of clarity, I refer to our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u94	That's a weakness offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, that's not a weakness offer. It's made up of 200 pages. I will certainly not read them all here, although that would be good for some people; and especially for the Prime Minister, who is now making a lot of jokes here. I'm looking forward to his input in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u97	What Mr Monasch is saying is justified. But it is not just the European Union. Globalisation, digitisation and globalisation cost people a lot of jobs. Those jobs aren't gone, but they are for those people. They think: what is wrong with my job; what is wrong with my neighborhood; what is wrong with my existence? It's all right. We must not just say that this is Europe's fault and that Europe must resolve it. We certainly need to do something about this labour migration and the Detaching Directive; I fully agree with that. But we need to look at many more measures to redistribute globalisation and give people another chance. This is all over the D66 electoral programme, which is really an important line in that. We are fully in favour of this. Mr Monasch should read it again. He will see that we have all kinds of concrete proposals to help people in this position, the victims of globalisation, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u98	I call Mrs In 't Veld. The expectations are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr President, honourable Members of the House of Representatives and the Cabinet. As my colleague Verhoeven pointed out, the EU seems divided and paralyzed, unable to respond to people's concerns and wishes. For D66, it is very clear: a strong, butchery European Union is indispensable to ensure our way of life, prosperity, freedom and security. Right now, a strong EU is a necessary protection in the global economy and in the world of the Internet, climate change, geopolitical shifts and migration flows. When I read the text of the cabinet, I get the impression that the Russian hackers have already struck. VVD and PvdA propose a purely intergovernmental Europe: weak, divided, undemocratic. Trump and Putin are rubbing themselves in the hands of the idea of an EU, ruled by a group of 28 bickering governments who can't agree on anything. One has already run away and tomorrow Marine le Pen may be sitting next to Prime Minister Rutte at the table. The cabinet says it wants results. D66 fully agrees, but an intergovernmental Europe does not deliver. Simple cooperation between governments is inadequate. If you do not believe that, let me give you a few concrete examples. The supervision of banks or emission standards according to the system: the butcher approves his own meat... is a failure. Sharing information about terrorists and criminals doesn't work either. Abolition of roaming charges, then? Even that was not achieved by national governments; this had to be enforced by the European Parliament. To curb the financial crisis, some 40 crisis peaks were needed. Another nice one: the European Court of Justice asked for 9 additional judges, but received 28 because the Member States did not agree. And, dear friends of the VVD: international trade agreements are not going to come with an intergovernmental Europe either. Instead of making the EU more effective and democratic, the VVD and the PvdA propose flexibility. In reality, this is nothing more than circumventing laws and treaties: making deals without a legal basis, without parliamentary control, without judicial review. In the text of the cabinet, Dutch people are only allowed to talk indirectly; they are not allowed to decide. D66 wants the Dutch to decide for themselves on the direction and political leaders of the EU. The most poignant example of the failing intergovernmental method is refugee policy. It's gonna cost lives. The deals with Turkey and Libya are immoral and without legal basis. In fact, it is about fortress Europe. The fine bureaucratic words in which the cabinet has packaged deals cannot hide the fact that it is outsourced the dirty work to Turkey and Libya. The conditions for migrants are absolutely appalling there. How could it be? In the European Parliament, we work together with a broad majority of political groups, from left to right, on a European asylum and migration policy, which is both effective and humane, with a Dublin scheme that actually provides for joint reception, with short procedures to determine quickly who is allowed to stay and who is not, with good reception conditions, such as language lessons and a job from day one for rapid integration and with a bluecard system for migrant workers, so that the asylum procedure does not need to be abused anymore. By weakening Europe, we are not making the Netherlands stronger. We do that by looking straight into the challenges, with ambition and courage for the future. In 1957, 60 years ago, the Netherlands was the frontrunner in Europe. And we can be that again, if we show the same courage and vision as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. After the Second World War, Europe was a continent of hope, a continent of peace, of security and of democracy. Europe was a continent of economic development. For decades, the Netherlands has benefited from European cooperation. However, today's Europe is characterised by fault lines, by a gap between the elite and the population, between north and south, between the British and the EU, between anti- and pro-Europe. Europe is struggling with itself and its ideals. We see a great discontent among the people. Somewhere along the way, the European Union has forgotten the citizens, while the train of European integration went through. It is precisely this alienation that is the greatest threat to Europe's future. The Christian Union is in favour of a serious reset of the European Union. We must return to the objective of a union of sovereign, cooperating Member States, a union that has added value to the important cross-border issues, such as migration, trade, climate, energy, security and prosperity. But also a Union that knows its place, when it comes to national competences. Minister Koenders seems to have that sense of reality now. In his open letter to Donald Trump, the Minister explained a radical reform of the European Union. For example, he wants a leading role for the Member States and a serving role for the European Commission. He does not want a European army and wants to leave matters such as education, care and pensions to the Member States. Shouldn't he have sent that letter to another Donald to Donald Tusk? Tusk, on the other hand, is clearly in favour of more Europe and more integration. Furthermore, Minister Dijsselbloem is one of the signatories to the so-called Five Presidents' Report, which is also heading in the opposite direction: more European integration, a European finance minister, European taxation, eurobonds and a fiscal union. What will be the radical reform of Minister Koenders? Or is it going towards the further integration of Minister Dijsselbloem? Does the Cabinet explicitly renounce the Five Presidents' Report? I would also like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to this. I'm here to talk about migration. A prominent part of the Bratislava Declaration is the theme of migration and external borders. And rightly so! The letter stresses that Member States should make sufficient relocation sites available, in particular for vulnerable refugees. It's left behind now. At present, only 12,000 refugees have been distributed among the Member States while the intention was to distribute 160,000. Yesterday, Commissioner Timmermans announced that he is considering legal action against Member States that oppose it. He also expressed the need for a political group pressure from other Member States. What is the Netherlands going to do to get those reluctant Member States out of line? And what will the Netherlands do to realise its own commitment to admit 5,900 refugees? Last week, the informal European summit, with the Malta Declaration, took place. Last week we drew attention to the human rights situation, in particular the rights of refugees. We have asked for security screening and selection to be properly organised and for the most vulnerable refugees to be redistributed to Europe. What is going to happen in concrete terms to get the people out of the distressing situation in the detention centres in Libya? I have read that UNHCR will be involved in the reception in Libya. What role will UNHCR have in particular? I hope it is a more important role than UNHCR currently has in Turkey. What concrete action is the European Union going to take to treat these migrants humanely rather than in those prison camps there? I'm closing up. The European Union is built on Christian core values: freedom, human dignity and tolerance. The Christian Union wants to return to its core: European cooperation to achieve peace, security and prosperity. This cooperation can only be achieved with public support. However, this support will continue to crumble if we move towards a federal Europe. It will be increased if the European Union does what it has to do. In short, working together: yes, federal state: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr Voordewind says: Europe must return to its core. How big is that core? Does the environment fall under this heading? Safety? Combating tax avoidance? Migration? Financial sector supervision? How many more examples do I have to mention of subjects that the Christian Union and we side with them believe should be covered by clear agreements and clear policies at European level? Isn't it a little misleading to keep talking about "back to the core"? Perhaps the core of what the European Union should be dealing with is very large. Would Mr Voordewind like to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u102	Yeah, I'd love to. Europe's tasks are now not limited to the core tasks, as Mr Grashoff explains. We see plans for employment. We see plans for tourism policy. There are plans for education. This is not just about coordination at university level, but also about secondary education and primary education. The competences need to be aligned. There are plans for a European pension system. There are plans for a European defence apparatus. I hope that the spokesperson of GroenLinks here as a Dutch parliamentarians will also have something to say about our own budget, our own pensions and our own education system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u103	The latter is a direct expression of this, namely that perhaps as a Dutch parliamentarians I would like to have something to say about something. Does Mr Voordewind agree with me that the real strength of a Member State could be not to make it difficult every time about its own powers, which should above all remain its own, but simply to look at what should be regulated jointly? That's a lot of stuff. I think that Mr Voordewind and I could perhaps agree on a number of examples of what we say 'do nothing with it now'. But it's the real things that we're talking about here. I name things like security, migration, and you name it. These are all matters for which the EU is essential. Why does a very serious party like the Christian Union participate in the story of making the European Union small, when it knows that it is desperately needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u104	It is precisely in order to maintain the European Union's support for the citizens and the Member States that we need to see where the European Union came from and what the strength of the European Union is. Where there are cross-border problems, you mention them: environment, terrorism, security, trade and migration, where we are working together, the European Union must act. Those are the core tasks. We are talking about far more than cross-border problems. I have given a number of examples of this. We are talking about employment, about tourism, about education, about care. That whole package of core tasks has been pushed out. The budget is increasing every year. While many Member States need to get their budgets in order, the European Union tried to expand its budget. I call a European army and European taxes. That is not the European Union that is in favour of GroenLinks, is it? We need to move on to the tasks that are now calling for our attention: security and migration, which we both stand for. But we must not move towards an expanding Europe, which takes on far too many tasks and becomes a great moloch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u105	A number of things that Mr Voordewind mentioned are not regulated at all at European level, are they not? There are undoubtedly some people who have a plan for it here and there, but you act as if that is the truth and as if the European budget is exploding. I'm so sorry, but I really don't think that's right at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u106	I can read out the Bratislava Declaration, which clearly contains unemployment plans for young people. The European Union has been working on this for a long time. Efforts are being made to harmonise tourism. I've been talking about education. Not only are the curricula of the universities coordinated, but also secondary and primary education are discussed. You do Europe. You will undoubtedly see this coming along, namely how Europe is trying to expand its core tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u107	In my view, the Bratislava plans do not say that primary education should become identical in all the European Member States. What is capable of combating unemployment is, for example, to look at people living in border regions. Their diplomas should be recognized on the other side of the border. A person living in Enschede can then work in Germany, in Münster. That's what it says. But your story, namely that the European budget is exploding, is simply nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u108	I think Mrs Maij should read the conclusions of the Bratislava Declaration. It is not only in the border regions that education needs to be coordinated; it also contains a clear plan of action on youth unemployment. I have mentioned other current cases which the European Commission has drawn to itself. Let the European Commission go back to its core tasks and let it try to do the things that it has to do and that are cross-border. In particular, let the European Council and the Member States lead the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u109	Parties like the Christian Union, the VVD and the SP always say: working together is good, but we must preserve our sovereignty. That sounds really good. But Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union is now saying that it is very bad that things are being tuned. He now finds it a major problem that things are being coordinated between countries. He pretends to be European regulation of something. Mr Voordewind is such a supporter of cooperation and coordination, isn't he? Then we should not pretend that tuning is suddenly a kind of new European moloch. You're kidding the voter, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u110	If it was about coordination, we could find each other very quickly. I am very much in favour of that. But that is different from the ideas of Mr Verhoeven and his party when it comes to creating a federal Europe. Then European taxes must be applied, then a European Minister for Finance must be created and then a European defence apparatus must be created. Those things stand for Mr Verhoeven. That's okay. That's what he's standing for. His party is very clear for a federal Europe. But our party wants to look at the core of the problems and the challenges that are coming to us. Let us do this together, but please leave all other things to the Member States! We cannot even determine the meeting location, which colleagues have just mentioned, in Europe. We pay 200 million in citizens' taxpayers' money because we don't get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u111	This story really rattles on all sides. The facts aren't right either. However, I would like to return to the point that the Christian Union considers important. Apparently, tuning a number of things isn't right either. Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u112	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr Voordewind mentioned this as an example of something that was suddenly more Europe. The Christian Union always says very clearly: we do not want this. After that, the European Commission must do its core tasks. Name one thing that the Christian Union dares to say is that it is a core task and what we are really going to regulate at European level, with a European competence, a European approach and a European success. One thing, full-bodied!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u114	I'd say read our election program! Those aren't 200 pages, which we've limited to about 100 pages. It states what Europe's core tasks are and how we see them. This, of course, has to do with the cross-border need in which the Member States must find each other. This has to do with trade, the environment, the fight against terrorism, security, migration. These are cross-border issues that we have already decided, apart from migration, that we should do together. Europe must focus its efforts on this and not on the other issues I have just mentioned. You really have to leave it to the Member States, otherwise you will run out of your own position as a parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Voordewind. You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u117	I now give the floor, apart from the list of speakers, to Mr Van Dalen on behalf of the Christian Union and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mr. Chairman. In Europe, the contrasts are increasing. Strangely enough, you can see that actually coming back in Mr Rutte's person. On the one hand, he says that we must stop dreaming about more Europe, but on the other hand he has supported Mr Guy Verhofstadt to become President of the European Parliament. Eventually he didn't get it, but there was a deal between the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. However, this deal, which was co-signed by the two groups, is the route to a federal Europe. So it is not more remarkable: in the person of the Prime Minister you can see the gap in which Europe is in return. The key question is, of course, whether it will be more or less Europe. Mr Rutte does not answer that, but I am concerned about his support for Mr Verhofstadt. After all, Mr Verhofstadt is a fanatic. To every question that is asked about Europe, he gives only one answer: more Europe. That is an outdated and old-fashioned concept. Certainly, after the Second World War it was useful to have a free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, but if you still fully believe that, then you have missed what has happened in recent years. Ask the drivers who are dealing with strangle and flex contracts. Free movement of workers? No way! Ask the multinationals who sometimes pay less taxes than the citizens. Free movement of capital? No way! So it's time for us to choose and the first choice that has to be made, including by this Chamber, is about the Five Presidents' Plan. That plan is a route to a political union in monetary, fiscal and financial terms. We need to get this plan off the table. That's the first choice. The second choice is that we should not go along with, for example, Le Pen and Wilders, because they have only one solution when it comes to Europe, namely blowing up Europe; no more EU. That's the kid with the bathwater toss. You shouldn't. That is why I am here this afternoon in favour of a Europe of common sense, the third way. What does Europe look like in a few regions? First of all, Mr Koenders wrote it already in the General Journal of the European Commission, which has become far too political. We need to get rid of that. The Commission must serve Parliament and the Member States. Secondly, such a Commission could be much smaller. You can make the Commission a little bigger on a project basis, but such a Commission can be considerably smaller than it is today. Thirdly, for some, Europe is more, more, more, but we see with the Brexit that this is not at all self-evident. That is why we also need exit criteria for countries to leave the EU or from the euro area. Fourthly, let us introduce a geographical criterion if we are already thinking about another Europe. A country with half its territory within the European Union may become a member of the European Union. That way, we will forever exclude Turkey and Russia. And last but not least: a stop to further integration. It is now a matter of implementing and complying with the agreements we have made. Think of the Stability and Growth Pact. Countless times that's been violated. Now let's finally do what we agreed on, and that means choosing. Choosing a Europe of common sense, less and better. It seems to me that the Prime Minister should be able to support that. Finally, a cry of hearts on a very different subject: Brexit and fisheries. If the English Brexiteers get their way, the North Sea will go in half and the Dutch fishermen will have to leave their British fishing grounds. This will mean bankruptcy for the entire Dutch fishing industry. Both this cabinet and the next should be on top of that that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u119	Thank you. By way of derogation from the order on the list of speakers, I now give the floor to Mr Eickhout on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u120	Mr. Chairman. We thought it would be a good idea to make the information contribution first. Then my colleague Rik Grashoff can ask the questions that hopefully also arise from the informative part. I want to look at where we stand. For the first time in history, it can be said that Europe is dealing with an American president who would rather see the EU fall apart than stay together, while we have a Russian president on our east side who does not respect the sovereignty of Europe's neighbours. Also for the first time, a Member State is leaving the European Union. At this crucial moment in history, European cooperation is more than ever in the interests of the Netherlands. Only in a European context can the Netherlands defend its values: openness, freedom, sustainability, respect for minorities. All these values are at stake in the new multipolar world, in which both Russia and the United States question or undermine those values. I am convinced that a vast majority of Dutch and Europeans see the added value of close European cooperation to defend these European values and to tackle cross-border problems. There is also a lot of grumpy about the EU, and rightly so. The Union has not adequately protected Europeans against the biggest financial and economic crisis since the 1930s. The EU has not been able to take away people's concerns that the wishes of multinationals are more important than the concerns of citizens. Democracy and transparency of European decisions leave too much to be desired, and too much European money is badly spent. I therefore agree with the Foreign Minister's call for a different Europe, but I do not share his analysis at all when it comes to exactly what needs to be done and who needs to change. The cabinet says: the Member States are back in the spotlight, fewer rules for businesses, complete the internal market and conclude more trade agreements tailored to business. That is not another Europe, that is business as usual. If anyone can change Brussels, it is the Member States. Brussels, that is the Minister himself, when he sits on the Council of Ministers. The Member States are in the spotlight. It is the Member States that compete at the lowest tax rate for companies. Minister Koenders writes in the AD that he, like GroenLinks, wants a minimum corporate tax rate, but in the meantime, the cabinet argued for a step-by-step route to a competitive corporate tax rate, i.e. a reduction last September. And was it not the Dutch government who asked for a delay in tackling hybrid mismatches, which will allow multinationals to benefit from this loophole for another five years to avoid tax? Is it not the Member States that challenge EU decisions to allow Starbucks and Apple to pay taxes, the Netherlands first, together with Ireland? Or take the poor air quality for Europeans, above all a cross-border problem, where Europe could have proved its added value: it is the Member States that have watered down legislation on it. Ten thousand additional deaths to satisfy the agricultural lobby: again, by the Member States. After years of austerity, the European Commission for the first time made a strong appeal to the Netherlands and Germany to pursue a broader fiscal policy, but the Member States, Germany and again the Netherlands said: no, Europe is only about austerity, not about additional investment. Another Europe will only come into sight if the Member States show that they are able to make other choices. Not pointing the finger at anonymous technocrats, but working on a different Europe, with a different European policy. Shows that Europe is capable of more than implementing the wish lists of VNO-NCW, that Europe can not only save money, but also invest, that Europe stands up to polluting or tax-evasive companies instead of rewarding them with separate courts or free allowances. If the Netherlands can use this movement in the Council, the Union will gain support and therefore strength, which the EU needs so much in times of Brexit and Trump.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr. Chairman. Member States more in the spotlight... I think my colleague Bas Eickhout has put the Netherlands in the spotlight a little bit. It's good to do that, I think: a little mirroring what that means. In fact, I would like to call on the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to follow the reasoning that a truly strong EU Member State might be a Member State that does not allow itself to be dragged into a sort of token of retention of its own powers. A truly strong Member State would be the Member State that would say very bluntly: on all matters on which you really should have joint agreements and common rules, we believe that we should be prepared to give up our autonomy for good rules in favour of the general interest in Europe. If that were the basic attitude, that would mean that the really strong Member States would be the Member States that would convince other, weaker Member States to be less cramped in transferring their own powers. After all, you are and will remain there with all of you. We are the European Union together. In that light, I did not find the comments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the AD on halving the European Parliament chic either. Not only did I not think they were chic, but I also found them very counterproductive. I hear the Minister muttering now that it's just a proposal. But it is not just a proposal, it is a proposal that he makes as Foreign Minister in a public medium on the eve of this debate together with our colleagues from the European Parliament. I didn't think it was chic and at the same time it wasn't productive. When it comes to restoring confidence in the European Union, we must at least strengthen confidence in its democratic content. I think it makes more sense to strengthen the European Parliament than to weaken it. I would remind the Minister that the European Parliament is six times smaller than our House of Representatives compared to the size of the Dutch population. So if you want to organise something about contact between MEPs and the countries from which they come, then it really can't get any smaller. If we really want to work on these core tasks, I will come back to what these core tasks are. I think that all the issues that have been mentioned so far are ultimately European regulations, directives, and that is what Parliament is getting at. In this case, it would be strange if this Parliament had little to do, which I did not understand from Mr Eickhout, because I think he is still working on these core tasks alone. In the Bratislava process, it was said that the EU should act only if it has added value. The Minister says the same thing. Of course, everyone agrees with that, so do I. Why don't we walk by a list? Environment, the Paris climate agreement. Isn't that something you have to do on a European scale? I think that's what we think. Equal pay for equal work in the right place, brought forward by the Labour Party. That is a European directive and we need to change it. There is the European agricultural policy. Some people might say, "Don't do it anymore." We will, however, agree with Grosso Modo that the European level should intervene in this regard. Foreign policy. We would like a joint answer to Putin, a joint answer to Erdogan and preferably also a joint answer to Trump. Defense. Is it not true that now, especially with Trump coming, defence and therefore intensive defence cooperation, it has become more and more a European theme? Tax avoidance, we don't know. Tax avoidance is a key European issue. That's where we're gonna have to make the profit. So it is not a question of less Europe or more Europe, but of the good Europe. For the time being, there are a lot of things to be done in good Europe that have not yet been done or have not been done. If we are committed to this, we are a strong Member State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr Grashoff is almost ready for a conclusion, so I suggest that we allow for interruptions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u123	Finally, Mr President. I would just like to mention three very briefly. When we talk about business taxation, about profit taxation, it is clear that we have to go to European legislation, both in terms of the rate or the tariff structure and in terms of the basis. When we talk about asylum policy, we will have to talk about very clear European rules on how we deal with migrants, where they can be established in Europe and in what way we defend the external border and also properly go through asylum procedures. Defence cooperation has become an excellent European theme. That defence cooperation needs to be considerably deepened and broadened. As far as we are concerned, the European army may also be mentioned on the horizon. That's not dirty. Those three points would be the first points of which my party would say: invest in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u124	The whole list of Mr Grashoff gives me the feeling that we will soon get a motion from GroenLinks to lift the Dutch parliament and simply transfer the sovereignty of the Netherlands, with the keys, towards Brussels. One of the things that wasn't even on the list yet, but what his foreman, Mr Klaver, points out, is that we, the Netherlands, have to take over the debts of other countries. It's called an expensive word "eurobonds." That's what this means. France does not fulfil its obligations and neither does Italy. There's a sky-high interest rate on their sovereign debt. Mr Grashoff's foreman now says that we must also guarantee that. That is a very strange form of solidarity that has been expressed by the left. Does Mr Grashoff really think it is a good idea that we should go through Eurobonds to pay to countries which do not comply with the agreements, which have far too high debts and pay far too much interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u125	Here a bit of a strange caricature of Eurobonds is outlined. We are absolutely in favour of Eurobonds as a means of issuing loans, government bonds, with one interest rate. There will have to be a whole system of agreements about how you behave as a country and what opportunities you have to shape your own economy. So it will not help us get rid of budgetary agreements and the like. Moreover, we would like to set up budget agreements differently than we do now, but we will never want to get rid of them. Yes, that is a form of further European integration that can be very important for further stability throughout the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u126	In ordinary Dutch this means that we have to work longer in the Netherlands, among other things to finance the debts of other countries. After all, the money has to come from somewhere. Mr Grashoff also knows that interest will rise if they fail to comply with the agreements. A lot of money has to be borrowed and so the interest rate goes up. So Mr Grashoff says that we in the Netherlands need to work longer to finance the higher interest rates that the Netherlands is going to pay. That is the message from Mr Grashoff, Mr Klaver, Mr van GroenLinks, to the Dutch hardworking worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u127	This is total bullshit, really total bullshit. Maybe we should spend another hour together at the pub to see how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u128	That's not an answer, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u129	It just doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u130	That's how this works!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr Monasch is tying things up here that cannot be tied at all. He knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u132	When everyone's shouted out in the hall, I'm curious about what's going to happen next. We also believe, of course, that cooperation is needed in the area of the environment and nature, but it always feels as if GroenLinks is putting Europe as a kind of holy partner in cooperation. At the same time, the same Europe undermines the efforts we all need to make for climate and nature with the maled free internal market, the production objective and the growth agenda. Especially in the field of agriculture, Europe undermines just about everything we try to do for nature and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u133	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u134	I wonder exactly how GroenLinks sees this: on the one hand, the EU's achievements are jointly agreed and, on the other hand, the daily reality, in which everything that nature and the environment need is thwarted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u135	I'm very good at working with Mrs. Ouwehand. We agree on all kinds of issues, but when it comes to Europe there seems to be some sort of blur. May I give you an example? We had a very intense discussion about the phosphate ceiling. I believe that we are on the same side and we are saying that our livestock cannot be expanded. Then who are we gonna find on our side to take a crack at that? The European Commission and European legislation in the field of phosphate. This is one example. I do not think the President will allow me to do so, but I can give you an hour of examples of European rules in favour of the environment, climate and biodiversity, from the Birds and Habitats Directives to fishing quotas in the North Sea. It can all be better. That is what we are fighting for, and that is what my colleagues in the European Parliament are fighting for. Mr Bas Eickhout is perhaps one of the most fanatical advocates of a sharp European environmental policy. Eventually, we're just gonna have to win it there. If we don't win it there, we lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u136	I thought we had a meeting on the phosphate ceiling until 5:15 in the morning. Mrs. Ouwehand, you were there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u137	Yes, Chairman, I know all about it! I find it a bit annoying that I think I asked a reasonable question and that Mr Grashoff, on behalf of GroenLinks, says that I am getting a haze. I'm really challenging GroenLinks to reflect on it. Of course, it is already a disgrace that our dairy herd should allow us to pollute more than European countries at all. Let us stick to the example of the phosphate ceiling. 170,000 cows now have to go to slaughter prematurely, many of which are likely to be pregnant. Europe says that the Netherlands must not make demands...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u138	And now the question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u139	... to the agreed slaughter regulation to prevent the slaughter of pregnant animals, even though we know that this is accompanied by serious animal suffering. So it is true that we can make good agreements in Europe, but there is also enormous pressure from the free market and from the constraints that Europe itself imposes on Member States to take action. GroenLinks simply does not address the question about that contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u140	I made a little mean joke about the blur in front of the Animal Party, but I also went into the very substance of Mrs Ouwehand's interruption. I gave a very precise example which shows that we can also have European rules on our side in a number of areas. I think that Mr Eickhout, like no other speaker, has indicated that the European Union is indeed too much of a business defender. Mrs Ouwehand and I agree, but if we want to change that, the worst option is less Europe and the best option is to get the right rules in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr. Chairman. A comment from our Prime Minister recently kicked it to the Pronunciation section of the week in the Reformatorisch Dagblad. I can assure you that is an honourable mention. The comment has already been quoted. It says: "Sometimes I think I might as well bark at the moon." When I read that remark in the context in which it was made, I got a feeling of compassion. You see it in front of you, that image of that faithful, yet somewhat naive quadruped who in the middle of the night raises his head and rages against that strange, ever-present celestial body. You appreciate the waking breast of the animal, but you want to make him understand that his persistent barking is useless because the moon remains inaccessible far away. At the same time, when you realize what situation the Prime Minister really describes, there is also a sense of admiration and respect. As one of the few Heads of State or Government, if I may remain in the visual language for a moment, if decisions are taken or are threatened at EU level, which are ultimately feared to be counterproductive. In this sense, our Prime Minister's statement is essentially a correct metaphor. It touches on the painful reality that the EU is everywhere, but at the same time seems untouchable. The government advocates a third road between protectionism and federalism. The government talks about "give maximum space to the individual identities and institutions of Member States." Can the Prime Minister indicate how this should take concrete form? In addition, what are the chances that this third road will actually lead to a change in the direction of the EU? As the SGP pointed out earlier, concerns about the EU's interference and democratic legitimacy, as well as about the instability of the euro, are still not sufficiently recognised. The government rightly points out that the committee's ambition to focus on key issues really needs to be translated into action. To what extent is this now the case? In view of the plans for standardised pension products, a European OM, an EU defence, European Finance and Foreign Ministers, a few others have been mentioned by my fellow Members. They're not realities, but they're proposed plans. So far, it has not penetrated the EU's regions that the mere suggestion of these plans is a powerful source of mistrust against the EU. The government expresses the need for an intelligent combination of national sovereignty, freedom of democracy and integration into the world economy. I refer to the government's letter. Can the cabinet give an assessment of the extent to which this intelligent combination is now present or approaching? To what extent is this an air castle or something we'd like? Or are there any signs that we're actually heading towards that intelligent combination? Finally, it is sometimes said that barking dogs do not bite. It is indeed a good thing to avoid that. That is why I am asking how and when the government will show European leaders that we are done with all those test balloons that are being let down. When are the Dutch going to notice that we are going to stand on the brakes, to maintain a healthy EU? Has the Netherlands, as I requested in my motion of last week, really distanced itself from the many recent ambitious plans from Brussels? I'd like a response. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Chairman. Peace and prosperity. These are, of course, beautiful ideals, but perhaps not as credible as you look at the European Commission's agenda and the actual actions of the European Union. Extensive free trade at the expense of everything that is vulnerable? Deregulation and the pursuit of a federal Union in which more and more powers move to Brussels? Abuse Trump and Putin to push through their own agenda for a federal union? Mwah. Or kicking burgers in there, I don't know. The agenda in which national parliaments, the direct representatives of the people, have not much to say. The European Public Prosecutor's Office, defence, the sacred euro: they are doing more harm than good to the European project. European cooperation is a wonderful idea, it must be, but you must be critical of its design. One of the basic factors in the Euro-criticism of the Party for Animals is that maled growth agenda of the European Union. Infinite economic growth on a planet that simply doesn't grow along is impossible and is also the death blow for all the ambitions you have with regard to protecting nature, the environment, animal welfare and labour migrants. More market and less democracy should then be the response of the European Union to Trump, a European Union in which the internal market is at the forefront. As a result of labour migration, repression and exploitation, scaling up and the disappearance of family farmers, the European Union is full of new trade agreements, as much and as quickly as possible. Trade agreements that, like TTIP, will undermine our environmental and animal welfare standards and turn a blind eye to SMEs and sustainable agriculture. The deal with Japan is almost done, that's how we read. What was it again about addressing the whale hunt, which we condemn neatly, but to which we seem to have no consequences? Take CETA, the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. Why would it be obvious to conclude such an agreement? If we agree in Paris that climate change is the most important thing we will have to tackle, why conclude a free trade agreement that will make it impossible to achieve the goals for the time being? Tar sand oil is one of the most polluting fossil fuels in the world. Why does Europe open its doors to this? Why do we want to export milk to Canada when we know that dairy farming is one of the most important operators of a healthy climate? None of that is obvious. The sad thing is that despite the climate promise, despite the European Union's environmental ambitions, the growth agenda and free trade prevail, making these ambitions impossible. The free trade agenda goes hand in hand with the deregulation agenda. Don't think of strict rules for dangerous, hormone-distorting substances. That was agreed in 2009, but the free trade agreements were more important. The European Commission has said to countries like Argentina and Canada: do not be afraid, we are not going to impose such stringent environmental requirements that free trade is at risk with you. In 2013, the European Union also agreed that 20% of the unscathed budget would be spent on climate action, an important agreement. The Party for Animals was very much in favour of doing so. Turns out what? The European Court of Auditors has checked it again: that agreement is simply not being complied with. In the field of agriculture, in particular, the objectives are not met. In the light of the Paris climate agreement, will the European Commission and the European Councils now comply with this agreement that we made in 2013? No, let's leave things the way they are. If Europe really wants to become a crucial player in combating climate change, which the Animal Party would strongly support, then it is: stop placing everything above growth and trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr. Chairman. "The British departure forces the Member States to take a critical reflection..." a critical self-reflection "... about the state of the Union," which this cabinet writes in the preparatory letter on the State of the European Union. I am in Brussels every day, but the critical reflection this cabinet is talking about is far from there. Instead of taking the voice of the British people to heart, many people in Brussels are only asking one question: how can we get rid of these British people as quickly as possible and how can we punish them as hard as possible for their stupid decision? A typical case of ostrich politics. Let me give another example: Ukraine. In Brussels the referendum was hoarded. It wasn't taken seriously. But a majority of the Dutch voted against. Nevertheless, the Ukraine Association Treaty continues. Is that the critical reflection this cabinet is talking about? The Ukraine referendum and the Brexit are clear signs that citizens are not waiting for more free trade and more Europe. Meanwhile, Brussels continues. Brussels goes to extremes to pursue trade agreements such as TTIP. Brussels negotiates a free trade agreement with the whalers from Japan and, if it gets the chance, pushes through the controversial CETA next week. As the west side of the European house of cards collapses, Brussels continues to negotiate with the east, with candidate countries such as Serbia, Albania and even with Turkey. I wonder if that's the critical self-reflection this cabinet is referring to. Enlargement blindness and the obsession with macro-economic growth have completely distracted attention in Brussels from what really should be about: the welfare of humans and animals and the future and the viability of our planet. Ellen long animal transports continue throughout Europe, often for days, sometimes ending in North Africa, Israel, Turkey, Lebanon. A lot of animals don't even make it to the finish line. The animals that make it to the finish line are slaughtered consciously. Brussels does nothing. What does the Netherlands do? A lot of those cattle trucks are from here. Those cattle trucks are just from the Netherlands. Our country is proud to be the world's second exporter of agricultural products. We are not just talking about meat and tomatoes; we are also talking about live animals. I wonder if this is the self-reflection this cabinet is talking about. Then there is the fisheries policy. The ocean looting continues. 90% of all fish species are overfished and remain overfished. Attempted to counter that being smothered in the bud with the help of this cabinet. The Netherlands is leading the lobby in Brussels to facilitate and legalise overfishing. Like the Eurocrats in Brussels, the Minister will say: yes, there are more pressing problems than the future of our planet; the economy needs to grow and the internal market needs to expand. But who's gonna get better? In particular, multinationals such as Monsanto, Starbucks and countless others benefit from Europe's open house policy. The Netherlands also plays a dubious role as a tax haven in the polder. If Brussels is only concerned with the pleasures of these giants and multinationals, and if the wishes and needs of people, animals, nature and the environment are forgotten, then it is not surprising that the European Union's support for the people is lost. I also believe that European agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr. Chairman. Like my colleague Verhoeven, I would almost like to say: see the website www.neuwewegen.nu or the article in ThePostOnline, where my contribution is mentioned, because I have to do it here in a minute. The most important point I would like to draw attention to is the message that Mr Rutte and colleagues must take an oath of loyalty to the European Union. Now I think that cooperation in Europe is something fantastic, but an oath of loyalty in a marriage that has been in existence for 60 years, where one of the biggest children wants to finally leave the house, in which we also have a couple of shoulders, or children we now say: if we could have prevented it, we would not have wanted them in it... It is the question whether we should take an oath at the moment. We have problems with labour migration; we have problems with tax benefits for large companies such as Apple and Starbucks; we have problems with the monetary financing of the ECB that undermines our pension system; we have problems with how we treat refugees in solidarity with each other. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: is this really the time for an oath of loyalty? Should we not first talk again about what we stand for together, not with Heads of Government, but with the population, not about us and without us, but just by involving the population, before we keep rambling on? Can't we change that path? Finally, I have two very brief questions for the Foreign Minister. I thought it was an extremely interesting article, no matter how discussed within the parties. That's just fascinating. I have two questions. The Minister is talking about a halving of Parliament. How does he look at the double mandate? Many say that the European Commission should be smaller. Shouldn't that just become an administrative apparatus, which is clearly under the direction of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u145	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u146	Madam President. I would like to make a few introductory remarks. Then I will say a few things about Europe, possible changes in the structure or task package, and Brexit. Then I will answer a single separate question. Mr Koenders will answer the other questions. Today we are preparing the State of the European Union. We can conclude that a great deal has changed in a year, including within the European Union. Of course, we all hoped that the British would stay with us. We now know that this is not the case. There's gonna be a Brexit. The precise consequences of this can hardly be predicted, but it is certain that a British departure will hurt, both in Britain and here. With Donald Trump as the new President of the United States, our main partner seems to be heading in a different direction in some areas than before. There is no doubt about the importance of the transatlantic relationship, but that relationship is changing seems to be changing at the moment. This applies to the European Union, but also to NATO, where, for example, Member States will be asked to speed up compliance with the NATO standard. Of course, we are still faced with the devastating civil war in Syria, with terrorist attacks, both far away and close by, with the issues surrounding the ongoing migratory flows from currently mainly North African countries and with the complex relationship with President Putin's aggressive Russia. In short, there's really something going on in the world. There is a great deal of instability, and the role of the government is that this government sees that and so I see that it is also personal to work for the Netherlands in that unstable world for stability and security. This leads to a rethink of the position of the European Union. This was also widely shared at the World Economic Forum in Davos a few weeks ago and at the European Union Summit in Malta last Friday. What do these changes mean? First of all, Europe will have to stand on its own two feet. We can't lean too heavily on our traditional partners. In fact, within the European Union, an important partner is leaving, namely Britain. It means that we will increasingly have to stop our own pants in Europe, including in the field of defence. In that sense, what has happened in recent months is an absolute wake-up call. It also means that, if it is to be effective, Europe will have to concentrate even more on its main tasks, on the most important things it must take care of. My belief has grown further that, given the instability in the world and our joint task to bring stability and security here, it has a great added value for the Netherlands to be a member of NATO and to be a member of the European Union, especially in these days. This is not only of economic importance, it is also important for our security. Being embedded in international structures offers security for a country like the Netherlands. It means, however, that we must work to ensure that these structures are successful, to ensure that they deal with their core tasks: security, jobs, migration and protection of our external borders. Europe is simply of fundamental importance in these areas. This means that we should not waste our energy on the sidelines, especially when it really comes to it. Against that background, a lot of questions have been asked. Many speeches had a more reflective character. I'll try to answer some of them. I shall, among other things, address the question of how we see the future of the European Union. I said a few things about it. The Netherlands is a small country with a very open economy. After Singapore and some states, the Netherlands is the country with the most open economy in the world. The Netherlands has taken into account both security and economic importance in this constructive cooperation. We're not an island. This means that we must ensure that we are truly strong in Europe. One calls it a third way, others put beautiful labels on it. I'll leave that for the speakers. In this context, there has also been a request for leading groups. I'm not into leading groups when they're going the wrong way. If the Visegrád-4 do not implement the migration agreements, then that is not good. However, you can seek cooperation in Europe. The euro area is in itself a leading group. It can also be attractive to work together on other parts of Europe, even if it is just lobbying or, sometimes, concrete. That's also in the joint Benelux paper. Take the digital single market. Take the issue of the internal market for services or services, which is still extremely bad in Europe. Take the fact that, under French pressure, the European Commission has come up with the proposal to stop free flow of data and thus, in fact, brings the digital single market a lot further away. That is bad for the Netherlands and bad for Europe. For such matters, it may be appropriate to look in Europe, either lobbying or actually cooperating, for opportunities to accelerate. As far as we are concerned, this does not lead to a change in the Treaty in the short or medium term, because that brings with it its own dynamism. You know our position: we think we should avoid it. A report has been published by the Rabobank, which states that we should not continue to muddle and that a departure from the European Union will lead to very serious damage to the Dutch economy. I agree. I will fight in this job to the last degree against the forces that are trying to get the Netherlands out of the European Union, because the damage to our country, both in terms of security and from the economic point of view, will not be seen. I think Mr Mulder's example of the port of Rotterdam was perfectly chosen. We have been asked what this means for the effectiveness of Dutch action in the European Union. A number of studies have been carried out, including by the European Council on Foreign Relations, which from June 2016 to January 2017 called the Netherlands primarily a coalition builder in Europe. I think we recognise this from our national policies; we are always looking for majorities and somehow we seem to be trying to do so in Europe. For us that is quite natural, for others that is sometimes striking. Apparently, according to these external experts, we play this role. The Development Cooperation and Policy Review Inspection has carried out a study on the added value of multilateral and bilateral action in the European Union between 2008 and 2012. The report corresponds to what the European Council on Foreign Relations concluded. In 2005, there was the report by Mr Van Voorst tot Voorst of the Council of State, entitled "Sturting EU Affairs," which also discussed the priority and importance of a proactive attitude in the European Union. I have recognised this as a strong point of the Netherlands. I think we're gonna do the same. They also asked about the Five Presidents' Report. We have talked about this a number of times in this Chamber. You know that the cabinet cannot agree with many elements of that Five President's Report, certainly not in the elements that move towards Eurobonds, or towards a European Finance Minister and that type of thing. Mr. President, thank you very much. You did it subtlely, yet so beautifully again that I wanted to say it explicitly. Mr Bishop of the SGP referred to the transfer of powers and subsidiarity. We have also had a great deal of discussion here. The view of this cabinet is that we must do our job within the existing institutional frameworks. We therefore disagree with the Group of the European People's Party, to which the CDA belongs, which has actually said that there must be a situation in which the Council is a sort of senate, the Commission becomes the government and Parliament becomes the institutional parliament of the European Union. I am sure you will remember Margaret Thatcher's speech from 1990. That is not the line of the Dutch government. This seems to us to be a bad thing. However, it is important for the Commission to focus on its core tasks: to monitor the European acquit; to monitor the joint agreements; that it is not political, but primarily executive, initiating and therefore institutional. The European Council is the steering body of the European Union. Parliament has its own tasks again. The national parliaments are very important in this respect, because we are having this debate here for a reason. I'll get to the Brexit. I'll say a few things about it, though I can philosophize about it endlessly. A range of possibilities is coming towards us, but we can only really say something about it after the triggering, the start, of Article 50. That may be at the beginning of March, but today came the news from London that it will be at the end of March. We're not going over it, so we'll wait and see. After that, the European Council will have to comment on how we will conduct the negotiations. I believe that today we discussed with Parliament how it is involved in this. That happened earlier today. In any case, the three main themes will be discussed, namely the division of property, the possible transitional measures and the future relationship. I very much agree with those who say that it is important to have rapid clarity, clarity, on the position of Europeans in the UK and British people in the rest of the European Union. It would be nice if this could stay out of the negotiations where you have to consider the different interests, if it could be a separate chapter. I think that's very important. How do we prepare ourselves? The Dutch interest is leading. Against our wishes, the UK is leaving the European Union. We will play our part in Europe in the Dutch interest. So we will map out the Dutch interests and the European force field, build coalitions, as we are used to, and prepare ourselves for a scenario in which no timely agreement is reached and possible disruptions occur in a British departure. Those are all the preparations we have to make. We also note, of course, that there is interest at the moment from British financial institutions based in London but considering coming to other parts of the European Union. There are conversations with that. In doing so, we look very closely at Dutch interests. Lodewijk Asscher, the Minister for Social Affairs, said that no agreement can be reached between the EU and the UK if there are no measures to combat tax avoidance. He has said this more in his role as party leader of the PvdA, at least that is how I understood it, and I think he has also confirmed this than in his role as minister. We can do that during this period. He often gets questions about this, in connection with the unity of cabinet policy. The Chamber will understand that, in election time, it is inevitable that the unity of cabinet policy is a little less firm than usual, but that the cabinet still has a good policy. Just wait and see what we come up with tomorrow morning, even if it is not on this subject. Asscher and I and the whole cabinet agree on the overall commitment towards the UK, but this particular link is not currently a cabinet policy. It might be in the future, but it is not at the moment. Of course, we need to see if we can find new allies. Now that the power of the UK is falling into the triangle of Great Britain, Germany and France, it is very important for the Netherlands to look for partners who favour a more etatical, state-dominated Europe vis-à-vis the Europe of free trade, the internal market and the strengthening of the internal market. We want to maintain that last aspect. We want the social market economy that we have, but with a competitive force in it. So we will be looking for allies in the near future. This could be about the Brexit negotiations, for example. These include countries which can also be economically affected, such as Belgium, in particular Flanders, Ireland and Denmark. That process of coalition formation is obviously going on. For example, coalition formation under the EU-27 could also be concerned with the search for similar countries on the themes I mentioned earlier. These are, of course, the Benelux countries. Of course, we will always maintain good relations with Germany, France, Italy and Spain, but also with countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Finland, which have similar economies and which belong to the more northern part of Europe. Yesterday my Polish colleague was visiting. Poland is part of Visegrád-4 and, in view of its relationship with Russia and the importance of trade and a Europe driven by the internal market, is indeed a partner. At the same time, we discussed this at length yesterday in Poland, with great concern about the rule of law and the intervention in the Supreme Court there. They will always be multilayered conversations, because you always have points of agreement and of difference. Another question has been asked about hybrid mismatches. I think I am going to leave it at this point, because it has been discussed in detail with the Minister for Finance. They know our commitment. Of course, we also have the guideline of the Merkies motion which has been adopted on this and we are trying to stay within that limit. The ban on monetary financing has been asked to be placed on the European agenda. I have good news, because I don't have to. That is already in the Maastricht Treaty, and we support that ban. Finally, I would like to comment on the issue of migration. We can see that the Netherlands is at the forefront of the relocation of refugees from Italy and Greece. The Chamber is also regularly informed about this. It is true that far from all Member States fulfil their obligations. This also fills us with concern, but the Netherlands is at the forefront of this at the moment, both in relative terms and in absolute numbers. I understand, of course, that the Commission is looking for measures and means to put more pressure on the Member States. We are always prepared to look at these proposals, keeping all the options open from the point of view and the principle of 'a deal is a deal'. Mr. Chairman. I think that I have answered all the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u147	The Maastricht Treaty says that there is a ban on monetary financing, but because the ECB is buying massive loans on the secondary market that are sometimes only two weeks old, it will soon have EUR 2,500 billion on the balance sheet. That is more than the central bank of the Soviet Union has ever bought. Does the Prime Minister believe that the ECB is complying with the prohibition of monetary financing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u148	I often have this discussion here with Mr Omtzigt. I think it's a lot of things, but he knows I won't talk about it now. I do not do that because under the leadership of Mr Omtzigt's party, the CDA, a sensible decision was taken when the European Central Bank was formed as it is now. It must be independent of political decision-making. This is important because we know that countries like France were indeed very interested in getting more political guidance from the ECB. Where there are concerns, of course, we will always seek means and find ways of expressing those concerns and exerting influence. But the question of the independent role of the European Central Bank from the government in public, here in the Chamber, is not in Dutch interest. I'm not gonna do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u149	Who then checks whether the European Central Bank remains within its mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u150	The European Central Bank has, of course, a governing council responsible for the whole direction of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u151	Because the Prime Minister went through his answers so quickly, he may have forgotten a question. I asked him about the significance of the new pledge of loyalty which the Heads of Government were about to take. I've asked him if that's wise at this time, now wants to get rid of part of the family's last name. Isn't it wise to solve the problems first and then see how to proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u152	I don't know where that came from, but there won't be an oath of loyalty. At least I'm not going to swear. So we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u153	That is an important point, because it is stated everywhere that in March...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u154	If we had two fingers in the air...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u155	That's very good. This means that the Dutch government will not take that pledge of loyalty in March. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u156	I don't have the impression anyone else is going to. We are all just members of the European Union. We don't have to reconfirm that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr Bertema has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u158	Unless Mr Beertema comes to power, because then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u159	You can stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u160	I get to stay in this role!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u161	Well, not in that part. I've missed a few answers. I asked for another response to the agreement reached between the VVD and the CDA in exchange for Verhofstadt's commitment to support the Christian Democratic candidate, then to go along with that federal vision. I'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u162	Do you want me to answer that question right away? Otherwise, I'm gonna have to write down the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u163	But if I don't, I'm gonna run out of interruptions. I'd like to ask my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u164	I would ask Mr Beertema to ask his questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u165	I also had a question about the appreciation of the statements on what nationalism actually is. Does that indeed automatically lead to a Holocaust in the view of your Mr Verhofstadt? Or is it more our view that nationalism is based on shared values? I like to hear a reflection on that. Finally, I would like to respond to those 60 million immigrants who would be needed, by legal means, to save the European economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u166	The government does not support that last point. In fact, we think that's total bullshit. I come to Mr Beertema's first point. I have been informed that the VVD in the European Parliament is opposed to these proposals. She will also vote against it. I have already forgotten the second point. That is what happens when too many questions are asked at the same time. Oh, I remember. It's about nationalism. I am not Mr Verhofstadt's dream reader here. I really leave that view to Mr Verhofstadt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u167	There are a lot of differences between Brussels and The Hague, given the views of the Prime Minister, the views of the VVD and the views of ALDE. That's the fog we're all walking around in like blind people. It is not for the Prime Minister's good that he does not go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u168	The last thing I want is for us to leave this debate in the fog and get Mr Beertema into trouble and get restless; we should not have that. Let me say again: I have been informed that the VVD in the European Parliament is opposed to the proposals made in the context of the cooperation sought between ALDE and the EPP. So she's against that. I think Mr Beertema is pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u169	Madam President. I would like to thank the Members of the House of Representatives and the Members of the European Parliament for their first-term questions and comments. This debate will come at a very important time. You have a minister who is convinced of the European Union and who is in favour of it. I am convinced of the importance of European cooperation for the Netherlands. I think this debate is taking place at a turning point in international and European politics. We have therefore clearly described in the State of the Union that Europe must perform better and protect it. I think that has often been the subject of today's debate. When it comes to the safety of the Netherlands and the jobs of the Dutch, we have the most important negotiating table in Europe. A chair at the table is a matter of national importance for the Netherlands; let there be no misunderstanding about that. I think it's a very bad time for defeatism. It is not a dream image, but it is a very concrete concern of our citizens in a world that is very unstable. That is why we should sit at the table right now and come up with ideas, which are about defending and renewing. Those two things belong together. We must defend the interests of the European Union, as well as the interests of our economy and our security. It is also important to invest in the future of the European Union in matters such as social protection. I shall come back to that in a moment, because a number of questions have been asked. I think it is important that these two elements should be addressed: defending and renewing. Defence is also necessary at this time because Europe is sometimes played apart by third parties, at least it lets itself be separated. Following the Bratislava discussions, we have an interest in trying to make Europe effective, without defeatism but with great realism, given the great questions of our citizens. Those things have been mentioned. We can further underpin these with very specific proposals, whether it is about migration and asylum, strengthening foreign policy or strengthening cooperation in the field of terrorism and security. I will return to the specific questions on this subject in a moment. It is important, however, to name those two elements. When I listen to the PVV like that, I hear a story that amounts to Russian roulette with our jobs. I just heard the questions about the Rotterdamsee port. Of course, it's very dangerous. If you do not have an answer to the simple question of what it means for employment in the Netherlands, you really have a big problem. Let us keep what is needed: the internal market, the cooperation and the growth of jobs related to it. I would like to point out this: do not defend it against everything, but defend it against a Russian roulette, which is not in the interests of our citizens and our workers. I think it's very unwise. At the same time, we must be open to change and innovation. I think this belongs at the heart of the European debate. I notice, of course, in this Chamber that there are a lot of different views about this. D66 and GroenLinks want to go very far with treaty changes at the moment, while we are just in a Brexit discussion. It will therefore at least have to wait until 2019, if necessary. It means you can't wait for that. At the moment, we need to strengthen institutions and policies in relation to the issues at stake. There are other parties, I've just mentioned them playing Russian roulette. The so-called third road has also been mentioned. I don't really like that term, but I do think it's important to name it. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Dutch government is in favour of the so-called community method, which in English is called "the community approach." This includes the important role of the Commission in terms of initiative, the important role of the European Parliament as a co-decision-maker, and I shall come back to the questions that have been raised about this and the role of the national states. That's not always easy to explain, because it's a formula called sui generis, as it's called in expensive words. There is a whole debate surrounding it, about which people have great concerns, because it automatically leads to a lack of transparency. Sometimes there is autonomy between initiatives in Brussels and sometimes lack of effectiveness. I believe that both the defence and the renewal agenda are important. I believe that this is also possible within the existing treaties. In today's debate, I also see how, at a very complicated time in Europe, surrounded by a ring of instability, without defeatism, as effective as possible, but also as self-critical as possible. I have no problem with being self-critical about that, too. What I notice in the debates is that we are blaming each other institutionally very quickly. If you say anything about another institution, even if it's just an idea, you have the idea that it's very dangerous right away. I say to you here: of course there is a great responsibility for the Member States. It is very difficult to say that the Member States are responsible for something. I don't understand that at all. Member States have interests. They are democratically controlled in their own country. They take positions and they should do the same. The importance of the national state is therefore essential and even more essential when Europe has to take more responsibility for matters other than ten, fifteen or twenty years ago. These are matters which are very closely linked to national sovereignty. For example, it is a question of national security or defence. These are matters in which the national state is indeed essential, but certainly not the only player. I think that is what is at the heart of the debate. Something was said about the Detachment Directive at some point. Is that the fault of Mr Asscher? Has he drawn enough, is it the Commission who is doing very well or would it have been arranged long ago if the European Parliament had been involved? It is, of course, a much more intelligent interplay. That is the essence of our experience as President of the European Union. This means that Member States should do better when it comes to implementation. I would like to mention the situation that is currently being discussed in Greece and migration. People should then stand up for national contributions and for support for officials in Greece. Then you must ensure that responsibility is taken, because that is where our limits are now. That is something that Member States are right to address. When it comes to the directive that I have just referred to, it is of course a matter of unity. This week I had a very interesting discussion in the European Parliament led by D66 on the rule of law. Of course, you should have an institutional answer to that. We are now discussing this in the Council. The Commission is working on Poland. At the same time, we know that a lot of Member States and political parties are different. Let us then jointly initiate a movement for that rule of law. This also applies to equal pay for equal work in the same country. So you have to work together for that. So let us not automatically say that our own institution is sacred. I have really been to the European Parliament as President-in-Office of the Council and you can believe it or not, but a lot of people have told me that we are not getting very many proposals; the European Commission's strategic agenda is so important that we simply have much less to do. In this context, it has been said that if it is, it would be a proposal, just as D66 is now saying that it wants a smaller Commission. Apparently, the problem is that if there are more people in the Commission, that leads to an independent motivation to do things. But let's just be clear about that and the proposals end up together and see what's effective. I am a minister who stands for Europe and its democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yes, there must certainly be an open way to talk about the institutions, without dogmas. I fully agree with that. Congratulations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the European Parliament this week for his contribution to the rule of law, the Fundamental Rights Pact. I just said that. That's very positive. And yes, there is also a third road. The Foreign Minister says: we have to halve the European Parliament. Then the European Parliament says: we have to halve the Council of Ministers. We say: you have to make the Commission smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u171	I didn't say that, just for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u172	So everyone has their own vision on that. That's a good thing, too. But I have a serious point. Mr Mulder always says: do not come up with all the ideas that make us restless again. The idea that the Foreign Minister came up with last week was 'that we could halve Parliament'. Last week we said not to talk about that, but now I would like to hear exactly how that was meant. After all, it does seem like an idea of "we're going to halve it" while the Minister now says it wasn't meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u173	What I really hate is that we talk about imaging in politics and that this is just a little idea that has been abandoned. I suggest that you listen now and do not try to score for a moment with 'is that a bad idea again' and'should I have said that now' and'should you have said something about the Commission'. We are in a serious debate here at a time when Europe is at a turning point in terms of how we can make our institutions work better. I have put forward a number of proposals for this. I never said that the European Parliament should be halved. I'm not going to go back on anything. However, I do like it when people read a piece. That piece is 90% about other things. It has been said about all the institutions that, as they now function, they have a risk in them. It says that if the European Parliament thinks that they have too little to do, it could be a solution. It is not yet on the agenda, I am not in favour of it for the time being, and it should be subject to a treaty amendment, but there are now a large number of parliamentarians for the United Kingdom and I do not know whether those seats should be filled. That could now be a discussion in the European Parliament: would it make sense to fill those seats? I don't know. I think it is very important that the support and the number of people who are going to vote for the European Parliament be increased. If it doesn't have to be reduced, but through something else, that's fine. I would point out, however, that last week a lot of the things that we have just considered important are not being discussed at all. A number of other issues, such as the introduction of a compatible system for the registration of pet animals in the European Union, a free Interrail Pass for 18-year-olds and more such proposals are endlessly addressed. It's okay. I'm not in charge of that. I would just point out that where we are looking together for people's greatest concerns, not everyone should react equally irritated when you say something like 'would it be wise to do so'. This is equally true of Mr Verhoeven's proposal to the European Commission. I therefore have the impression that it is important, on the one hand, to have a Dutch representative there, even if it is from the Commission, and, on the other hand, the position of the Dutch Government is that the Commission could be smaller. We have also made this public before this Commission was discussed. An important aspect of the European Council's decision at the time was: regular evaluation. I think this is also important when it comes to the number of Commissioners. Same thing about the moving circuit. I very much appreciate what the SP Group has proposed. I think that is precisely where the question is concerned: can we not work together? I'd like to take this glove. In the European Parliament, not all political groups are in favour and not all countries are in favour. I hear shouting: a majority. A majority is beautiful, but of course it is not just a majority in the European Parliament; the Chamber is not about that at all. The point is that the Chamber must see with us how we can change that. Then you make Europe interesting for the citizen. Then it becomes a movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u174	As far as the move from Strasbourg is concerned, everyone knows that France has vetoed it. I believe that all parties in the European Parliament are opposed to this. I even remember a vote against the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u175	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u176	I should check, but I remember the PVV being the only party that wants to. I might be wrong, but I'll look into that and I'll send it to the Chamber. Excellent to talk about changing institutions, but if you think there's going to be too much legislation, you shouldn't halve the lawmaker's inspector. Then you have to halve the Commission, hence the D66 proposal. I am glad that the Minister speaks so passionately now, and at the same time the slightly bent proposal which is nuanced and withdrawn. That's just good for the discussion. It would be a pity if only four of these eight great MEPs, who are here today, were to come next year because the European Parliament was halved. The Foreign Minister must agree with me on that. And who would be the four that could come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u177	Shall I point them out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u178	And which four would be allowed to stay away? Then I'd like to hear that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u179	Mr Verhoeven is a master: he asks a question, you answer him and he immediately makes the same point again, three times. That is in itself politically sensible, but I have just pointed out how the proposal has been made. "Áls" et cetera, et cetera. Secondly, it was about improving all the institutions, and I think this is worth a serious debate. That's what I'm bringing up here. If people don't agree, fine. If we can remedy the democratic deficit in Europe in a different way, then we must certainly do so. For example, I have stressed the importance of closer cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament. An example was just mentioned. In other parliaments there is much more questioning between the national parliament and the European Parliament. There you will see members of both parliaments questioning each other in official meetings. I am not talking about that, but you might imagine that this could strengthen the link between shared sovereignty and democratic control. I am concerned about a turnout rate of the European Parliament which is so much lower than that of other parliaments. I am not saying that halving is the solution, but let us dare address the problem! Let's see how we can improve it. Mr Tang says here: I have made a number of proposals, but I have not yet been able to discuss them with the national parliament. At the heart of the matter is how to change together in Europe, and I think it is important to name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u180	It is good that the Minister now nuances a little bit what he has written in his article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u181	It's like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u182	The only concrete proposal made by the Minister on institutions is to halve the European Parliament. For the rest, it's generalities and notions that we can talk about once, but this is the only thing he makes concrete. Does the Minister just agree that it was a bit of a slip of the pen, that it was a clumsy signal at the wrong time? If he admits that, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u183	No, on the contrary. I think it was a good article. Otherwise, I wouldn't have written it. I think it was important that there were a large number of things involved, for example that Europe should take the important concerns of its citizens seriously. I have a duty as Foreign Minister, who, together with the Prime Minister, has also had the EU Presidency, to point out how we think a number of things could be improved. I would point out how it is formulated. I note that it is at least interesting that all these proposals are taken out of this proposal. Like one institution shouldn't be discussed. It is about the interplay of institutions, about concerns and about ways of increasing the influence of our citizens on Europe. I am open to any debate, including with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which has so far shown that it does not want to change anything, that it wants to Europeanize everything and that it has very little sense of why people want to have control back. This should be done at European level, it should be done at national level and it should be done better. I have some ideas for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u184	Turn of facts and a you-bowl together. It's making me grumpy already. The Minister's article contains all kinds of interesting things, which I want to talk about, but institutions are the only example he makes concrete. It's an unfortunate example. I have just tried to outline how the size of the European Parliament relates to the people of Europe. I could add that in the event of a halving, the delegation of some really small Member States in Europe would be virtually minimized. So that's just a weird proposition. It's a slip of the pen and it would adorn the minister if he just admitted it. Then I'd be happy to take a look at the rest of his article with some appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u185	We just disagree. I think it's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u186	The Minister has just made a bitter comment on the registration of pet animals. You may think that Europe should not deal with this, but it is the same Europe that degrades animals to goods, freely negotiable in the internal market, the same Europe that the countries of Eastern Europe should have with the European Union if necessary, and that now says to the Member States: you cannot restrict the import of these deadly puppies from Hungary. And this cabinet says, no, we have to deal with this illegal puppy trade. So I don't understand what the Minister is doing so lately. Either Europe allows Member States to protect animals or you say that you are going to regulate the European system, but you cannot stand here and do nothing about the few animal welfare rules that need to be put in place in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u187	I thought I was taking the direction of the Animal Party by saying, also in the light of what you said in the first term, that we should keep a number of things national, for example this animal registration. I have mentioned this as an example of something I would think of, but well, you can think differently about it, and that is very legitimate, and that is that it is not directly a key issue that we need to discuss at European level. My view is that this is not necessary. I do think that is where the importance of this type of discussion lies, and that it should not be either national or always European. I believe, for example, that trade agreements do indeed include animal welfare elements. That is also why we talk about fair trade and we want that kind of element, when it comes to standards, also in trade agreements. That is what you need to regulate at European level, because where trade is concerned, competence is European. I do not believe, however, that you should want to regulate this registration, I believe that you would agree with me. That seems very complicated and not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u188	Look, that kite doesn't go on. Europe is doing a lot of things that are severely at the disadvantage of animals. The internal market, free trade, is bad for animals. The fact that animals have been degraded to goods that can be towed throughout Europe is bad for animals. Europe's saying to Member States that they should not go further with their own animal welfare rules is bad for animals. If that weighs so heavily, Europe's task is either to give Member States the room to take measures against that single free market to protect animals or to ensure that European animal welfare rules are good enough to end, for example, the illegal breeding of pups in Hungary. It's either one or the other. You can't indulge in animal welfare rules if, on the other hand, you open the door to large-scale exploitation of animals in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u189	At least I hope I didn't give that impression. I am not at all hesitant about the importance of animal welfare, quite the contrary. This is an important subject, which you rightly ask for. The question is when to arrange something European and when not. I think we differ on that. As far as registration is concerned, I think it can be much better at national level, that it does not have to be a European policy. Where it is effective to regulate animal welfare matters at European level, we must do so. I have already mentioned a number of examples of this. Then I come to Mr Monasch's point. He asked about the double mandate. Legally, as he knows, there's no combination. A decision taken in the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage is that there are no double mandates. You can ask if it's an idea to do that. You could indeed discuss whether that would make sense. I think there are a number of considerations that make things complicated. It has just been pointed out by a number of Members that they find it very difficult to find jobs, which require presence. It would also require the work of the European Parliament and the House of Representatives to be coordinated. That is one of the reasons why this has not been discussed in previous times and has not been continued. I remember there have been discussions about it in this house. However, much can already be gained within the current Treaty by involving national parliamentarians more in EU legislation through the yellow card and through the joint meetings of MEPs and national parliamentarians. That is also a way of shaping that shared sovereignty, I think. In addition, MEPs can be explicitly involved in debates in the Chamber. Think of this debate by the State of the Union. I talked about the monthly move. Then there is transparency. The importance of control and ensuring that citizens gain a greater grip on what is happening in Brussels - that you really go into those core care tasks, so to speak - indeed requires much greater transparency. That's where the Netherlands comes in first, as we all know. In times of declining confidence and support for the European Union, I really believe that the institutions, including ourselves, have a responsibility to strive for maximum transparency and openness. We have taken the initiative with five other Member States to improve transparency in the European Union. This is indeed all the elements of the decision-making process itself, which is indeed complicated, and of the lobby, an important point which I have repeatedly discussed with the Chamber. It is also about the proposals we made during the Dutch Presidency, for example with regard to the agendas of our permanent representatives. Guidelines for a joint database of the three EU institutions have been adopted. That is, of course, real for MPs and people working on it. After that bet, am I satisfied? No, not by a long shot. There's still plenty to do. The future attitude of the cabinet follows the lines of our commitment during the Presidency. This can be done by continuing to work on all those aspects that sound quite technocratic in themselves. What's "limité"? What's "restraint"? This morning, for example, we discussed in the standing committee how we can do the important negotiations with the United Kingdom in such a way that the House of Representatives is fully involved. I think that is also essential, because without this involvement we cannot and should not do this kind of important negotiations. This also applies to informal forums, such as the Eurogroup. The Chamber has previously discussed this with me and with the Minister of Finance. Agreements have been made with the Chamber on the provision of information. Despite informal meetings, which are informal documents, the government also actively implements the obligation to provide information to the Chamber in respect of these fora under Article 68 of the Constitution. For the Eurogroup, information is provided in the same way as for formal Councils. I would also refer to the discussions on this matter in December and its report. This also applies to the Brexit; I mentioned it just now. An important point from Mr Mulder comes back to something I just mentioned: the interplay of institutions according to the Community method. That is what we are in favour of, no misunderstanding. This can only be done if you have strong Member States that trust each other. We used to have discussions in Europe about why we are so pro-European in this sense. That was, as was said before, because it is in fact the salvation of nation states. A well-known book by an English writer states that European integration is "the rescue of the nation state." It is not a question of giving up national sovereignty, but of increasing its share and hence its own voice. So that means you have to trust each other. That is why I found it essential to talk in that article about the role of nation states and their strengthening. I therefore agree with what Mr Mulder said about this. He specifically asked me to raise this in the General Affairs Council. We did. We are working on a number of programmes, including the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Programme. That is very specific assistance. Of course, it is often about some boring things, but they are essential to ensure that we know that it is also well regulated in other Member States in terms of legislation in the areas of trade, investment, the role of trade unions and so on. Given the time, I don't go into the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u190	How much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u191	About 20 minutes. I can answer the questions a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u192	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u193	Or maybe I should skip a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u194	No, but it can be short, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u195	Let me be a little faster in answering questions about the social element of Europe. This has been addressed quite a lot in the article, on issues such as soil in taxes and so on. Those are indeed more proposals for the future. They're not from this cabinet either. The Prime Minister said I made it as a politician of the Labour Party. However, there are also matters of government policy, such as the Detachment Directive. The Chamber asked what's going on with that. I think there should indeed be a match between Commissioner, Minister, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, myself and the European Parliament. In many Member States, there has been a growing awareness that we need to take steps here. That is really essential for maintaining the basis of support. In the European Union, there is honesty, to put it bluntly, about the importance of the feeling that inequality is increasing through an agenda that is only aimed at liberalisation, in a way that leads to posting which is in fact exploitation. Malta has been President since 1 January and is now in the process of strengthening it. The negotiations are going well. I think some of it's really possible. The fact that the directive is not yet in place is anything but strange, although I would prefer it to be long ago. As the Chamber knows, this is very sensitive in Eastern Europe. They have just drawn that democratic map. The Commissioner said: no, we are moving on. We hope and are committed to ensuring that this deal comes to fruition as soon as possible. I think that the Prime Minister has already made the right point on the matter of NATO and defence cooperation. We really need an enlarged defense identity right now. I believe that is what many speakers have said. We must do this as practically and as pragmaticly as possible. Given the international environment, we should not be afraid of that. That means doing things autonomously, but not having doubles with NATO. I come to Libya and the positive or negative incentives. We have said that positive incentives are preferable. By the way, we're not ruling anything out. You always have all the instruments on the table. My own experience is that, as far as Libya is concerned, we in Europe need a huge effort in regional diplomacy in both Algeria, Morocco and Egypt and in other countries to ensure that the stability agenda comes first. It's about the most important thing. In addition, we need to strengthen the Coast Guard. This should be matched by the strengthening of IOM and UNHCR. In the direction of the Christian Union, I say that the latter plays an essential role, because we want to do so in accordance with the international human rights conventions. I myself have seen the camps in Niger to which people have returned from Libya. That is a disgrace to humanity. We really need to put an end to that flow. That is incredibly complicated, but I think Libya plays an important role in this. We're far from there. These are the starting elements of it. I think it is not only essential that this road be stopped, but also that there can be a humane return. I think that's possible, but that won't be easy. Let me say two things about prisons in Turkey. There is one thing in which I really do not agree with Mr Omtzigt. He knows that, too. We've switched that before. The European Union does not in any way support torture in Turkey. We are totally opposed to this. All these programmes focus on capacity enhancements, human rights, etc. He does have a point with regard to the CPT, the committee dealing with torture. At his request, too, I will make every effort to ensure that that report is released as soon as possible. I really hope that Turkey does. I will again urge Turkey and the Commission to do so, so that it will also be easier for the Chamber to come back to that in the coming weeks. I really point out and there must be no mistake about the fact that the European Union is not about supporting prisons where torture is taking place. It is precisely because these programmes are designed to reduce rather than increase opportunities. I think that is also our humane and moral task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u196	Were you almost...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u197	I'd quit, Mr. Chairman, but then seven questions haven't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u198	Let me give Mr Grashoff the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u199	Let me go back to a lot of sentences, because that's how it goes. Almost and passing, I felt that the Minister said that his comment on the minimum corporate tax rate was a bit personal and not cabinet policy. Now there are two motions passed in the Chamber. They are more in the area of Mr Wiebes and Mr Dijsselbloem, but they say something about this. By the way, they belong to my fellow Members, Mr Groot and Mr Van Weyenberg, so all the credits are for these people. One motion calls on the government to urge the European Commission to investigate the possible design and political feasibility of a European minimum corporate tax rate. In the other, the government is invited to continue constructive discussions on the gradual harmonisation of the basis for European income tax. Has the cabinet not yet adopted this view of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u200	I don't understand the question. I've seen those two motions. That's what my colleagues are about. If they've said they're being executed, they'll be executed. I don't know exactly what the position of that is. I just said I'm in favour of doing that. We have talked about it before, when you write in an article that the European Union must ensure that the single market and the digital market grow, it also has a responsibility to prevent a race to the bottom on a number of points. That is my view. That's what I was about to say. In addition, there are motions from the Chamber. That is what my colleagues have responded to. Undoubtedly they will do it, as far as they have said they will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u201	At least they didn't say they didn't do it. I thought there were some good things in the Minister's article, apart from a blunder about the European Parliament. I've tried to make that clear before. Only, now I find it difficult for the Minister to say: I wrote that a bit on a private title. Isn't that what the minister's name is underneath as the one who wrote it? I don't get it anymore. This is, I suppose, now the cabinet's commitment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u202	I'm sticking to what I just said. I have written an article on Europe in the light of my experience as Minister for European Affairs, also as a commitment to the future. A lot of things we've done and a lot of other things have yet to happen. I think that should be the direction. In addition, there is indeed a debate in which I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, take responsibility for cabinet policy. This means, in relation to these motions, that what my colleagues have indicated is the policy. That doesn't seem very complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u204	Then I come to Mr Tang's questions concerning the possible appointment of a new representative of the United States of America to the European Union. As far as I know, there are no intended appointments at the moment. It is therefore difficult for me to anticipate these matters. After all, there are no proposals from the US Government. Mr Verhoeven asked why the reform of the EU budget was not pursued. Soon we will be discussing this in the Chamber, next week, with Mr Dijsselbloem and myself. Of course, we're going to work for that. For example, in the negotiations on the current MFF, the Netherlands already asked for attention to be paid to the importance of modernisation, including increasing European added value. As was established during the negotiations on the mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework last autumn, we are indeed in favour of a change that also shows that the more modern elements are becoming more important. Then it's about innovation and the like. The 20% climate-related expenditure in the current MFF has been requested. We are aware of this report by the European Court of Auditors, I say to the Animal Party. I also welcome the fact that the Court of Auditors is calling for that 20% climate-related expenditure target to be met. It really is a core of a European competence to ensure that our climate improves. Sustainability is also one of the key priorities for the EU budget for the Netherlands. I don't think there's any reason to panic yet. The Commission has made calculations of climate-related expenditure so far and expectations for the coming years. This shows that the target can almost be met. In the first two years of the current MFF, the percentages were still disappointing. It was 13.6% and 17.3%. It is now 20.9% in 2016. For the next few years, too, we, and the Commission, estimate that the percentage of 20 will be reached annually. With Mrs Ouwehand, I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u205	Well, that's a little reassuring to hear that from the cabinet. I mentioned this earlier with the Secretary of State for the Environment and with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, because we are lagging behind, particularly in the area of the conversion of agricultural and fisheries subsidies to that 20% commitment to climate action by 2020. That is why I had tabled a motion to ask whether the Dutch Government could make an effort to comply with this agreement. What did I get back to my bewilderment? "Well, in the review of the common agricultural policy, we are going to raise this issue." That's after 2020. That is what you are saying: that agreement should not be respected as far as the Netherlands is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u206	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u207	Am I to understand that the cabinet is returning to that position? That would be good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u208	I think I can at least reassure Mrs Ouwehand on the issue of expenditure. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs is very motivated to change the way agricultural expenditure has been spent in the European Union so far. Mrs Ouwehand will undoubtedly continue to discuss this with him. He's working on that. He's arguing about that. In reply to Mrs Ouwehand's question, I can say that I am not pessimistic. On the contrary, I think that 20% will be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u209	You're not being warned for nothing by the Court of Auditors. If things work out, the Court of Auditors is not going to say: hey, wait a minute, we don't seem to be achieving the agreed objective. So you need to adjust the policy in the meantime. I asked the government to do that. The answer was: we do this when we review the common agricultural policy, and that is only after 2020. In other words, the Netherlands will not change; it accepts that it is as it is. And now I have to feel reassured because the minister here says: but I'm optimistic; I think we're just gonna make it. You gotta do something for that! What's the government gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u210	Those are really two different things. On the one hand, there is the reform of agricultural policy. That is one of the elements of climate-related expenditure; that is not the only thing. On the other hand, we are talking about the figures we have for achieving the 20%. Like Mrs Ouwehand, we think that is important. We are aware of that report from the European Commission. This is performed in a variety of ways within different departments and Commission departments. I see now that the percentage of 20 will be reached in 2016. In that sense, I can reassure Mrs Ouwehand, because it is about the figures. It is not so much a question of whether the Court of Auditors will mind or not; it is a question of whether they will be met. I think that is important, and the Dutch Government believes it is important. I'm coming for the whale hunt. We share the view that whaling should be banned altogether. The same applies to whaling for scientific purposes. The European Commission is in the process of including an ambitious sustainability chapter in the trade agreement with Japan. The agreements made in this chapter provide a starting point for addressing the problem of dolphin and whale hunting. Japan has so far been strongly opposed to this. We have made it clear that we do not think that is right. The European Commission has also highlighted its dissatisfaction with the negotiators. We do not therefore agree with an agreement that does not contain a sustainability chapter. That is the framework of the negotiations we are currently in. Finally, I have a question about fishing. The Netherlands is consistently committed to sustainable fisheries in Europe, precisely because we are aware that this important sector for the Netherlands only has a future if we are careful about the fish stocks and the maritime environment. As is well known, the current common fisheries policy stipulates that fish can no longer be thrown overboard. That's to minimize the waste of fish as much as possible. This is really one of those points where it is important for Europe to act. In fixing annual catch quotas, we are focusing on the use of good scientific data and on the use of the so-called precautionary principle. This now appears to be working in such a way as to minimise the risk of overfishing. I think it would be wrong for the Netherlands to deal with this carelessly. I came to the end of my answer. In my view, I have dealt with both the general problem and the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u211	I know you haven't interrupted yet, but there is also a second term, Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u212	I had asked the Foreign Minister whether he would like to have an audit carried out on whether the Netherlands is present in time in Europe and whether any improvements could be made. He's willing to promise that he's gonna do that screening?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u213	I believe that this question has been answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u214	I already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u215	You haven't been paying attention, Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u216	The IOB report and the way we deal with leading groups have been discussed. Perhaps the Prime Minister himself would like to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u217	Perhaps Mr Mulder could take a look at the Acts. If that gives rise to further questions, then... I have outlined quite extensively how all kinds of foreign parties look at the way we deal with it in Europe. I saw Mr Mulder nod enthusiastically then, I thought. I understood that, too, because I thought it was a good answer. Anyway, let's check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u218	I understand the Chamber needs a second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u219	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions. I haven't been able to read through the Acts so quickly. I have a motion here, but I don't know if I should file it. I can read it and then see what the reaction is and whether it is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u220	And then you can keep it or withdraw it. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u221	I read out the motion that has not yet been tabled: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas it is important that the Dutch influence on the European decision-making process is as great as possible; calls on the Government to carry out a review of whether the Netherlands is timely and effective in influencing the European decision-making process and to consider how this could be improved, and goes to the order of the day. This is a motion that has not yet been tabled. I will hear in a moment whether this motion which has not been tabled is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u222	Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u223	No, but the motion hasn't been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u224	Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u225	Yeah, I'll file her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the Dutch influence on the European decision-making process is as great as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a review of whether the Netherlands is timely and effective in influencing the European decision-making process and to consider how this could be improved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34648-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u226	The second motion is also a little addressed to the chairman. We're looking for allies in Europe. The Prime Minister and the Minister have said something about this. I have suggested that we, as a parliament, should do the same. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the large number of joint issues in which the Netherlands and its neighbours share an interest, such as rail and road links, cross-border work and economy, cooperation on security and European issues;]] [[expresses the wish to organise a Parliamentary German Day and a Parliamentary Belgian Day and calls on the Bureau to come forward with a proposal to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3448-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u227	Madam President. You do not serve the electorate or the citizen with so-called alternative facts or falsehoods. That's a reason for me to get a few things straight. It was discussed that the European Parliament wanted to bring 60 million Muslim immigrants, or at least immigrants, to Europe. There is a Mr Simon Busuttil who has long since left the European Parliament. He was from Malta and was in the PPE Group, unfortunately. He came up with that idea, but that idea never meant anything. Neither the Commission nor Parliament nor the Council have acted on this. It will also happen to Mr Bertema that motions of his will end up in the cemetery of history. That is also what happened with Mr Busuttil's position. Then it is true that the VVD always makes a reservation in the ALDE Group, and that is also noted, against federal plans. This means that we do not support these plans. The same applies to the pact between the PPE and ALDE. The federal story will not be supported by us. We shall vote against it when there are proposals. We have made that reservation on this pact. We have voted in favour of Mr Tajani, but that is another matter, because it was also done by parts of the Conservatives. Then there are the resolutions that are before us next week in Strasbourg on budget law. One bears the name Verhofstadt and the other Brok. We will not support it, because we are opposed to undermining the budget law of the national parliaments. All of this can be verified, because votes are public and are registered with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u228	Mr. Chairman. I think it was a nice debate, in which we have seen all the different views on Europe in the Chamber and in the Cabinet. It is clear to all that Europe is not very important, but very important, to tackle a number of common problems that we have here, such as migration and unemployment problems, yes, also youth unemployment, and security issues. I think it is very good that we are working together on this issue at European level. Then we are not talking about alternative facts, but just about what we have to do together. Thank you to the government for answering the questions about how it works with Brexit and the timetable. We have indeed discussed in detail this morning in committee with the Foreign Minister how we can be informed. However, it was also good to share a number of things here, and publicly, about it so that the Dutch viewer and listener could see and hear that the Dutch interest is at the forefront and that we also look, for example, at the position of Dutch citizens and European citizens in Britain and of British citizens in the Netherlands. I would like to touch briefly on the approach to the Posting of Workers Directive. It is really important to close the gap so that we do not have "equal pay for equal work in the same place" in the Netherlands. It simply has real gaps, which leads to unfair competition and exploitation of workers. This undermines confidence in the European Union because it is a European Union directive that makes this possible. However, it is also a directive that has been jointly implemented by Member States. It is good to hear that the Dutch authorities, the Council and, of course, Mr Jongerius in the European Parliament, Mrs De Lange, have just said that they will continue to do the hard work of amending this directive. Finally, I will deal with migration. I am reassured that the rule of law, human rights and international agreements remain proud of the agreements reached with Libya and with other countries in northern Africa. I think I heard both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister say it. I think that is also necessary in dealing with this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u229	Madam President. The debate on the State of Union is always different. I remember the first time. There was a heated debate on TTIP at the time, but TTIP is now history. This debate reflected in particular what the European Union can do in its broadest sense and with all its institutions to improve, to move towards a different Europe. That debate was also initiated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is good that this is happening in this debate, because after the Brexit and after the choice for US President Trump, it is necessary that we not only point to the other, but also look at ourselves. What I like about the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr President, is that he said that it is a debate without dogmas, that it is about all the institutions and that we must put our hands into our own hands. I'd like to be willing to do that. That seems to me to be the profit of this debate. I sincerely believe that the game of blackmail is one of the problems in Europe's decision-making and leads to confusion and division. The blackbird game isn't the way to move on. "Keep your eye on the ball," I'd say. There is much to improve on Europe. We have to keep that in mind. If we can achieve this, we can also bring Europe closer to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u230	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers. It's just a little getting used to, this debate. It's about everything and then actually about nothing. Not that it is about nothing, because within the European Union there are huge issues at stake at the moment, whether it be the euro, the problems of migration or the Brexit. However, it is still difficult to get a grip on this. I see your support, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u231	That has nothing to do with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u232	No, but I think it is with the length of this debate or the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u233	About the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u234	We need to think carefully about how the Dutch Parliament can keep a grip on these developments. That is why Mr Mulder has started working on the MFF and that is why I am working with Mr Maij on the Brexit. That grip is important. No matter how much you think about what's happening, these developments have a major impact on what's happening here. I have put a few questions to you on three points, and there have been answers to them. I never said that the EU intended to finance prisons or torture. The intention is reversed. But if that CPT report is not made public by Turkey in February, I believe that the Dutch government in the EU should immediately call for the funding of aid to Turkish prisons to be stopped. If you can't see the reports yourself, you can't know if they're being tortured there. We are therefore not working in good faith. Now the ECB. Well, it is really up to the politicians to finally assess whether the ECB is complying with its mandate. She can set any interest she wants. We can agree with all that, but now that inflation is close to 2%, emergency measures are being taken which can only be aimed at one thing: maintaining the Italian state by keeping interest rates low. But that is not what the ECB is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u235	I note that Mr Beertema does not need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u236	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government. It is always special to see our ALDE colleagues again. Mr Van Baalen just said something about our special family ties and our voting behaviour. Mr Mulder has tabled a virtual motion, but he also has the Europe Act under discussion. That's good. The Prime Minister didn't say anything weird this time, so I don't have to respond to that now either. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has nuanced his article. You could even say he cut his article in half. That's good, but what he's saying is of course true: it's good to speak openly about the institutions, and without dogmas. D66 wanted to do the same today, with our three lines of attack for a better European Union: competences on major cross-border issues, good division of labour between the Member States and the Union, reform and improve the organisation. These are the three lines along which, according to D66, we can move towards a decisive and democratic Europe, with more support. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a strong European asylum system is needed to tackle the refugee crisis jointly and to provide good reception for those fleeing war and terror;]] [[Whereas the European Commission has put forward a package of proposals for a Common European Asylum System;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up this package so that an agreement can be reached under the Maltese Presidency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that between 100,000 and 150,000 Dutch are resident in the United Kingdom;]] [[whereas EU citizens who have been living in the UK for many years are confronted with great uncertainty and sometimes even invited to leave the country quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to obtain the commitment of the British Government that the rights of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom are fully respected, even after Article 50 has entered into force;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the British Government provides full and clear information on their rights to all Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34648-6]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-346487-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u237	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for today's debate. I believe that we have discussed two basic things today: the effectiveness and legitimacy of the European Union. I like the approach taken by Minister Koenders: let us not blame each other, but see how we can work more together. It was said that Member States are not responsible for everything. That's right, but I didn't say that. I did say that the intergovernmental method is no longer working for today's challenges. I agree that we really need to look at the Community method. Now for the European Parliament. I read about myself in the paper that I was "breezing" about the minister's article. I guess I just laughed really hard, so I wasn't breeching at all. The European Parliament is not part of the executive. That is why representativeness is important. The European parliamentarians already represent more citizens than the national parliament. If you make it smaller, the representativeness is gone. The European Parliament, like the House of Representatives, is also part of the democratic legitimacy of the European Union. I would say, let's strengthen that. Finally, I look forward, hopefully, to our future cooperation on the rule of law in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr. Chairman. This debate is a bit back and forth. I would like to make a few final comments on two points. I shall begin with the issue of institutional changes. Although I think that the Foreign Minister's suggestions on the European Parliament are really not constructive and do not contribute to a solution, it would be good to talk about institutional changes as well. They won't be able to be implemented in the short term, which makes sense; let's settle the Brexit first, but it's a long time before you can talk about it, so let's talk about it now. I welcome that. I hope that we can come up with better proposals than this one. In particular, it must be about the legitimacy of the democratic process in Europe as a vehicle to restore confidence. On the substance of the matter, I note that there seems to be only a limited agenda from which the Member State wants to deploy the Netherlands. I would like to stress once again, perhaps in the second term, that matters such as defence cooperation, on which our Minister of Defence is indeed saying things, migration and profit tax and tax avoidance would be important issues. Fortunately, I can inform the Foreign Minister that in the meantime these are really the views of Parliament and that they are more in line with what he himself might have thought. That could be a start to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u239	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their reply. It's always a pleasure to experience that. I shall confine myself to re-submitting a motion, which I have modified slightly. I tabled this motion last Thursday at the informal summit in Malta, and I think this is a good time to revitalize this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the repeated suggestions for strengthening, broadening and deepening European integration;]] [[Whereas these are far-reaching proposals, including a European Public Prosecutor's Office, European Finance and Foreign Ministers, a Defence Union and fundamental institutional reforms which have a direct impact on the sovereignty of Member States;]] [[Considering that many citizens are concerned about this far-reaching European integration and that several rulers rightly pointed out that these concerns should be taken seriously;]] [[calls on the Government to accept formally or informally, in future European consultations, proposals aimed at further extending the powers of EU bodies, or proposals resulting from them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34648-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mr. Chairman. Europe has a democratic deficit and a lack of credibility, especially when it comes to combating climate change. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Commission states that the prevention of dramatic impacts due to climate change is one of the main priorities and that it is making every effort to drastically reduce greenhouse emissions;]] [[noting that the European Commission is at the same time fully committed to promoting economic growth and concluding trade agreements with other countries leading to an increase in CO emissions;]] [[Whereas the Paris Climate Agreement stipulates that global warming should be limited to a maximum of 2 ̊C, with a target value of 1,5 ̊C;]] [[Whereas combating climate change is at odds with promoting free trade, especially where free trade involves increased production and import of environmentally harmful raw materials such as shale gas and tar sand oil;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the fight against climate change is always leading over the promotion of economic growth and free trade,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2013 the European Member States and the European Parliament agreed to devote at least 20% of the EU budget for 2014-2020 to climate change measures;]] [[noting that an inquiry carried out by the European Court of Auditors shows that this objective will not be achieved by far;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure compliance with European climate agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34648-9]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34648-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mr. Chairman. If someone in Brussels doesn't understand something, we'll check the translation immediately. Since we're doing it here without translation, I'm afraid something else went wrong. I thought I might have talked to Groningen for a while. As a true Groninger, I do that once in a while. I say that because the answers to our questions were very strange. I know that people in The Hague do not understand Groningen very well. Otherwise, of course, the gas tap would have been turned off a long time ago! I would like to say something about fishing. The Dutch commitment in Brussels focuses on sustainable fishing. During the Dutch Presidency, we negotiated a Baltic Sea fishing plan for a long time. At that time, the Dutch President put a great deal of pressure on Parliament to go fishing legally. The limit laid down in the common fisheries policy is the one that is being crossed here. And why? To be able to do the same now in the North Sea. I think that's a great shame. There's really nothing sustainable about that. In response to the questions about illegal whaling, the Minister pointed out that a sustainability chapter would be added to the trade agreement with Japan. However, that sustainability chapter does not mention whaling. The Commission has confirmed this in response to questions from the Animal Party. I conclude from this that the sustainability chapter is insufficient in the eyes of this cabinet and that the cabinet cannot sign the trade agreement with Japan in this way. I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u242	That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u243	Mr. Chairman. It's 3+1+3. I'll deal with three motions. Then the Foreign Minister will answer one question. Then he'll deal with three motions. I shall begin with the Mulder motion in part No. 4. I ask Mr Mulder to hold that motion. I will put my first answer, which I thought he had heard, on paper a little more. My suggestion is that Mr Mulder should look at that answer and decide whether to put the motion to the vote. If so, this is not an absolute disaster as far as we are concerned. In the Verhoeven motion to item No. 7 The government is asked to make every effort to ensure that the British Government provides clarity as soon as possible. We cannot do that bilaterally. For the Dutch government, the rights of Dutch people are of course paramount. We stand for the rights of Dutch people. But first, Article 50 must be triggered. In the period until a possible Brexit everything remains the same. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, it must be clear to all Europeans living in the United Kingdom, including the Dutch who live there, how it will be legally and legally regulated for both EU citizens in the UK and those from the UK in the rest of the European Union. On that basis, I would advise against the motion, but of course Mr Verhoeven and the Government are entirely in agreement on the importance of such a legally binding arrangement, but at the appropriate junction, in the fullness of time and after careful consideration. I quote Yes, Minister. I come to the Bishop's motion in part No. 8. I advise against that motion because its scope is too broad. There are no proposals to extend the powers of the institutions. There are undoubtedly all kinds of figures and people who have ideas, but there are no proposals. If it were, there's always a risk of getting mixed up. Look at the EOM. The Netherlands is already opposed to that. Look at European defence. The Netherlands is for this when it comes to cooperation, but the Netherlands is against a European army. A European Minister for Foreign Affairs or Finance is not at issue at the moment. The Netherlands has also spoken out against this. At the same time, agreements can be reached at European level on the subject of the digital single market. It may indeed be necessary to make further arrangements in the area of the Services Directive or in the area of common external border surveillance. If there are proposals in these areas, I am sure I will find Mr Bishop on my side, otherwise I would not have gotten so close to the SGP in the StemWijzer. I understand what Mr Bishop wants. I sympathize very much with that thought, too. I take the first recital, the first recital, which is set out in the second paragraph of this motion, to my mind. But the operative part is too spacious. This will prevent sensible things from happening. Maybe that's even blocked. On balance, I advise against the motion in part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr. Chairman. I have one more question to answer, Mrs Hazekamp's question. By the way, I have a lot of family in Groningen. So I heard her right. We have major problems with whaling. I share those concerns. I have just checked, but there is no doubt that we are bringing this point into the negotiations with Japan. It's also on the agenda. It is very sensitive there, but that does not alter the fact that we consider this to be an important point in the negotiations that are currently taking place. I come to the Verhoeven motion in part No. 6 on the European asylum system. That's a sympathetic motion. The Netherlands regularly calls on the Presidency and also the Member States to reach an early conclusion in the Council. I therefore see this motion as a support for policy. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 9 is about the relationship between climate change, economic growth and free trade. I would like to discourage this motion because it deals with the major challenges we face. It is about sustainable economic growth, innovation and new forms of trade, which are not only free but also taking into account standards. I see it as secondary targets. Given the current wording, I advise against the motion. The same applies to the Old-Hand motion on item No. 10. Of course we agree with the operative part: '... calls on the government to work towards compliance with European climate agreements'. This is a priority policy of the Dutch Government, but I have explained earlier that we have a different view on what is exactly in the European Court of Auditors' investigation and on what the first priorities should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u245	It's too bad the Minister's been deceiving the motions. I thought climate was a priority for the European Commission and also for this government. My question concerns the free trade agreement with Japan. Just now, the Minister said that there will be a sustainability chapter. That doesn't address the whale hunt. I understand from his words that the Netherlands does not sign if the whaling is not part of the sustainability chapter. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u246	I'm not going to anticipate what we decide or don't decide. I would like to say that I think it is important that this should be included in the sustainability chapter. I will look together with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation at what this means in the final weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u247	Can the Minister inform the Chamber of the planned path, the agenda? We regularly have experience that the Chamber is faced at the very last minute with an imminent vote or with a decision in Europe. In any case, my party would like to have the opportunity to discuss this before it becomes final.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u248	I understand that and I will take it up with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I assume she feels the same way, but I'd like to take it up with her. You will be informed of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u249	Mr. Chairman. Pending the letter from the cabinet, I am holding my motion in part No. 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u250	At the request of Mr Anne Mulder, I propose his motion (34648, No. 4) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u251	I can see the consequences of the motion in part no. 5, in which Mr Anne Mulder asked the Bureau not to overlook a proposal for the organisation of a Parliamentary German Day and a Parliamentary Belgian Day. I therefore ask Mr Anne Mulder to hold this motion. I would like to discuss this first at the Bureau and then respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u252	After this commitment, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u253	At the request of Mr Anne Mulder, I propose his motion (34648, No. 5) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-9.u254	That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, the representatives of the European Parliament, the Members of Parliament and the staff, as well as those who have listened to this debate in one way or another. We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
