ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome those who are working on a selfie to the final debate with them. Indeed, it feels very strange that we are now engaged in the final debates with those who are in office. Also welcome to the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the ministers for answering, last Monday, my previous written questions of 8 August in this area. In 2016, the Netherlands had some 74,0000 international students at our universities and colleges. This is expected to be about 118,000 by 2024. The number of international students in the Netherlands is growing harder, much harder, than the number of Dutch students. In fact, it is not unreasonable to say that our university student numbers remain high, especially due to the international influx. In principle, that's okay. International students are an enrichment for every educational institution, but the framework conditions must be good. One of them is sufficient living space. Currently, there is an estimated shortage in the Netherlands of nearly 47,000 student rooms, especially concentrated in a number of cities. Although the social loan system keeps Dutch students living with their parents more and more, undoubtedly because the system is so wonderfully social, the pressure on room markets in different cities continues to remain high due to international influx. Among other things in Amsterdam, Utrecht and Groningen the pressure on the housing market is enormous. And take, for example, Wageningen, where many problems are expected in the near future. Large dormants such as SSH and DUWO give up hundreds of rooms and are unable to meet the demand, especially due to the growth of international students. International students are also more vulnerable. They don't know our rental rights, they don't have a network to fall back on, and so they're more likely to be victims of scammers and house milkers. Those stories are now legion. Students who move to a tent or sleep in their car as well. Students go to college to get a story. It points to the housing corporation. It points to the municipality, and it points back to the university. Directory in the file seems to be missing at the moment. Victims are students who can't find a place to live. A number of universities are now actively recruiting foreign students, particularly students within the European Economic Area (EEA). They do count for the calculation of the funding part of the universities that is variable. Although universities generally do not get much more money for international students, individual universities that attract many international students from the EEA do get a larger share of the same cake. That's some kind of perverse incentive for attracting international students. Does the Minister agree? The SP would like to suggest a number of things. We would like the Minister to talk to institutions to mitigate their recruitment as long as the room shortages in their cities are not addressed. We would also like to see a little more spread in the Netherlands, because you can see real peaks in a number of cities. The difference per city and institution in terms of student base is very large. Finally. Among other things, Kences pleads for a new covenant of student housing. The last action plan ended in 2016. Are both ministers prepared to commit themselves to a new covenant with all partners in the student housing chain? Can we bet on a new student housing action plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the current academic year, it seemed that foreign students in the Netherlands were forced to sleep in hostels and camping sites. That is extra unfair because foreign students often have to pay much higher tuition fees. Of course, Dutch students also experience housing problems, but they can often fall back on friends and family or live at home for a year longer. Don't get me wrong, that's just as unacceptable. GroenLinks will also continue to fight for Dutch students. But international students don't have that safety net. They are therefore even more often the victims of house milkers, as Mr Futselaar has just rightly pointed out. Mr. Chairman. To put it mildly, it's cocky, if I may put it that way, excuses if we call out how great we are internationalizing our higher education and with beautiful flyers and smooth campaigns bringing students from all over the world here, but then can't give them a roof over their heads. GroenLinks wants real internationalisation, which focuses on the importance of students. Bringing in as many foreign students as possible and letting them go through their studies because they produce more money is neither in the interest of foreign students nor in the interest of Dutch students. In addition, good housing has an economic value for all students. Education organisation Nuffic explains, for example, that international students who continue to work in the Netherlands produce more than 1.5 billion euros in the treasury. Mr. Chairman. In replying to written questions from my fellow party member Linda Voortman and myself, the Minister says: "We expect knowledge institutions to make arrangements with student hostels and municipalities in order to accommodate international students and that knowledge institutions with municipalities go to the table to see to what extent ambitions towards foreign students can be included in the municipal housing vision and performance agreements." That is a mouthful of beautiful words, but they are also words with little effectiveness. If you only express the expectation that others will sit around the table to see if they can solve an urgent problem, you may not catch the cow enough by the horns. That is why GroenLinks advocates a new national action plan for student housing. This action plan could take place within the National Platform Student Housing, where all the national partners in the field of student accommodation are already represented, including student organisations. That is why I am curious whether the Minister is prepared to ask the National Platform Student Housing to draw up a new action plan this last week. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this new plan should be about student housing in broad, because all students, both international and Dutch, deserve a roof over their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	I hear the speaker pleading for a national plan for student housing. But does he agree with me that getting student homes available and building student homes, the transformation and so on is also a local puzzle that should be picked up locally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	That's right. However, it has been shown that leaving behind is not enough. This was also apparent from previous studies and previous analyses. In answering a question, the Minister said that de facto too. Hence my call not only to leave it there, but also to ensure that the partners concerned are facilitated as much as possible in order to find a direct solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'm just looking for what the facility means, because of course we're seeing a tight spot on the entire housing market. That cut isn't just for students. We see a cut for starters, for seniors, for all kinds of groups. The problem is just the Netherlands wide. Within all population groups there is tightness. So I wonder what else we should do with a national action plan to facilitate what can't be done locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	The previous action plan was reasonably successful in addressing this particular problem. We're dealing with international students who come here temporarily. I don't think anyone wants to let them sleep in campsites. Such an action plan has added value. We have also understood from many involved partners that they are calling for a new action plan. We must argue for it and not say: we have a general problem with housing, so forget it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	One of the main reasons why we need an action plan is precisely to prevent institutions, municipalities and housing corporations from pointing to each other to solve the problem. The previous action plan has actually resulted in additional student housing. This is also a national problem, because the influx of international students is also, in some sense, national. They don't just choose an institution. They also want to go to the Netherlands. Only by looking at this nationally, can you really try to find a final solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Are we discussing rising house prices or rising rents today? No, this debate is about housing foreign students. It's a fucking debate, requested by the SP. What is our surprise now? The SP's acting a little tough. Of course, we're not used to that. The SP establishes the link between foreign students and the student housing problem in the Netherlands. The SP has also asked how many Dutch students are fishing behind the net because of the large numbers of foreign students coming here. That sounds really cool. When it comes to students, of course the SP dares, but it is also hypocritical, because the SP was so tough and critical when it comes to the many tens of thousands of lucky seekers who have come our way in recent years. If only the SP were as tough and critical when it comes to status holders who are assigned a free home with priority at the expense of the Dutch. If the SP had the backbone to do something about it, then the SP would have done the housing market a service, not just the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to find a line in Mr Kops' slightly hysterical filippica. If I understand him correctly, he says: yes, there is indeed a problem with foreign students, but it is still a fucking debate. Despite the fact that it's a bullshit debate, he's here and he's in on it. I myself do not participate in debates that I do not think make much sense. Does Mr Kops agree with me that there is a link between the large sudden increase in foreign students and the problems specific to students in the housing market? That is the rather simple question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, this is indeed a fucked-up debate. I would very much like to take part in this debate to show why it is a fucking debate. I'm trying to point out things that still matter. Then there is the second question. The answer is of course: yes, but I try to point out the hypocrisy of the SP. Indeed, linking a tight housing market, students coming here, too few homes. With status holders it is exactly the same! Status holders take precedence over a home, while Dutch people are discriminated against. But that's where I never hear the SP about it. That's what I'm pointing out. Why don't you go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Futselaar has just been here, but he may ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I forgot to thank Mr Kops for the word "tough" because I don't get it very often. So I'd like to take it. There's a problem with foreign student housing here. Does Mr Kops have a solution to the problem we are discussing today, namely a direction of what we could do to solve the problem of the lack of housing for students? I understand that Mr Kops would like to talk about other things. The PVV often talks about this subject, I think this Chamber too, but does Mr Kops have a solution to the problem of foreign student housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	I am not standing here for a minute, so if Mr Futselaar had let me finish, he would have been able to hear my solution. Secondly, I want to say that I decide what I say here and I alone. It's as simple as that. So if Mr Futselaar does not like what I am saying, then he should not have asked for this debate at all. The SP wanted this debate. We didn't have to do that. But the SP wanted a debate. Then the SP gets the same thing, including the PVV. I'm gonna fill that in the way I want it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr Kops will be surprised, but the SP does not request a debate to please the PVV. That he's sorry I interrupted him quickly, that's what you get when you talk to people right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u21	Very good comeback. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. I do not like one point very much. Mr Kops calls twice for status holders to take precedence over social housing. We have abolished that as a VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yes, Mr Koerhuis has asked this question many times, including in an AO. I just answered that at the time. My second question to Mr Koerhuis is why he is asking this question again. So just for the stage, so that people can belong to him, because that's why. Status holders are still given priority in practice. Mr Koerhuis knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr Koerhuis will be next. Then you may interrupt him. But it's the other way around now. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u26	To be honest, it was not a question, but we abolished that primacy rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u27	Oh, it was a comment. Good. I suggest that Mr Kops continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u28	Your party is abolishing so much, I say to Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u29	You're excited, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u30	Absolutely, I'm enjoying this. Colleagues offer the room for that. Mr. Chairman. As Minister Plasterk mentioned earlier in an AO, any property assigned to a status holder cannot be assigned to another. Of course. With the housing of foreign students, it is of course the same. We have a record number of foreign students in the Netherlands. The National Student Union talks about a large number of people who have not been able to find a place to live and are therefore relocated elsewhere. Look, Mr President, we've got the heart of the problem. We are talking about foreign students without housing, who are already in the Netherlands. Students who have registered for a study and then came to the Netherlands on the ticket tip, on good luck. Let us be honest: that is not very convenient, of course. Even the average holidaymaker is still well prepared for travel today, including booked accommodations. That's for only two or three weeks. Surely we can expect students to think better about that before they get on the plane? Mr. Chairman. First of all, what has been left behind in recent years must be done, i.e. adequate additions. In addition, universities and colleges of applied sciences need to stop their idiotic invitation policy for foreign students. We want enough living space, but in the first place for our own Dutch students. That is why the question to the Minister: is he willing to ensure that priority is given to Dutch students in the housing of students? All under his own guise of: a home that you assign to one, you cannot assign to the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the news in the Volkskrant of 7 September raises many questions. According to the National Student Union, 112.000 foreign students studied in the Netherlands last year. With the arrival of international students, we have found ourselves in a strange situation. We like to see the students come, but apparently they can't house. The documents that we received yesterday on this matter have made much clear, but not nearly everything. The question of who has the primary responsibility for housing these students does not come up with a clear answer. According to the Minister, the student, the student corporation, the municipalities, the universities and the colleges are all a bit responsible. In practice, this will mean that no one feels responsible and everyone looks at the other. As far as the CDA is concerned, this cannot be the case: one body must be appointed as the main responsible body. A second question to the Minister: how can this happen? Didn't anyone see this coming? Is it true that universities are indeed bringing in as many foreign students as possible and not caring about their housing? I read three reasons for the problem in the Ministers' replies, but the growth in the number of foreign students is undoubtedly the main cause. That is why we would like to hear whether institutions for students outside the EU cannot be made 100% responsible for housing. Is there anything similar to the legal system of university lectures to think of for this group of students? Surely it is impossible for universities to continue to recruit foreign students without proper housing arrangements? How does the Minister intend to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u33	Allow me to quote briefly from the new government agreement on internationalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u34	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'll paraphrase it. Maybe it'll go faster. The coalition agreement states...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u36	You need to speak in the microphone, otherwise people won't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u37	Apologies. I think we're all flu-y. Allow me to quote briefly from the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement states that there will be an internationalisation approach. The new government wants to increase the attractiveness of Dutch education for foreign students while maintaining accessibility. I wonder if my colleague's suggestions are in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yeah, I think so. I have already said in my speech that we would like to see the students, but apparently we cannot accommodate them. So that problem has to be solved. We think that should be done by those who are best able to do so. I shall come back to that later in my speech. Mr. Chairman. A few days ago, the National Monitor Student Housing, edition 2017, was published on behalf of Kences and the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. A fine report, but do we have enough of a picture of the ambitions of institutions? The projections, such as Nuffic's and Kences' housing, are based on past trends and realization figures. But that is not what institutions and their interest clubs want when it comes to internationalisation. After all, there are already universities that can no longer live without them and have very great ambitions. Will the Minister complement this report with the current ambitions of the universities? Mr. Chairman. Ministers state that the municipalities have a responsibility after all. But is the Minister aware of the fact that this particular group of house seekers is already sufficiently taken into account in municipal housing visions? Will the housing visions and ambitions of universities and colleges of higher education for foreign students be included in the projections in terms of numbers in all student cities? And finally: in our view, in every student city, including The Hague, under municipal direction, there will be a consultation table in which all interested parties will jointly answer the question of how the foreign students are housed. As far as the CDA is concerned, anyone who sees a role for themselves in this can join the so-called student hotels. Is the Minister prepared, in consultation with the Minister of OCW, both now present here, to create such consultative tables? We'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. I now give the floor to Mr Koerhuis, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. We think our knowledge-based economy is very important. We want to make universities and colleges our export product and attract many international students. Everyone wants a good and affordable home. Our own Dutch students want that, but also international students want that. The National Student Union has published that some international students could not find a home. Some would sleep in a car or in a park and others would have signed out by now and have returned to their homeland. During Rutte I, the National Student Housing Action Plan was launched. In the meantime, some 30,000 extra student homes have been built. In addition, we have further increased the offer by relaxing the points system for rentals. This makes it easier for homeowners to rent out rooms and homes. There was also broad support for this in this Chamber. But it's not just the Lower House that's picking up this glove. Many educational institutions keep student homes free for international students. There are several student hotels that offer flexibility and also focus on international students. In addition, special flexible campus contracts provide more flow in student homes. Moreover, a ruling by the canton court shows that, within the rental right, it is already possible to offer temporary rental contracts to international students because they are by definition temporary here. I ask the Minister if there is a real problem. If there is a problem, the ball lies on the one hand with municipalities. Municipalities make residential visions. And municipalities and tenant organisations make performance agreements about this with corporations. We are not going to do this as a government, because municipalities and tenant organisations can do this much better in cooperation with corporations. What better can these municipalities do now? We see, for example, that municipalities and corporations do not make enough work of flexible living and housing parts. This, too, could lead to additional housing for students. How's the Ministry gonna handle this? On the other hand, we want to further relax the rigid rental right. More opportunities for flexible and temporary rental contracts will increase the flow and supply of good and affordable rentals. International students and landlords should be able to agree on which rental and conditions they include in their rental contract. As a result, there will also be more offer of student residences. If international students want to rent something for a flexible period, they should be able to do so. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We're sitting here with a missionary minister. That is why I will not ask for further steps. I think we all recognise that there must be enough good and affordable housing. Soon we will be debating with the new ruler. Then we'll see if there's a problem, if there's a problem, if there's any follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u41	I would like to point out that there is a problem. All you have to do is look in student cities on the street. Mr Koerhuis rightly mentioned the earlier action plan, which was set up under Rutte I. I would like to ask him if he sees anything in a new action plan. The last one has worked somewhat. There's been a lot of student housing. It's obvious to do that again now. I have not seen any passage in the coalition agreement on this, so I can imagine that we will now settle it here as a Chamber so that we can proceed afterwards. Does Mr Koerhuis see anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u42	The SP is right. The National Action Plan Student Housing is a great success. With that we have indeed built some 30,000 extra student homes. However, we are having a debate today on the housing of international students. You're referring to the coalition agreement. The debate on the declaration of government will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u43	I may be weird at that, but I like to solve problems now and not at a later time. I think we have a problem. You yourself mentioned a cure that works. I suggest we use that tool that works again. In principle, that seems to me to be quite clear logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u44	The debate on the declaration of government will come later. The question of whether there is a problem, I asked the Minister. I'll wait for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every year tens of thousands of international students study in the Netherlands. They provide more diversity in universities, an additional investment in our economy and additional resources for our universities and colleges. Partly because of their presence, the level of education becomes higher. Moreover, if they continue to live here after their studies, they can make an important contribution to our society. Think about important work in healthcare, the ICT sector, technology or innovative start-ups. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the shadow side of this development. We are talking about the terrible reports in the newspapers that some international students are sleeping under a bridge. That is unacceptable to my group. Students come here not only to study, but also to live here and to gain experience with a different society and culture. A good place to live is essential for that. I have therefore asked written questions before, as have some of my colleagues. The Kences monitor attached to the answers shows that there are too few student homes in each student city. We know that the shortage of housing does not apply exclusively to students. The most important solution is to build, build and build a long-term solution. In the meantime, we need to think about other things. Mr. Chairman. The answers to my written questions show that the Minister is talking to various institutions, including universities, colleges and Kences, about how we can arrange accommodation together. Can the Minister inform us as soon as concrete agreements come out of these consultations? And when can we expect a successor of the student accommodation agreement 2011 to 2016? Mr. Chairman. Universities actively recruit students abroad. This is done by Nuffic, but also by individual universities. If the Minister is still talking about the housing issue, then it is also an excellent opportunity to appeal to universities for their responsibility for good information. Can the Minister at the universities and colleges examine to what extent they also provide information on housing in the Netherlands during recruitment? Does the Minister think that this is a shared responsibility of universities and colleges? Can the Minister discuss recruiting students from abroad also include the aspect of living? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can respond immediately. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that we live in an international world and that this also applies to higher education, perhaps especially higher education. Experiences abroad are becoming increasingly relevant. Our students are also more likely to work in an international labour market. In short, although I also see more nationalistic tendencies in the Netherlands, I think it is of the utmost importance to maintain that international attitude in education and especially in higher education. That is why we also have the ambition to prepare new generations of students for that international context. Higher education must therefore also provide scope for international cooperation and for meetings with people who think differently and come up with other experiences. That is why internationalisation is of great value, also for Dutch students. That's why I'm a passionate advocate of what we call the International Classroom. It can enrich the experience of all students. I recognise that international students are also important to strengthen the knowledge-based economy. At the end of last year, Nuffic's research showed that international students produce around 1.5 billion a year for the Dutch Treasury. Internationalisation thus also benefits society as a whole. I would add that, as far as I am concerned, this should never lead to those arguments taking precedence. I say this to Mr Futselaar in particular. The point is that a university or university of higher education is based on the intrinsic task of providing good higher education. This may be a pleasant side effect, but it must not lead to any decision being taken. What about the figures on international students? I see it slightly more nuanced than the SP. Indeed, there is a growth in the number of international students. Between 2007 and 2016, growth was seen from 38.000 to 74.000. As a result, the share of international students has increased from around 6% to 10%. At the same time we also see an increase in the number of Dutch students by over 80,000. Fortunately, therefore, I am not going to have any further debate on this because of or in spite of the fact that students continue to study, and that they continue to do so to an increasing extent. Of course, growth has an impact on the housing market. It is therefore also important that we look now and in the future at what the estimates are. The CDA asked about those estimates. We see that we can expect a fairly stable number of out-of-town students. For the year 2024/2025 there are about 366,000 students, according to the National Student Housing Monitor. That includes the international students who come to the Netherlands for a whole programme. There are, of course, regional derogations, because the situation is not the same everywhere. I also say that international students often have different demands. For example, they need a home immediately upon arrival and often seek furnished homes. What is the primary responsibility of educational institutions? That's what I stand for as Minister of Education. I told you, I think internationalization is a good thing. I would therefore like to continue to encourage this, but, as D66 pointed out, I also have an eye for the shadow side. Internationalisation must always balance an increase in the quality of Dutch education and the profiling of higher education abroad. Sustainable internationalisation is paramount, and that requires a balance. It is actually similar to the discussions we are also having on English-language education. How much of the curriculum is allowed, how many courses can be completed in English? That too must not be an end in itself, for example to recruit more international students, but must always be assessed in terms of content. You have also received a letter from me on this matter recently. I also believe that educational institutions have a responsibility in this matter. They cannot simply place that responsibility on others alone. A university or university is responsible on the one hand for conducting internationalisation policies. For example, it is about providing good and sufficient information. On the other hand, institutions also have a role to play in cooperation with the municipality and the house-breeders at local level. If it turns out that institutions do not take sufficient responsibility and are not the interlocutor they could be, as Mr Futselaar suggested, I would like to address them. Let's look at the general policy. So I'm looking for the balance. This means that I do not believe that the policy should be closed to international students, as has been the case under Rutte I. This has caused enormous inconvenience in our neighbouring countries. I have had a lot of discussions with my German colleagues about this in order to smooth things out a little bit and to rebuild cooperation. But there are also other noises from the Chamber, led by former Member Duisenberg, who asked me to come up with very ambitious scenarios for incoming and outgoing student mobility. Scenarios have been developed partly in response to this question from the Chamber. There is a reporting Task Force Country Strategy. It will be sent to your Chamber this fall. The task force's remit was in short: less fragmentation, more cooperation and focus on abroad in the field of higher education. The report does not draw up any scenarios. However, a number of useful suggestions are made. You'll get that report. I would like to leave it to my successor to respond to that. Let me put it first: I very much agree with the conclusion reached here that there must be more cooperation, including between institutions. It is very bad when institutions individually try to get as many students as possible from China or anywhere else. That's what I'm trying to encourage. At the same time, I am trying to get universities and institutions to profile themselves against each other. This means that not every institution needs to do the same and so one institution can pursue a more active internationalisation policy than the other. In short, Mr President, as far as I am concerned, we continue to internationalise. We do not deny that there are problems. For example, I saw this at the Housing Hotline, which the LSVb organized together with Erasmus Student Network this summer. That's where about 150 reports have been coming in since then. So there's a signal, and we need to take it seriously. How are we gonna do that? What should institutions do? The institutions must assume their responsibilities by providing good information, as I said. Mrs Van Eijs of D66 asked whether institutions are currently doing enough to provide information. Yeah, as far as I'm concerned, they should. There is also a Code of Conduct International Student Higher Education. It sets out what institutions should do, what services they should provide to international students through international offices and what costs are involved. So they need to communicate clearly, openly and transparently to upcoming students what awaits them and perhaps also what problems they may encounter. They have to be clear about that. If housing in a city is complicated, they need to prepare students for that. Furthermore, I expect them to take responsibility at local level to engage in cooperation with the municipality and house-breeders in order to avoid problems in the future and to solve the problems for the time being. That's what I expect. As I have already said, I would like to address those institutions which fail to do so. I would also like to see the good examples we already have shared. Take Groningen, where the university, the college and the municipality have already launched a joint website especially for international students with information on housing. I think that's a good way to do it. Above all, there is no need for organisations to point to each other. I can see that sometimes in the pieces. I would also like to point out that we need to look at creative ways of organising student housing. These solutions sometimes go hand in hand with the educational vision of the institution. Take an initiative like the Academy of the City. This foundation is active in Utrecht and Amsterdam and provides accommodation to students in exchange for an active contribution in the neighbourhood to promote social cohesion. These are often empty houses or urban renewal areas. The Foundation Academie van de Stad tries to offer students accommodation there, but at the same time asks for something in return for society. That fits perfectly with the arguments from my strategic agenda to give more meaning to bildung. For the future, therefore, it is important that knowledge institutions, municipalities and household ponders work together and formulate ambitions, are aware of each other's ambitions and exchange information in a good way. I do not see much scope for spreading as Mr Futselaar suggested, because that is really contrary to the autonomy of the institutions and the policy of achieving greater profiling. That would really give institutions the freedom to say: come all of you and then we will spread out afterwards. No, institutions must take their own responsibility. Not every region is the same. A university or university in a shrinkage region can be quite different from a university or university in the Randstad. In short, it really comes down to cooperation. That is, on the one hand, on a national level. I'd like to take that up with the UNSU and the Association of Colleges. I will remind the institutions of their own responsibilities in recruiting students. This is also when working together at national, local and regional level through the National Platform Student Housing. Apart from BZK, my department, the Association of Colleges, the VSNU, a number of municipalities, the LSVB, Real Estate Interest and Kences are included. The Minister of State will tell the Chamber more about this, because this direction is mainly based on the theme of housing, which includes student housing. Finally. The CDA drew the comparison with the university lectures. That is a special form of education. This education is intensive, small-scale and therefore also residential. Students are asked to live there as well. They pay extra contributions for that. This is in line with that very special form of education, for which an exception has also been made in the law. So it can't apply to everyone. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u49	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I understand that you can't compare the situation of the university colleges one-on-one with the situation in the rest of higher education. But isn't it possible for you to impose more stringent requirements on universities? I'm not saying that this must necessarily be regulated by law; it can also be done in the form of a covenant or agreements so that they make more effort to regulate all that living space at the front? That way you can make sure that they carry that in their package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u50	I do not think that we should turn educational institutions into a kind of housing corporation. That seems very dangerous to me. I see more that the direction is directed at local and regional level. You don't want it to be just a responsibility of universities or colleges. The point is, you're looking for the partnership. Offices that are empty or a COA location used for the reception of refugees and which may no longer be used may also be useful for student accommodation, for example. You want to look for this kind of new possibilities. For this, you need universities and colleges, but also the house vectors and, above all, the direction of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u51	I understand that. I really don't mean to turn a university into a housing corporation. The point is that they feel more responsible to proactively arrange housing for the students they bring in from abroad. It is also important that they engage more actively in discussions with municipalities, housing corporations and private investors in order to create suitable housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think it goes a little far to draw the general conclusion that institutions do not. I see institutions that are doing very well. I already gave the example of Groningen, where I see that there is a joint effort to provide good information. Sometimes an institution just needs to be honest. For Dutch students we are not always able to offer accommodation within the municipal boundaries. This sometimes leads students to travel longer and sometimes to stay at home in the first or second year or even longer. I think, above all, that there should be clarity. What can students expect? Where can they go for housing? Then they can take that into account: perhaps it will be more difficult if I go to one city, so perhaps I will opt for another institution, which I know is better and more quickly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u53	I have two questions for the Minister. The Minister is right to say that cooperation is the key. I heard she saw a role for the ministries in that too, and that reassures me. But we had an action plan that ran until 2016, and that is now no longer active. I understand that the Minister does not have a very strong tendency to look into the future, but can she imagine that a new action plan could give a good impetus to solve the short-term problems a little easier?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u54	I could imagine that, but first of all my colleague, Mr Plasterk, is going to deal with that. Secondly, as Mr Schippers said last, we are deeply and deeply decommissioned in all new intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u55	That's a new variant, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr Futselaar's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u58	The Minister is indeed deeply outgoing, but fortunately she is still constitutionally obliged to answer questions. My second question relates to the system of financing. The new coalition has said that it wants to look at the funding of higher education at all. I imagine that you will include the way in which international students are funded at institutions. At the moment, it could perhaps give the wrong incentives. I was wondering what the Minister would advise the new coalition in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u59	I leave that entirely to the new coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u60	That was predictable, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u61	Yeah, but at least now I've said it and other parties could hear it. There's nothing about it in the coalition agreement. I saw what I could pull in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, or is he here in the capacity of Minister for Housing and National Service?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stand here as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. My department is indeed responsible for the subject of living. Mr. Chairman. When I went into politics ten years ago as Minister of OCW, there were 38,000 international students. Ten years later, now that I'm leaving politics, that number has doubled to about 74.000; time-limit 1 October. The number of Dutch students has also increased by 82,000. The housing shortage, especially for small households, has increased. The combination of these factors means that there is indeed a problem. In addition to what the honourable Member has said, it might be useful to take one more look at who is responsible for what. I was given something from our people from the board of directors living in my department. I look at the group of the VVD: in my chest there is also a liberal who sometimes tries to wrestle out of it like a little monster and whispering to me very liberal things. I myself have, of course, added 'involved' to the list of responsibilities. If you're going to study somewhere, it's not entirely illogical that you're wondering if you can find a place there somewhere. I went to college in England myself a long time ago, in London. Before I finally agreed to go there, I first discussed with the professor whether there was housing there. When it turned out that this was the case, but in a sort of dorm, so with a little less privacy than I was used to in my Dutch dorm. That's what I increased on the buy back then. Of course, the person concerned has a role to play in this, but as a follow-up, of course, this also applies to the institution where you are going to study. It has, I believe, the role of minimum information on the housing situation, but it can also show itself to be responsible by saying: if you come to us, this is and this is the situation as far as housing is concerned. That may also be less good news, because someone can report to the Virgin House and say: I'm looking for a place to live. Maybe there's 50 kilometers of trains down the road, in Lelystad, a room, but that's probably not what everyone had in mind. So people have to face the housing market in time with the institution and how close to the institution and where they could live. Municipalities have a role to play. It is often the municipalities that are very proud together with knowledge institutions: we are the international campus, whether this or that. They also develop that, create a zoning plan for that and thus take the farmer to all kinds of international places to recruit students for their campus. Then you can also expect them to take into account the fact that they have done so in their housing policy. Finally, as a state, we can coordinate between OCW, which is responsible for education, Economic Affairs, which is responsible for technological innovation and for everything that has to do with it, Foreign Affairs, which also has a role to play, and BZK, from the responsibility of the housing market, try to support that process. What my predecessor, Mr Blok, has done in recent years and what I took over from him shortly before the elections, is to organise an international platform in which we bring together all those involved partners and ensure that this is seen together. These are Kences, the knowledge institute for student accommodation, the Association of Colleges, the Association of Universities and the municipalities. In that National Platform Student Housing is therefore also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is where acute problems are addressed and solutions sought. The problem of international student accommodation is once again on the agenda for the November meeting. Further arrangements can therefore be made there. Indeed, this means that the internationalisation ambitions, which the institutions rightly have, I fully agree with OCW's colleague, in any case state law but also content, because it is very good for Dutch science, the Dutch economy and the Dutch culture that as an open country, proud of our knowledge institutions, we are trying to interest people from all over the world in coming to study here, and must be compared with the local offer of student housing and the provision of building plans. In consultation, it is then necessary to ensure that a sleeve can be adjusted. That is actually the state of play. Mr Futselaar asked whether there should be a new covenant or action plan. I don't think we need that covenant because we have that platform. The action plan is therefore de facto, because the National Platform Student Housing has been mentioned. Soon it will meet again. If there was a need for new action, I would fall into the predictable answer that we are missionary and that this is not up to me. I have read with interest something about this in the new coalition agreement, but perhaps on this occasion I can say that I have intended to start a 'crop group'. If I come across anything after I leave, I'll meet with the other members of that group and we'll keep it up. You can hold me to that. If I ever get caught taking a view on this, warn me, because that is not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u64	I have hardly been able to hear the horrors of the liberal reprisals that suddenly hit the Minister. That seems to me to be serious and a reason to seek medical care, despite its own risk. The minister said, "if there's a need." In my opinion, Kences himself states that there is a need for a new action plan. Then let's do it. That is my appeal, not so much to the Minister, who cannot really answer it, but to the rest of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u65	Then your call is made and it is in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u66	It's been noted. There remains a question from the group of the VVD about the state of play in the flexible forms of housing. The housing of urgent target groups is one of the people's housing priorities. This encourages municipalities and corporations to look for innovative and flexible solutions. In addition, the mixed housing of different target groups is promoted from BZK. I would like to mention, for example, the temporary housing provision for status holders where mixed housing can be provided. In addition, we investigate for example the concept of "Plan" and here he comes the magic mix of "Platform"31. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. I look around: is there a need for a second term? In any case, I see that Mr Futselaar is in need of this. I shall now give the floor to Mr Futselaar. Speaking time is one minute, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u68	I'll read soon, Mr. Chairman, because I have three. I present the first one together with Mr Özdil van GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Student Housing Action Plan ended in 2016;]] [[noting that students still have great difficulty finding suitable accommodation;]] [[Whereas this leads to undesirable situations for national and international students;]] [[Whereas this situation can only be resolved if all the parties concerned join forces;]] [[Whereas several participants in the National Platform for Student Housing call for a new action plan;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a new covenant and action plan for student accommodation with all partners in the student housing chain and to facilitate this action plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the European Department of the Erasmus Student Network (ESN) notes that international students are not sufficiently aware of the housing situation in the country and place of destination;]] [[calls on the Government to require universities to provide (international) students with a fair, transparent and complete picture of the housing situation and possible scarcity of student residences in the city of establishment even before registration;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the scarcity of student housing is concentrated mainly in some cities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a better distribution of international students in regions or cities where the scarcity of student accommodation is lower,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33104-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33104-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33104-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you, Mr President. My group is very pleased that everyone in this Chamber agrees that students' housing needs must be resolved as quickly as possible. Then it is good that we have an action plan which has been proven to work and on which the people concerned say that we should do it again. So I just want to say that I expect everyone in this Chamber to embrace the motion I tabled together with Mr Futselaar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister. In the first term, I advocated giving priority to Dutch students in housing. Maybe it's me, but I haven't heard from the minister about it. Perhaps he will be able to respond to this in the second term, but that will then be on the basis of a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of student accommodation;]] [[Whereas there is a record number of foreign students in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that priority is given to Dutch students in housing for students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33104-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, it is still unclear who is responsible now. The Minister does point out that, among other things, she appeals to universities for their role in this, but the CDA remains unclear. Are they now the first to take initiatives, attract the glove and get to work? She indicated that she's appealing to universities, but how could it have gotten so far that we're dealing with these problems and housing is lagging behind? Finally, I would like to mention the forecasts for the future. The National Student Housing Monitor doesn't show enough of what that future looks like. The minister mentioned some figures for 2024 and 2025. I think that the successors should take a very close look at these figures to see what really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr Futselaar has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yes, because Mr Ronnes is not quite clear on who is responsible. I'd like to remove that ambiguity. That is why I ask Mr Ronnes if he sees anything in a well-defined action plan that takes very precise account of the responsibilities and the steps that are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u77	I am actually in favour of first defining clearly where the first responsibility lies. It is clear that it must be done together with all parties. We're talking about internationalization. If universities attract students from abroad, I believe that the ball is also with them to ensure that there is at least sufficient housing. They must involve those who can achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both directors for their reply. They have discussed, among other things, the shared responsibility of all parties. Then the question remains whether the urgency there is to organise housing for foreign students can really be turned into action. I hear from the two leaders that they do not want an action plan or a covenant and that the platform must function for this. We wonder if this is enough. Is coordination well arranged? Who's the one who's gonna go through with it and make sure that something's really gonna change? Another question lies in the area of local solutions, where it should eventually land. The housing corporations, the municipalities and the tenants are busy with housing arrangements. We wonder if universities in the country have also joined the agreements made. Does the Minister think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you. Mr Koerhuis has another question for you, Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u81	I still have a small point. I now hear D66 talking about an action plan. My party stands for building. Build, build, build: that is what we say in our election programme and that is what we say in the coalition agreement. Let us wait for the debate on the government statement and future debates before we talk about action plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u82	I indicated that the Minister indicated that she would rather not have an action plan or a covenant. My question was intended as an enlightening question to the Minister, namely whether the platform is sufficient. I did not say that I wanted an action plan or a covenant. Maybe this will clear things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make the motions on the items Nos. 15 and My colleague deals with the motions on items Nos. 14 and 17. In the motion in part No. Mr Futselaar asked 15 to oblige universities to inform students fairly, transparently and fully about the housing situation. I have already indicated in my reply that I think universities should be honest, transparent and fully informed. This can lead to the student becoming aware of how easy it is to get a place to live. If it is difficult, it may not always be remedyable, not even for the university or college, but then it is at least clear to the upcoming student that he or she has to take into account. That this must be done, we have also laid down in the Code of Conduct International Student in Dutch Higher Education. It states that institutions should clarify which services they should provide to students and what costs they incur, including in the context of housing. So I would like to remind the institutions once again of the code of conduct. I will also ask the VSNU, with institutions from the cities where the problem is greatest, to enter into discussions in the near future, also to get a more precise understanding of the problem, because I also see that the VSNU has a rather different experience of this than, for example, the LSVb. I think it is important to point out that universities and colleges have to take responsibility, but I don't think it adds anything to everything we already have to make it legally mandatory. So I'm deceiving the motion. The Futselaar motion in part No. 16 is about dispersion. I've already said what I need to say. Here too, institutions have to make agreements with each other when they are in the same city or region, but at the same time I want the profile of institutions. I would particularly like to see the direction taken at local and regional level. With the SP, I have had the debate on distribution on a regular basis over the past five years, because according to the SP, student distribution is the solution to many problems in neighbourhoods and cities, but I have never believed in it and therefore do not believe in it now, when it comes to international students. Finally, the CDA's question on direction. It's not always better when the direction is in one hand, but of course there has to be direction. The direction on the information and preparation of students for their arrival in the Netherlands lies with the educational institutions. The direction of building lies with an alderman in a particular city who has to make a construction plan. Those two need to consult intensively at local level. This is how it works very often, in my opinion, when we look for solutions that are feasible and fit both the educational institution in question and the city with its own problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u85	It is not so much an Excel list with quotas and a distribution key. I am concerned that an institution in a city where the problem is very big dares to say: it is very difficult here, perhaps it would be better to look at a similar study instead of in Amsterdam in Enschede. I do not see institutions doing that at the moment, but I do think it could have added value, because not all foreign students opt for one specific city or institution for their foreign experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u86	I agree with you, but I do not think that the individual institution should do so. It would be good if, for example, the Neso's, so the agencies that are in different places in the world, where students can get information about studying in the Netherlands, are very clear and open about that: if this is important to you and you really want to live close to your study site or you want to know for sure that you can go to that same city, it might be easier to go back to Mr Futselaar's example, but to go to Enschede instead of Amsterdam. As Mr Plasterk said, the individual student has a responsibility to make that assessment. Now it is only about housing, but there are many elements that play a role in the final choice of international students for the place where they want to study. This is one of them, but in the end the student has to make the integral balance for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two more motions to discuss, but I shall begin with Mr Ronnes, who said that he was not entirely satisfied with the answer as to where the responsibility lies. I understand that, but at the same time I think that the postmodern reality is that not one person is politically responsible for every student housing situation that arises somewhere. So if many students gather around Ben Feringa, top physicist, in Groningen, not the minister of OCW, the minister of BZK or anyone else is responsible for the housing on the ground. At least that's regional. Then again what I have just said is that the person concerned, the institute, the university, the municipality and the housing corporation will have to adapt a sleeve to it together. It is therefore a shared responsibility. That doesn't mean you have to run away from it, so we have a coordinating role. We're gonna take him in, too. I think our successors will do the same. But you cannot say: if there is a problem with student accommodation somewhere, then we are going to hold it responsible. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u89	I understand where the minister comes from. I understand you're working together in the performance. But the educational institutions are the ones that bring the students from outside here. They know who is coming, they can also see forecasts and they can sit down with those parties to ensure that action is taken in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u90	I agree. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 14 calls for a new action plan. Yeah, that's one of those motions now. I may personally be very much in favour of this motion, but I am now giving a neutral opinion on it. It's really up to the Chamber to do something with that. You have already heard something about the motion on item No. 16. I didn't know anything about that permanent discussion about spreading. So I've been googling on the spread and Chairman Mao. Then you come up on all websites about the spread of people across the country. We'll stay away from that. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Kops, because there is already quite a margin for municipalities to give priority within the current frameworks. But if it were the intention to create new frameworks, then I would fall back into the fact that that would then be new policies. I wouldn't advise you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u91	After I have said that I find the Minister's statement on distribution somewhat tacky and that I regret that he makes it in his last debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u92	That was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u93	Well, okay. Let's not talk about Chinese genocide! I'd like the motion on part number one. 15 hold on. I have heard the Minister make a certain commitment about talking to the institutions about this problem. Then perhaps we can see with a successor whether we still want to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u94	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (33104, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u95	I think I have also asked the Minister a question about the housing arrangements. Did I miss the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u96	Perhaps you could repeat the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u97	The question was about performance agreements. I had asked if the universities had included this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u98	Now, if you'll just ask me about it. I think we will then discuss this in the next consultation in November. Is it enough for me to promise you that we will then report on what has been going on in that regard? I see that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u99	This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u100	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday 24 October. I think this is your last debate? Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u101	Unless tomorrow night we...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-11-tweedekamer-7.u102	Unless we order you again. It could be. Thank you so much for coming. I thank the Members of Parliament and thank the people in the gallery for their interest.
