ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD. The speaking time shall be four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. After the Research Council for Security delivered an impressive report, which has been read in the world, has been tested and maintained, with the clear and irrefutable conclusion that flight MH17 was shot with a BUK rocket from Eastern Ukraine, we now come to prosecution and trial. The most difficult and long-term, but also the most important stage is now beginning. We want to know who is responsible for this crime and whether they can be punished. My group has always preferred to do so through an international tribunal under UN mandate. This is also in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2166, which was unanimously adopted. But we also know which country stopped that tribunal. That wasn't China, not Venezuela, not Angola, no, that was Russia. The countries in the Joint Investigation Team (JIT) then moved rapidly to plan B. This has resulted in the national option, so prosecution and trial in the Netherlands before a Dutch court under Dutch law. Whoever peels off those options can do the same. After all, when a tribunal is set up without a UN Security Council resolution, there is no existing legal framework for legal assistance and extradition, there are no clear procedural rules and it is not clear under which law is to be judged, or condemned. With the national option, there is all that. Persecution and trial can now take place according to the law and legal system that is almost unparalleled in almost all countries in the world: the Dutch. Although that puts our country once again in the spotlight, which also makes us vulnerable, I hope that today we, as a Dutch Parliament, will really be able to stand up for this. After all, we are the land of Hugo de Groot and this is the legal capital of the world. Even more than in the previous phase, attempts will be made to discredit the criminal investigation. After all, we have seen that before. I must also say today that from the Netherlands too often too easily suggestions, insinuations, conspiracy theories or even explicit accusations are made that the Dutch State would not have acted in good faith in this whole process. We all know who I am talking about, but unfortunately we cannot discuss this with everyone today. That's different from asking critical questions. Yeah, I got it, too. Firstly, I would like to ask about the implications of the choice for our diplomacy. At the moment there is consensus between the JIT countries, but it will take the utmost of Dutch diplomacy to keep it all that way. How confident does the Foreign Minister have that international solidarity will be there in five years' time or ten years' time? How do we ensure that all the countries concerned continue to support the Dutch trial through geopolitical weather and wind? Secondly, I have a question about the treaty concluded with Ukraine, specifically about hearing suspects. Article 8.2 of the Treaty with Ukraine provides that Ukrainian suspects may be tried by video conference. From the written answer to my questions, I have to say that suspects can refuse to do so. We have asked for this, but we have not received a clear answer. According to Dutch criminal law, the accused may not refuse his questioning, but apparently he is now. Why is this? Why do the video conferences not have the same rules as a suspect in the Netherlands? Can the Minister correct this or explain why this was chosen? Finally, I have a question about state liability. Some believe that the state of Ukraine should be held responsible because the airspace was wrong, as it turned out afterwards, over 9.7 kilometres away. In fact, we concluded in 2015 that the airspace responsibility system did not function and that even if the authorities made the right risk assessments, this did not ultimately lead to a choice that might have prevented this serious disaster. I would like to continue the debate on state liability here. Can the government share with the Chamber the legal options of state liability, I would ask that, in particular, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, perhaps in the form of a letter? For the sake of clarity, this is, of course, separate from the ongoing JIT investigation, which focuses on individual liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I remember well the anger I felt when it was clearly proved that the MH17 had not crashed as a result of a fatal accident, but as a result of an attack with a Buk rocket; the anger over innocent civilians who were victims of a war that certainly was not theirs. I still feel that anger today. One thought prevails here today, and I think that this applies both to Parliament and to the cabinet, namely that the perpetrators should come to court, that they should not get away with their punishment. A great deal of patience has already been demanded from relatives in this area with the steps that have been taken. Sometimes it was frustrating and sometimes difficult, but also for this reason care is more than anything else. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet has now made a choice with regard to the prosecution strategy. That choice brings us one step closer to justice, but it is also a choice that brings great responsibility to ourselves. Because the Netherlands has a high-quality legal system and a good reputation in the world. I suspect that we are also getting quite a bit of a headwind when that process is really about to begin. Like the Cabinet, I want to do everything in my power to ensure that those guilty do not get away with their punishment. That's why I want to secure two things. First of all, I want the Netherlands not only to look at the performers of this attack, but also to find out through social media about the persons who are responsible for this attack. It's just those clients who might be high up in the tree. On this point, the D.A. stated earlier that, in the search for the suspects, it was necessary to look at both the performers and the clients, as far as possible in the chain of command. How is diplomatic involvement of very high-ranking government officials taken into account within the JIT, the UN and later on in criminal proceedings? The cabinet says it wants to do everything it can to ensure that any suspects can be tried, preferably physically in the Netherlands. But there's something weird about that. As far as I am concerned, excellent agreements have been reached with Ukraine on the transfer of jurisdiction, prosecution and trial of suspects, videoconferencing and skype possibilities in court. Ukraine is now the country that cooperates very well. It has done everything possible to get the material surpluses to the Netherlands and has transferred powers to the Netherlands. But with the only other country concerned, Russia, the cabinet has not made any arrangements. On this point, the cabinet states that there is no reason at present to make additional agreements with the Russians. I would say that additional agreements should be made at this very moment. For let's be honest: the role of Russia was, is and remains a major focus: smoke curtains, non-cooperation in legal requests, cover-up of radar images, accusing others, withholding data decoding and accusing MH17 censorship researchers. I am not even talking about the veto in the Security Council against a UN tribunal. Why are there no additional agreements with Russia? What are the chances that the Russians will now cooperate through the Legal Service? Is this not the best time to make these agreements, while it is still a neutral moment, the nationality of suspects is not known and we know that the Russians do not have to extradite their own nationals constitutionally and that it is already difficult to apply for legal aid? Why are we waiting until a charge has been made to make the same watertight agreements as the agreements we have with Ukraine? Finally, I would like to ask two questions about flying over conflict zones. Former Secretary of State Mansveld mainly looked for it in the international websites. How much information has been put on this at the moment, and how many countries have done so? International security is a matter of national action. Countries have primary responsibility for their own airspace, but it has proved that this judgment cannot always be relied on. I therefore agree with Mr Ten Broeke's questions on responsibility. But I would also like to know from these ministers how the Servaes/Sjoerdsma motion on a covenant on the deployment of security services to improve the provision of information to airlines has really been implemented. I say that again, because I get the strong impression that this commitment and those aviation goggles are still not regulated by the services. Finally, I wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Ten Broeke said in between: it is very important that we close the queues in terms of the quality and independence of research. It is a pity that the only party to question that investigation is not prepared to defend it in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. It has been over three years since flight MH17 was shot out of the sky and all 298 passengers died horribly. Shortly after this immense tragedy, the cabinet set itself three priorities: repatriation of the victims, the investigation into the crimes and the condemnation of the perpetrators. After bringing home the body remains of the victims and the report of the Research Council for Security, all attention now goes to the third priority, the finding and trial of perpetrators. Shortly before the recess, there was the news that the five countries of the Joint Investigation Team, Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, Ukraine and the Netherlands have opted for national prosecution and trial in and through the Netherlands, which will be embedded in close and lasting international cooperation and support. This follows a previous blockade on the part of Russia in the UN Security Council, which made it impossible to prosecute at that level, which was preferred. In the Minister's letter, the choice of national prosecution is supported by various arguments, including the reputation of the Dutch legal system and the good standing of the survivors in the trial. My group can support these arguments. I also think it is important that prosecution should probably take less time than would be the case when an international tribunal is set up. Anyway, I think it is very important that it comes to trial as soon as possible. Successful trial depends, of course, on the cooperation of other countries, Ukraine and Russia, but doubts remain. A clear treaty has been concluded with Ukraine to manage the prosecution, but does it also mean that there is a guarantee that Ukraine will cooperate with all the requests that the judge will have in the process? Can the Minister answer that? There is also the issue of keeping Ukraine's airspace open for civil aviation. The OVV has made it clear that that airspace should have been closed. It has been asked for before, but it is not clear to me from the answers to the written questions whether the Joint Investigation Team can possibly prosecute people for keeping airspace open. Can the Minister respond to that? With regard to Russia's cooperation, I understand from the communication to the Chamber that there was no bilateral agreement with Russia on the questioning of witnesses and experts from Russia and the prosecution, trial and extradition of potential Russian suspects. That seems very undesirable to me. This should at least be explored. Or is the Minister actually saying that signals have been received that such cooperation is in any case excluded? The countries that together form the Joint Investigation Team have no doubt about the situation. But from Russia, but also from the side of some journalists and researchers there sometimes sounds scepticism. It's very difficult to appreciate that. Nor can it be denied that there is a propaganda war on this subject. In my view, it is crucial that the evidence provided by Russia is seriously examined. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. The grief of the next of kin, who suddenly lost their loved ones in the disaster of the flight MH17, is hardly to be imagined. Nothing can make up for their loss. What has to be done is that the perpetrators are punished. But that too is very difficult, given the geopolitical arena in which this terrible drama has taken place. The suspects of taking down the flight MH17 will now be tried in the Netherlands. That is the choice of this cabinet, along with the countries that are part of the Joint Investigation Team, the JIT. It is a second choice, out of powerlessness: powerlessness against the Russian veto against an international UN tribunal; and powerlessness to move Russia to participate in the creation of a new international tribunal. Without Russia's cooperation, any Russian suspects cannot be extradited. In any case, the choice of court in the Netherlands now offers the possibility to judge suspects who cannot or cannot be extradited by default. Although not ideal, this is of great importance. I therefore believe that, given the circumstances, it is appropriate to defend that this is the choice of the cabinet. The right of the next of kin is also an important advantage of the trial in the Netherlands. It is still not quite clear to me why that choice had to be made now. Why was this decision not taken only after the criminal investigation had been completed and there really were concrete suspects to be identified? Would that perhaps have allowed Russia to cooperate with an international tribunal, with a final investigation, including concrete suspects? I ask the Foreign Minister to do this. It is largely about Russia's attitude in this tragedy. Even though no concrete suspects were charged, the flight MH17 was hit by a Buk missile, originating from Russian territory, fired from an area owned by the pro-Russian rebels. Russia denies any involvement, even in the entire conflict in Eastern Ukraine. The veto in the Security Council, the denials of disinformation campaigns, they all show that Russia is in its stomach. Should any Russian suspects be convicted in absentia in due course, this will certainly lead to a reaction from Russia. My question to the cabinet is to what extent the Netherlands anticipates this. Does the Netherlands, for example, ensure that it keeps the full support of the entire European Union? Does the Foreign Minister think that the EU really remains a closed front on this issue? At the same time, it is wise for the Netherlands to try to stay in conversation with that same Russia. The right must have its course, but the issue must also be raised diplomatically. We understand that there is multilateral contact, but there is also contact between the Russian President and our own Prime Minister, as I read in the documents. The radar footage has been delivered by now. After three months, a manual has been provided. Is it known whether these radar images can be read and whether these images are authentic? Can the cabinet say anything about that at this stage? Has Russia in any way responded to the decision to bring suspects to justice here, or is there any chance that the Russians will participate in any trial via a video connection, as may happen in Ukraine? Finally. The extremely painful question of why Ukrainian airspace was still open on 17 July 2014 remains. The disaster might never have happened if it had been otherwise. This is an almost intolerable idea, but it is precisely for this reason that we must once and for all make clear what knowledge of the risks was already available before 17 July and who might have gone wrong. Is the question of individual liability also a question that should or should play a role in criminal investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. More than three years after the shooting of the MH17 and the death of 298 passengers and crew members, survivors still live every day with the consequences of this astonishing act of war. The Prime Minister swore he wouldn't rest until those responsible were punished. A lot's happened since then. We know the MH17 was shot down by a Buk missile. We know that Buk missile was launched from a mobile launcher in rebel territory. We know that the launch facility came from Russia and was returned to Russia. My group has great respect for the depth and professionalism of all the research carried out so far. At the same time, there's still a lot we don't know. Who decided to send the launcher there? Who made the fatal decision to press the button? Who fired? Who directed the return of the Buk to Russia? I repeat to the Prime Minister: we will not rest until the perpetrators are caught and tried. My group has always supported the government in the search for an international approach to the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators. Unfortunately, the establishment of a special UN tribunal has come up against a cynical veto. My group can well understand that, after that, national courts were chosen for all kinds of reasons. At the same time, there is now a risk that international involvement will be reduced and that the Netherlands will become increasingly isolated. International engagement and international pressure are essential for the taking of evidence, trial and execution of the judgment. From the answer given in the written consultation, I understand that the role of the international sounding board has yet to take shape. At least there are experts and officers coming in from the JIT countries, according to the cabinet. That's a good idea, but I suggest you don't limit it to that. I think it is important to give others a role, such as the UN and the grieving nations. What does the Cabinet think about this? For the desired international approach, the possible involvement of the International Criminal Court may also be important. As part of the preliminary investigation into possible crimes in Ukraine, the prosecution is also looking at bringing down the MH17, says the Cabinet. Is it conceivable that this would lead to prosecution? In view of the complementarity of national justice and the International Criminal Court, what would that mean for the decision now taken to prosecute national law? Finally. As a result of the disaster, we in this Chamber, again today, have talked a lot about the safety of airspace. The Chicago Convention, from 1947 mind you, regulates that countries decide whether or not to close their airspace. If it is not closed, airlines decide which route they choose. In practice, they make different considerations. Passengers are not aware of these considerations. We were reminded of this again when, at the beginning of August, a month ago, Air France decided to fly a larger curve around North Korea after a North Korean missile had approached a Boeing of that company at 100 kilometers. The KLM had apparently taken this decision before. Shouldn't we conclude that making these kinds of trade-offs is a government task? Colleagues have also talked about it. What about the revision of that Chicago Convention? Is that a good idea? What is the Dutch commitment to the negotiations on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. More than three years ago, 298 innocent people were killed in an attack on a plane, the MH17/KL4107. It is very important that the perpetrators of that attack are caught and brought to justice. Like previous speakers, the CDA had a strong preference for an international court, but that has been vetted in the UN Security Council and the country that is the vetode, Russia, has also made no alternative to a better one. So my group understands why a national court is being elected. That treaty is in the House of Representatives and we will deal with it very carefully. On three points, we have questions about this, which we will also ask for in writing. It's about the evidence, the suspects and the position of the next of kin. Unfortunately, a large part of the evidence has remained in the grass for months. That means that the radar images that were there can be of great importance. Both Russia and the U.S. created just after the MH17 was brought down that they had seen everything exactly. After three years, I repeat, Russia has only provided the radar data for three years from one of the two radar stations it claims to have. Is it still addressed to delivering the other radar data? The US has said that they would be willing to declassify the evidence. Is the Dutch Government prepared to ask the US to declassify it when this is appropriate in the process, which is not necessary today, even during the process? That is important because it is important that the outcome of the court be accepted by the rest of the world. Then you can zoom in on those images. Ukraine has, of course, changed its story about the radar images during the process. First the radar was in maintenance and then it was broken. At least once they joked. Does that have any consequences? It's important that the suspects are in court. An interesting formula has been found that if the suspect is Ukrainian and is in Ukraine, which can be heard via a connection. But that can be refused, as Mr Ten Broeke pointed out. Formally they can appeal and if they do not appeal, it is also seen as a case of conflict. But that wouldn't be such a pleasant starting point. How can we ensure that there won't be a court where there's no one at the scene of the suspects? Then the question about Russia will also be raised, because it is, of course, reasonable that, before the trial begins, there are agreements with both Ukraine and Russia to see how the suspects could get here. I have a number of other points, although the time is short. For us too, there is the issue of Ukraine's state liability. Why did it keep that airspace open when it warned everyone on July 14th? How do we proceed with this question? Does the Dutch government want this case to be dealt with somewhere? Can that happen fairly in Ukraine, by the way? The treaty before us sees the possibility of doing criminal law here, but the state's liability in Ukraine remains with Ukrainian law. Second. What did we know in the Netherlands? The old agreements of 2013 on the sharing of information between the government and the airlines can now be viewed confidentially. Would the government consider simply making these agreements public so that we can talk about it publicly? The new arrangements have been evaluated but the evaluation is exactly three rules. Would the government urge the I&M Secretary of State to tell us how that evaluation took place? Finally, the recommendations of the OVV. As Mr Van Ojik said, the Chicago Convention needs to be revised. ICAO has received some kind of postponement. After three years, the OVV has said: we still cannot see whether ICAO is implementing the recommendations, they will receive an additional year. What does the government think of this, especially in view of the many areas in the world that are dangerous, such as Syria, Iraq, North Korea and the Sinai Desert? Sharing of information is necessary. Corendon also failed to meet the recommendations according to the government's replies. Has Corendon been called upon to do so and, in the meantime, does she comply with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. No punishment can repay what's been ruined by lives. No punishment can dry the tears that have flowed and will flow much. Nevertheless, it is extremely important that we now, after three years, enter the next stage in which we can proceed to criminal proceedings. Good agreements have been made, perhaps not in the UN context, as the Chamber's wish was, but we naturally support the government in the solution that has now been found so that the perpetrators can be tracked down and prosecuted. However, there will be a number of practical objections to this. Some of my colleagues have already referred to this. Among other things, it's about hearing suspects through videoconferencing. What happens if suspects don't show up? What obstacles can we expect? A covenant or agreement is nice, but at the same time we are dealing with two different areas of criminal law, with two different approaches to the criminal justice chain. How does the Cabinet intend to deal with that? The position of the next of kin is also important in this process, because it will not be a one-year process, but a process of years. How does the cabinet guarantee that these people will be constantly involved in something that is going to be a very long process in the coming years? The advantage is that Dutch law applies because it takes place on Dutch territory. That applies to the right to speak. I have one specific question. Can compensation be combined in criminal proceedings? Does that also apply to foreign victims? Mr Sjoerdsma has already asked a question about the provision of information and the follow-up of a joint motion in relation to airspace safety and the position of airlines. A number of other colleagues have already asked for this. For the sake of shortness of time, I would like to support that. Finally. Of course, the fact that we have to choose to prosecute on Dutch territory has everything to do with Russia not wanting to join a joint tribunal. However, Russia is and remains crucial for successful prosecution of offenders. I would like to add my voice to the questions about how we can use our diplomatic links to get Russia to contribute to this, because this is crucial if we are to be able to proceed to successful prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	Madam President. In July, the government announced a decision on the prosecution of the suspects of bringing down the MH17, a crime that led to the death of 298 innocent civilians from 17 countries. In the event of such terrible injustice, every effort must be made to detect and punish those responsible. Fortunately, the government has always been very aware of this responsibility. We believe it is important that the way in which this is carried out continues to be carefully communicated with the next of kin. We have spoken before in the Chamber about the methods of prosecution: how can it best be done? To sum it up very briefly, the SGP Group says: in the circumstances, including Russia's veto, what is now ahead is the best choice. The choice to allow it to take place in the Netherlands is supported by arguments: the Dutch experience with great matters, the trust of the international community in our legal system, the drive and clarity of the applicable, formal and material legal status of survivors and the existence of many multilateral and bilateral treaties on the basis of which legal assistance and extradition with all kinds of other countries is possible. A very important supporting argument in the choice that is now being made is, of course, that the countries concerned, namely Australia, Belgium, Malaysia and Ukraine, have come to this choice together. That brings me to an important point. It is not just a Dutch matter. It is also about the continued involvement of other countries and the embedding in close and lasting international cooperation, as is so beautiful in the letter. Political and financial support will be endorsed by memorandums of understanding, the MoUs. What's the status of those MoUs right now? What is the situation with regard to various questions that have already been raised with regard to cooperation with the Russian authorities in the area of criminal proceedings? What real possibilities are there for this at the moment? Appointments with Ukraine are laid down in a special bilateral treaty. That must also be ratified. We will discuss this process in the light of specific questions that we do still have. Finally, on behalf of the SGP Group, I would like to express confidence in all the relevant bodies. An independent, vigorous and effective prosecution, that's what this is about. This applies both to the Netherlands and to the other countries involved. In this way, criminal proceedings can be brought in line with the UN Security Council resolution adopted unanimously on 21 July 2014. I would like to conclude with the wish: may justice be blessed!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. On 17 July 2014, the 298 passengers of flight MH17 were killed with a Buk rocket from Russia. The cowardly perpetrators of this brutal attack must be tracked down, prosecuted and severely punished. But unfortunately, it's already tough on the BOLO. More than three years after the disaster, no suspects have been identified. Officially, no names are known. The Joint Investigation Team was even forced to spread a witness call in Eastern Ukraine this summer. And the fact that a further witness call has to be made three years after the attack, says something, and that does not seem to be a good thing about the progress of criminal investigations. Why is it all so slow and tough? Why are you calling witnesses so late? Did that call get anything? The criminal process inevitably becomes a process with hooks and eyes. In fact, the main suspects appear to be from Russia and/or Ukraine, but these countries are certainly not cooperating. Extradition of their own nationals to the Netherlands is excluded by them. They can only be tried in absentia in our country. The PVV finds that undesirable. This is undesirable to the truth and undesirable to the next of kin. Therefore, the PVV has no confidence in it and I am sorry to say that the criminal proceedings will be a major success. I read in the report of the written consultation that Ukraine's transfer of criminal proceedings to the Netherlands will be launched as soon as the Netherlands invites it to do so. I would like to hear from the Minister why that has not yet happened. I ask the Minister to confirm that there is still work to prosecute not only the perpetrators of the attack but also the clients. The cabinet reports that if the JIT wants to hear Russian witnesses or experts, the existing legal aid channel can be used for this. But what about hearing Russian suspects? Why are there no additional agreements with Russia on this? The PVV finds this remarkable, especially since the cabinet itself indicates that these agreements can be reached at some point. Then why isn't that settled right away? I'd like an explanation. Then the dubious role of Ukraine. Ukraine kept life-threatening airspace open, suddenly did not have primary radar images of a war zone and now does not deliver its subjects to the Netherlands. The European Union has concluded an association agreement with Ukraine, which is of great benefit to that country. Ukrainians can now also travel visa-free throughout the European Union. But delivering suspects of a mass murder is apparently not possible. How can that be explained to anyone who is watching or listening to this debate? It is a serious scandal that, after all these gifts to Ukraine, people persist in refusing to extradite their own nationals. The PVV wants the Netherlands to sit down with Ukraine again to find a solution for the extradition of suspects. Even if Ukraine has to move legal mountains, it has to be done. Those suspects need to be extradited. Where there's a will, there's a way. I'd like a response. Finally, the lack of support and support from the international community is becoming increasingly apparent. Where are Merkel and Macron with their open and public statements of support for trial in the Netherlands? Where are they when Russia needs to be addressed in the absence of primary radar images, the lack of timely and therefore incomplete compliance with legal aid requests and the concealment of the murder weapon, the Buk installation with which those 298 people were shot out of the sky? The same applies to the UN and the European Union. These institutions also lack the eagerness to find out the truth. The subject has already disappeared beyond the horizon. Finally. What is our government doing to encourage allies and international organisations to step up their efforts to bring Russia to better cooperation in the criminal proceedings? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Members of Parliament for their support for the choice made by the Cabinet, in close consultation with the JIT partners and the Public Prosecutor, for the continuation of the prosecution. As everyone rightly pointed out in his or her own way: the main objective is that the perpetrators of this terrible act will be punished. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Staaij, who formulated something that everyone probably has in mind: he explicitly thanked all those people at the prosecutor's office and the ministries of Mr Koenders and myself, the police and all those involved in recent times who have worked incredibly hard for that important goal, which will have its course. I am convinced that this commitment will continue to be and will be urgently needed in the coming period. I will address the questions that have been raised about the treaty, the persecution that has been going on so far and the state of the criminal investigation. I will also address questions on legal aid, on the position of the next of kin and on a number of questions specific to colleagues from I and M, but which I will try to answer as best I can. Mr Koenders will then deal with the international aspects, including state liability. Mr Ten Broeke was the first to comment on this later on why the defendant's consent was actually needed for the video interview, as included in the treaty with Ukraine. Also in Dutch legal practice, a suspect has the right to be present at his trial, without any obligation. A judge may require him to do so, but that is an independent decision. In practice, it's with a reluctant suspicious evil cherry eating. He then sits, whether physically, that's the most beautiful situation, or in front of a camera, to remain silent. You can't avoid that part, not even with that obligation. I hope that will not be the case, of course, but that is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	Of course, I've looked into that, too. In the Dutch situation, a judge may indeed require a suspect to be present. He will not grant default if, in the interests of the trial, presence is required. If necessary, the judge may order the police to cuff the suspect and escort him to the courtroom. Probably can't do that here. I would like to have the assurance, if it is not possible in the treaty, that we will somehow have the same opportunity as Dutch judges to oblige suspects to participate in a video conference. The simple refusal makes it very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	Collaboration, as Mr Ten Broeke and I would like to see it, is, of course, the answer to questions and accountability. You can't make people do that. Of course, it is very much the question of what it adds to forcing someone to sit silently in front of a camera.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	Of course, it could be that in itself it also says something about the suspect sitting silently in front of a camera. That may be the consideration for a Dutch court, despite the fact that suspects may already indicate their unwillingness to cooperate, to impose an obligation, possibly involving enforcement authorities, to ensure that presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr Ten Broeke is quite right that it says a lot about a suspect if he does not want to be present or not to say anything. It's not unusual for a judge to weigh that, too. Yet you still have the situation that you have nothing more than a silent suspect. There are no legal means to get a silent, reluctant suspect to speak. Mr Sjoerdsma was the first to ask, among others, Mr De Roon also later in the course of the criminal investigation into the scope of the criminal investigation and the question whether not only the performers but also higher in the hierarchy are the ultimate clients of the criminal investigation. Indeed, during the presentation of the JIT in September 2016, it was indicated that the research also focuses on the questions who ordered to transport the Buk and who ordered to shoot down the MH17, whether the crew shot on their own initiative or whether they carried out a command from above. Those questions are therefore very specific in this investigation. Furthermore, Mr Sjoerdsma asked first, but then many others, whether a treaty with the Russian Federation would be concluded. The government has chosen that the Public Prosecutor's Office is logically leading the criminal investigation. If the Public Prosecutor states that he needs a treaty, additional agreements in addition to the agreements on international legal assistance, the government and its particular colleague Mr Koenders and I are immediately prepared to take the necessary steps, including towards the Russian Federation. However, as far as the Russian Federation is concerned, there is currently no request from the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why the agreement has now been made with Ukraine. Mr Sjoerdsma then referred to the motion he tabled on the provision of adequate capacity to intelligence and security services and the NCTV for the provision of information on airspace safety. This was addressed in letters of May and June 2016. It states that the agreement between the services includes that they will exchange information and that they will have the resources needed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	Let me turn to the previous point. That remains a bit of a remarkable point. On the one hand, we have made watertight agreements with Ukraine, for which my party compliments. Ukraine cooperates with investigations and the transfer of responsibilities in an improbable number of areas. On the other hand, we have a party, Russia, which does not cooperate, obstacles, blocks, frustrates and fathoms. And with that party, the Netherlands does not make any additional agreements. Minister Blok now says that that is because the prosecution has not requested it. I wonder why there are very different things in the answer to this question in the course of the written consultation. It says: The Russian Federation has not discussed a bilateral agreement on the questioning of witnesses and experts; the authorities have taken the view from the outset, both publicly and in diplomatic contacts, that there is no link between Russia and MH17. I believe that this explanation also applies to Ukraine. I would therefore ask this Minister to ensure that these suspects can come here, whatever nationality they have. Russian nationality is a possibility. Then why don't you just make that kind of deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	Both things are true right now. As Mr Sjoerdsma portrays, the Russian Federation is not very involved in the prosecution and shows this in various ways. At the same time, what is true is that the Public Prosecutor's Office is the prosecuting authority, has all the expertise to do so and asks the government, on the basis of its own findings, to conclude additional treaties if necessary. Wouldn't it be weird to try to make a treaty if that request isn't there? This treaty will probably not be in line with the wishes of the Public Prosecutor's Office at a later date. That exact wish is obviously not yet known. Then it would be good for the quality of the prosecution that the Public Prosecutor's Office is in charge here and that the Cabinet, again at the moment, states that it will cooperate in all ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	It bites anyway. The minister here says that Russia is not very cooperative with the prosecution. In the reply, the cabinet writes on page 11: "(...) at the moment, the cabinet cannot conclude that Russia is ignoring and/or not following resolution 2166." This minister is now saying that he is not cooperating well. Well, then, here's what I want to ask him. Suppose that's the conclusion, so don't cooperate well or sufficiently with 2166. I understand the position with regard to the D.A.'s office. It's fine that the D.A. is leading on this point. The Minister himself will then have to state the consequences of that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr Sjoerdsma brings here something with a lot of aplomb that the whole room already knew. I thought Mr Van Ojik was talking about a cynical veto in the United Nations, I thought Mrs Karabulut was talking about a propaganda war, and then Mr Sjoerdsma pretends that I am saying something very new here when I say that unfortunately there is not very much cooperation so far. This has been discussed extensively here, as is well known. That does not mean, and I have just said so, that the government is saying 'we will not continue to try to get the cooperation of the Russian Federation where necessary'. The only answer to the specific question as to whether this leads to a treaty is: no, because we do not have the request from the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	Very briefly, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	A step backwards as regards the treaty and what this minister is saying. The Minister himself says: Russia does not cooperate sufficiently with the prosecution. The cabinet says the following about Resolution 2166. Moreover, the veto of the resolution is not cooperating with the resolution. I quote: "(...) the cabinet cannot at present conclude that Russia is ignoring and/or not following resolution 2166." This minister is saying something different now. I ask him, now that he himself concludes that there is not enough cooperation with 2166, when he wrote earlier that he could not draw that conclusion, what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	I can't follow this word game. There is really no discussion in this Chamber about the difficult cooperation. At the same time, this should not lead to the conclusion that we are not continuing to try to get that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	I am just looking at who was first on the interrupting microphone: Mr Omtzigt or Mrs Karabulut. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	Nor is it entirely clear to me what this minister means. To put it bluntly: has there been any talk with Russia, or has there been any exploration to come up with a treaty on the questioning of witnesses and experts from Russia and the prosecution, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	The answer to that is: no, because we have not received the request from the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	Does that mean that it is not as Mr Sjoerdsma concluded, namely that Russia refuses to cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	Not with regard to this request, because we did not make the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	Okay. Then one last question. There are two countries that are very important to the persecution: Ukraine, with which a treaty has been concluded, and Russia, with which no treaty has been concluded. How does the government intend to prosecute the Russian parties if no clear agreement has been reached? Let me put it this way: doesn't it make sense that this need is going to come at some point? Why hasn't there been any mention of the conclusion of such a treaty? That it's not there is still verse two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	That need has not yet been mentioned because the Public Prosecutor has not yet made that request. The D.A. knows how far it is with the investigation and getting a look at specific suspects. So it can also indicate at what point in time it needs such a follow-up agreement. Once again, if there is such a need, the government will be happy to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr Sjoerdsma was indeed right. We have repeatedly asked the government to cooperate with Russia. Again and again the answer came: we cannot say that they do not cooperate. The government is now saying for the first time: they are not very cooperative. That is a crucial difference, because pursuant to Security Council Resolution 2166, which was adopted in the week following the downfall of the MH17 with that speech by Timmermans, all countries commit themselves to cooperate in the investigation. If they do not cooperate, the UN Secretary-General will vouch for that. Now the Dutch Government finds that there is no cooperation. We have been saying this for a long time, because these radar images were requested three months later and three years later the images from one station are still inside and those from the other radar station are still not. That is therefore not a form of cooperation. Is the government prepared to draw the conclusion from its words that Russia is not cooperating, too, that we should report this to the UN Security Council and ask them to take action? After all, Mr De Roon had a point when he said that it seems that the Netherlands is on its own at the moment. I think we're gonna need all the support we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	I like to be quoted correctly. Mr Omtzigt now puts the words in my mouth that Russia is not cooperating. I have indicated that Russia has been very difficult to cooperate, as many speakers have already mentioned here, but that our full commitment is to encourage Russia to cooperate, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	It's gonna be a game of words. The minister said the Russian Federation is not cooperating. I actually heard the word "not" in there. After three years with these radar images, I think the word "not" is in the picture. Normally, this kind of radar footage is available within a few days of a plane or an accident being brought down. We're still talking about it three years later. There have been big press conferences with all kinds of people with nice, big hats on them who say on behalf of the Russian Ministry of Defence that they know exactly what happened, but three years later those images are not available for the investigation, not for the OVV investigation and not for the criminal investigation. That's not cooperating, is it? Does that mean that the Dutch government must go to the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	I fully share Mr Omtzig's dissatisfaction, but there is really a difference between not cooperating at all and the difficult way in which it has gone, 'not cooperating very much' as I have just put it. I've had questions about the radar footage that has just been made available. It has indeed been too slow, but the fact that they have been made available indicates that information has come from Russia. As far as I am concerned, this falls under the category 'difficult', under 'not very cooperative', but fortunately not under the category 'no cooperation at all'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	This reasoning is difficult to follow, so I shall just ask another question. That question concerns the second point. The government says the D.A. should request an extradition treaty with Russia. I would not like to be in the public prosecutor's shoes, because the moment the Public Prosecutor would say "we want a treaty with Russia now," it would say something about the nationality of those who are suspected. Everyone here can feel that it will be useful that we have arranged something with both Russia and Ukraine before the trial begins and suspects are identified. Does the Dutch Government share the view that it will also be wise to conclude a treaty with Russia on its own? That way, we don't burden the D.A. with telling them whether suspects come from one jurisdiction or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	I fully understand Mr Omtzigt's assessment that the conclusion of a treaty can be interpreted as 'the suspects will come from that country'. The number of countries in which that can play is clear. In any case, the government considers it wise to make the Public Prosecutor's Office the lead against the background of Mr Omtzig's assessment, because that is the same consideration that the Public Prosecutor's Office naturally makes. But that knows exactly how far it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	I think it is very sensible that we should stick to the line we have followed over the last three years, namely that the prosecution should direct the investigation and the prosecution investigation. I can imagine that, apart from the fact that the prosecution did not make that request, a possible decision by the Dutch Government to conclude a treaty on this matter with a country which may be involved can be seen as something which directly endangers the independence of that country. I would like to hear that reasoning followed. 1. I agree that we continue to follow the careful line that the D.A. is in the driver's seat. 2. There are, of course, also considerations that the Netherlands has had to apply, especially now that the national option has been chosen, that we should not, with any possibility, charge us with a false suspicion that the Netherlands thinks it is possible to identify a culprit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	The questions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr Ten Broeke rightly points out that the line I am defending here on the direction at the Public Prosecutor's Office is the line that the cabinet has long been using. Mr Ten Broeke is right that this is also very much affected by the fact that, in the Dutch rule of law, it is crucial that the Public Prosecutor also does this work in independence and that it is not the government, the executive, that anticipates actions by the judiciary and that, in that context, it is very wise to leave the lead at the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	Everyone in the room has supported and supported the national option. Some of us, including myself, had a different preference, but they were not in it. Let us at least agree on one thing: if we want to choose this national option, we should not then put the Netherlands itself in a difficult position. That seems to me to be the consequence of jumping over the state's attorney's office and, as it were, acting as a prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	However, I would like to return to the Minister's position, which is that slow cooperation on a request for legal aid is certainly a matter of cooperation. How long can it be before the Minister says it was so slow that it is no longer cooperation at all? Is it possible to cooperate after five years? Or is cooperation after ten years working together? Where does the Minister put the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	Any slow cooperation is, of course, incredibly annoying, but the main objective is that the perpetrators should be brought to justice. It really doesn't help if Mr De Roon and I are here together, and it seems to be easy to see what time period the government is going to take a follow-up action. That would be really unwise for the main objective, which I think we all share, that the perpetrators should be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	I do not hear an answer, at least not to my question. I do have a follow-up point that I would like to put to the Minister. I would say that if you do not cooperate swiftly on a legal aid application and do not do what can be done within a few days, weeks or months, but delay for a long time, you will therefore frustrate the progress of the investigation. Then that's not cooperating. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	Then it is difficult to cooperate, as I have just said. I would like all countries in the world to have the same speedy and careful course of justice as the Netherlands and a number of neighbouring countries. Unfortunately, however, the world is not ideal and in a non-ideal world we must achieve the results that we want to achieve: trial of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'm going to go back to the other question, because there are two questions now. The Minister says that if the Public Prosecutor so requests, we will conclude a treaty with the Russian Federation on how suspects could be heard or punished, or that we will at least try to do so. I also realise that this will not be easy. Now there is a treaty that does two things to Ukraine: firstly, it transfers jurisdiction; secondly, it sets out how suspects from Ukraine may be questioned or how a sentence can be imposed on them. May I conclude from this that the prosecution has asked for a treaty with Ukraine on how Ukrainians are tried, but not a treaty with Russia on how Russian suspects could possibly be tried?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Omtzigt says in another way what I have already indicated. We don't have a request from the D.A.'s office yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	Has that ever been about Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	Sure. This whole process has been set up in close consultation with the D.A. The wording was chosen in close consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	Finally, on this point. But you don't have to, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr President, you are challenging me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	There was no challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	But I'm surprised that the prosecution did ask to arrange how to deal with Ukrainian suspects, but not Russian suspects. I expected both of them to happen at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	I suggest the Minister move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	I had come to Mr Sjoerdsma's question on a very different subject, namely the agreement between the security services on the exchange of information on the threat in airspace, as well as the motion he tabled on this issue. It has already been reported to the Chamber that the implementation of this motion does not mean that additional resources are needed at the moment. It is also appropriate to point out that the intelligence services do not currently have an independent role to seek worldwide all relevant information on the threat to civil aviation, and that such a task is virtually impossible. With all due respect for their work, the Dutch intelligence services cannot possibly monitor all threats against aviation worldwide in all areas, but if they have relevant information, they will share them. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked about the ICAO website. That is actually in the area of Mr van I and Mr M, but I will do my best. ICAO has chosen to use a library to refer to the websites of countries with information on conflict zones. ICAO recently asked its Member States for comments on the functioning of this system. The Netherlands has responded extensively, and yet with care, because relatively little is reported. Last Monday, the Secretary of State of I and M discussed this with the Secretary-General of ICAO and urged him to improve the functioning of the library. The ICAO Council is also soon to discuss an improvement in its operation. I come to Mrs Karabulut's questions. She asked how cooperation with Ukraine is going. In the criminal investigation Ukraine cooperates well. Both Mr Koenders and I have spoken to our colleagues about the conclusion of the Treaty. I met my colleague and signed the treaty with him. Ukraine is, of course, well aware that the potential parties involved in the shooting down of the MH17 may be on Ukrainian territory. Mrs Karabulut also asked if I had any reason to be concerned about future cooperation. To be honest, I don't. This is also seen by Ukraine as an incredibly important matter. It has the same ambition as us to bring the perpetrators to justice. Mrs Karabulut was the first to ask others later on whether the JIT could also bring personal prosecution for those who decided on keeping Ukrainian airspace open. The criminal investigation on which the treaty was concluded focuses on the perpetrators who shot down the MH17. Keeping the airspace open is not covered by such a criminal investigation. Ms Karabulut also asked about Russia's cooperation and specifically about the evidence provided. The recently transferred radar images are currently being studied by the Public Prosecutor's Office, so now we can't indicate what this will yield. Mr Voordewind also asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	If I understand correctly, the Minister said that the investigation team is not about prosecuting persons who could be held responsible for keeping airspace open. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	Such a question would be raised in the case of state liability, Mr Koenders will deal with it, and it is not part of the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	So to the why question will I later get an answer from the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	Yes. Mr Voordewind asked why the decision has now been taken. That has to do with the progress of the investigation by the D.A. When presenting the first results, at the end of 2016, the Public Prosecutor advised not to make a decision yet. Afterwards, research has progressed and we have had close consultations with the JIT countries, including at political level. We have spoken with Ukraine about the bilateral treaty. And the Public Prosecutor's Office came up with the opinion: choose national prosecutions, and the reasons for this are also explained in detail in the letter to the Chamber, as we see everything considering the greatest opportunity to bring the perpetrators to justice; make that choice now, because for the follow-up to the prosecution and the preparation of the trial, it is important that now is clear which route has been chosen. All JIT countries were found to agree. That is why we made that choice. Mr Van Ojik suggested that the grieving nations and the United Nations should also be involved in the sounding board group. That has not yet been fully completed. I have indicated that such a sounding board group is a logical interpretation of the involvement of all grieving nations. In the discussion we are having with the JIT countries, we take Mr Van Ojik's suggestion. Mr Omtzigt started with a question which I believe all of us have: can we prevent a court with an empty seat? The honest answer is that we will try with all our might to prevent that, but we cannot guarantee that. Everyone realizes that the perpetrators will try to stay out of the hands of the judge. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in putting them in the collar eventually. That's the bet. This is what these actions are aimed at and the timing of the actions is also aimed at. The agreement with Ukraine is also aimed at this, as is the consideration of whether there will be any follow-up agreements. We just talked about that. So we are doing our best by all means, but unfortunately we cannot give guarantees. Mr Omtzig also asked whether the Treaty with Ukraine, as it now stands, deals with state liability and the opening up of airspace. This treaty does not go into that. Following written questions put by Mr Omtzigt, he asked why the working arrangements between the intelligence services were made available to the public and not made public. The way intelligence works inevitably means that we cannot disclose how they work and what they know. As everyone understands, this would lead to applause in different countries and in part of the work also in the case of terrorists. Unfortunately, therefore, we cannot offer the Chamber more than the position of supervisor along the route of confidential inspection. The same applies to these documents. Mr Omtzigt also asked two questions in the field of I and M. One question was how the Covenant on Security Services and Airlines was evaluated. We sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter in July in which we outlined that this evaluation was carried out by an expert group, which looked at the functioning of the agreement with representatives from both the government and the airlines and the association of air pilots. As can be seen in the evaluation, this is largely satisfactory. In particular, Mr Omtzigt asked whether the airline Corendon complied with all the recommendations. Mr Omtzigt rightly pointed out that the information on where she flies on this airline's website is less extensive than that of other airlines. That's what I and M are talking to that airline about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	I have a few questions. I asked a question about the radar images of the United States. Perhaps the Foreign Minister will go into that, but the United States has offered to declassify these images. I have asked several times in writing whether the Dutch Government is prepared, if the court so requests, to ask the American Government to declassify it. After all, the former Foreign Minister, Mr Kerry, said just after taking down MH17: "We saw the rocket, we saw it hit, we saw it fail from the radar." Mrs Nuland, at the time Deputy Minister for European Affairs, indicated that America would be willing to declassify the radar images.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u64	I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yes. The other questions will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u66	I have to stay guilty for a while, but I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. I have two other questions. I wasn't concerned with the secret services working arrangements. We were not able to see them at all; I understand that very well in the case of the working arrangements of the secret services. It was the old version of the covenant, from 2013. That version has been made available to the public. I do not have the impression that the secret services would object if we had it publicly; let me say it very carefully. Is it possible to get that publicly and then have a discussion about how that was applied? I would really like to ask you to read that document yourself and to assess whether there can be a public debate on it. My second question is whether you can ask the Secretary of State of I and M to send us the expert group's report, because that helps us. So far we have seen exactly two sentences about it, namely that it has been evaluated and that it works. We know how important it is and we would just like to have a little more information about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u68	I would like to do the latter in writing, because that really is the area of Mr van I and Mr M. I now understand that Mr Omtzigt was referring to another piece, about the working arrangements between the employees. This type of agreement is actually subject to personal policy considerations. It's very operational. That is why we do not make it public in general. This is also common in WOB requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u69	Now my clog breaks. In 2013 agreements were made between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the NCTV and the airlines on how to deal with closed embassies, but also on a safe airspace. These are working arrangements on which the safety of Dutch people depends. So these are not personal policy concepts. Personal policy ideas are about what an official thinks. These are agreements about how we deal with important matters. Can the Minister indicate, perhaps in the second term, whether these are agreements that we can talk about publicly, whether they were good or not? These are really not policy ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u70	Now Mr Omtzigt mentions two things. He's talking about the involvement of security forces. I have already said that, for reasons which I believe are perfectly understandable, we will not make them known. I would add that, in the section he is referring to, it is specifically about personal policy ideas. Mr Omtzigt is now creating a bit of a picture of unwillingness on the part of the cabinet. Why would the cabinet be reluctant to do that? I can't imagine a cabinet that would want information on how security services operate. It is very common that there is a certain level of protection for the daily work of officials, by drawing a line between personal policy ideas and political policy choices. I have a bit of a problem with this being brought into an atmosphere of secrecy, because that is not the underlying objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u71	Perhaps there is a way out of this somewhat complicated dilemma. The cabinet has, of course, explicitly shared, at the Court's intercession, what the agreements are like, how they are laid down in a covenant and how cooperation on information sharing between airlines and the public authorities now works. So there's openness about what it's like now. I understand that the Minister finds it difficult to make this particular document public, but perhaps the Minister can look at whether this document and the agreements contained in this document are written down in such a way that what was agreed at the time is shared, without the sensitivities described by the Minister coming to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'll see if we can find the middle that way. I come to Mrs Chicken's questions. She went into the position of next of kin. She asked whether they could join the criminal proceedings for damages and whether this would also apply to foreign survivors. The answer to that is yes twice. One of the reasons why we chose to prosecute in the Netherlands is that the position of survivors in Dutch law is so strongly regulated. That is far from the case in all countries. This therefore applies to Dutch survivors and survivors from other countries. Mrs Kuik asked whether the rights of survivors were sufficiently guaranteed. They are regulated in the Criminal Code in such a way that, for example, one can see the relevant documents and one can be assisted by a lawyer who also offers sufficient support for the survivors in this particular process. Mr Van der Staaij specifically addressed the possibility of obtaining cooperation from the Russian Federation. That point has already been widely exchanged in the course of interruptions. Then I come to Mr Van Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u73	The Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u74	The Roon, sorry. Mr De Roon is disappointed that Ukraine has a ban on the extradition of nationals. I can share that disappointment in itself, but there are incredibly many countries that have such a ban. The Netherlands is quite unique in that it does not have this. Changing a constitution is not something we can force from the Netherlands and I would also be very surprised if another country would ask or force us to amend our Constitution, however unfortunate it is in this particular case. Mr De Roon also asked about the length of the investigation and about the recent call to witnesses. I know that Mr De Roon himself has worked at the Public Prosecutor's Office and therefore knows from practice that, unfortunately, it sometimes takes a long time to obtain evidence. He will no doubt also realize that, in a case like this with a great distance and countries with a complex political situation, it is much more complicated, but that in my opinion this does not mean that in the public prosecutor's office in his time, but also at this time, it does not mean that we are saying 'we are going to lose it' or 'we are going to get rid of it', but that it means that everything is being put on everything, even though it takes a long time and it takes a lot of effort to get the evidence on the table anyway. That explains why it takes a long time and why it may be necessary to take another step, such as the recent call to any witnesses. Finally, Mr De Roon asked why no request has yet been made to Ukraine to hand over the criminal proceedings. The Public Prosecutor's Office will make such a request at the moment when the criminal investigation really gives rise to such a request. The investigation isn't at that stage yet. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr Sjoerdsma, is there still a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u76	One more question. I was wondering if a decision has already been made on the location of the MH17 court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's an understandable question. Given the nature of the trial, the court of The Hague is the logical court to conduct this trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u79	Madam President. I too would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input in the first term. I would also like to express my appreciation for the support of the approach adopted in relation to the legal instruments for prosecution. I think it is important that this can count on strong support from the Dutch Parliament. At the beginning of my speech, perhaps it would be good to recall briefly the commemoration on 17 July, where the cabinet was also represented by the Prime Minister, myself and others. It is three years since the tragedy of flight MH17 took place. In Vijfhuizen, a truly impressive memorial took place, organized for and by those who have lost loved ones in the disaster, and that is what I know I am following this debate today. The memorial forest officially inaugurated by King Willem-Alexander on that day is a lasting, tangible memory for the next of kin and for our country as a whole. This commemoration has also attracted international interest through the media but also through the presence of a large number of representatives from various countries. There were relatives from abroad and also many ambassadors from the victim countries. The international reactions on that day and before I will come back to the international embedding of the national option we have now chosen with each other, showing that there is still a great international interest in MH17. It became clear from the statements of support from those countries that they have not forgotten this disaster and the victims. I myself, of course, still speak very often with my foreign colleagues on this subject. MH17 is also a permanent topic of conversation in the world press and on social media. There's still compassion for all the next of kin. Against this backdrop of broad international interest and support, we are debating this with each other today. I've had a few more questions. The Minister for Security and Justice has just explained in detail how and why we made the choice we made. The result of that careful decision is the choice of a national prosecution firmly embedded in international cooperation and international support. The Chamber has rightly asked a number of questions about this. This underlines the common interest of the countries concerned in prosecution and trial. Let me begin with the international involvement. I would like to stress once again that the decision of 5 July was taken jointly by the five JIT countries. The aim was to ensure that all the countries concerned commit themselves permanently to prosecution in the Netherlands and that they also agree on international cooperation and the method of support in the follow-up phase. International cooperation involves two things. Firstly, as the Minister for Security and Justice outlined, the bilateral MH17 treaty with Ukraine ensures that persecution in the Netherlands will cover all victims. This means that all survivors will have the same legal status. That's very important. In addition, international cooperation takes shape by continuing the good cooperation in the Joint Investigation Team in the follow-up phase. That's an important deal. International support means that the JIT countries agree among themselves that they will continue to work together in a lasting political sense in order to enable prosecution and trial, towards both the UN Security Council and the entire international community. This mutual support will be laid down in a Memorandum of Understanding signed later this year. I will discuss this again with the Foreign Ministers of the JIT countries in New York in two weeks' time. The agreements will go along with the following lines: stress that it is a shared responsibility to bring the matter to a successful conclusion; act jointly if another country tries to influence the course of justice; keep the United Nations informed about the state of affairs and, in general, joint communication to the outside world. The JIT countries have always spoken with one voice. That is also very important. This happened, for example, after the decision on the prosecution and after the publication of the initial results of the JIT. It is important that this unanimity should continue during prosecution and trial. That is why we are acting as proposed. All these agreements may seem self-evident, but they are nevertheless important to record. All JIT countries have committed themselves to cooperate in this and have also bilaterally committed to this support. That's important. You must imagine that it is countries that find each other because of this disaster, which do not normally cooperate logically in this way, but have a common goal and have remained together and will remain. It also became clear that the countries concerned want to bring about effective prosecution and trial, including in the interests of their own relatives. The cabinet therefore has complete confidence, as I say to Mr Ten Broeke, that we will continue to work together in the next phase, the persecution phase, as JIT countries. The JIT countries have also undertaken to commit themselves to national prosecution by contributing financially to it on a sustainable basis. Further arrangements are being made for the precise allocation of costs and how they are monitored. They will be recorded in a MoU, which we will sign later this year. A number of MPs have asked questions about the large group of grieving nations. Those nations were very essential, by the way. It was a whole group of countries from various parts of the world. They supported us then and they were also very important during the discussions we held in the UN Security Council. Unfortunately, as you know, the Russian veto came at that time. Nevertheless, that support was already there at the time. After we have concluded the financial agreements in MoU with the fellow Members of the JIT within a short period of time, the so-called grieving nations will also be asked if they are willing to make a symbolic financial contribution to the prosecution and trial. The countries concerned have already been informed of this, both in the capitals and in the embassies in The Hague. There are many grieving nations, international organisations and other third countries that already explicitly express their support after the publication of the decision to prosecute in the Netherlands. You asked for that. It concerns not only Germany, but also the United Kingdom, Canada, Romania, Israel and Ireland. The American administration has done so through a statement from the State Department. In addition, the High Representative, Ms Mogherini, made a supporting statement on behalf of the European Union. France, which had no victims on board, but is a member of the UN Security Council, has also expressed its support. Of course, we can send you all these written statements. I would just like to point out that the definition of active diplomacy in MoUHs determines the importance of the international community in that step-by-step approach that the Netherlands advocates. Those international players welcome the decision of the JIT countries, and emphasise the great confidence that exists in the independence and professionalism of the Dutch judicial system. In addition, all statements stress the importance of full cooperation in bringing those responsible to justice in accordance with UN Resolution 2166. As a cabinet, we continue to stress that taking down MH17 is a matter that has affected the whole world. International solidarity is evident from the facts I have just mentioned. We will also ensure that it is followed up in the various fora. This is done first and foremost within the framework of the UN Security Council. In line with Resolution 2166 the Security Council is kept informed of the relevant developments. The same is true of the choice of national prosecutions. We did that right away. On the day of the decision on 5 July, the Netherlands sent a letter on behalf of the JIT countries to the President of the Security Council and the Secretary-General of the United Nations. That was the eighth letter from the Netherlands to the UN Security Council, with the last letter dated 28 September 2016, following the publication of the initial results of the JIT. The Secretary-General of the United Nations himself personally issued a statement on 17 July in which he indicated that he had not only taken note of recent developments but also called on all countries to implement UN Security Council Resolution 2166. In this sense, he has actually done what was implicitly your request for all the countries in the world to cooperate. In the framework of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Dutch Permanent Representative has, of course, informed the other members of the OSCE of the situation. This is a felony with a high international component. Successful prosecution of the perpetrators therefore remains important for the entire international community. We are committed to this. After all, all countries have an interest in ensuring civil aviation safety as much as possible. The government will therefore continue its efforts at the next stage, also of course in the light of the questions you have asked, to maintain that high level of international support. I have a few brief comments on Ukraine, on the political context. In fact, the Minister of V and J has said all the necessary things about cooperation. That cooperation at MH17 went well from the first tragic beginning. Ukraine has helped with the recovery and repatriation. The technical research into the cause of the disaster is also left to the Netherlands. As you know, this was completed by the OVV in 2015. That essential role is essential. There is also always the importance of diplomatic investment. We do the same with my colleague Klimkin and others. These efforts are, of course, necessary, especially in a country which itself faces very great challenges, both internally and externally. With regard to the Russian Federation, I do not have much to add to what the Minister of V and J said about it. I think it has been made clear what our policy is with regard to the Russian Federation and requests for legal aid. I would like to say a few words in response to questions that have been raised about what is known as state liability. I will end with two answers with regard to other international organisations, the Chicago Convention and the International Criminal Court. Let me be brief but perhaps also clear about the state's liability. In addition to the important decision taken by the JIT countries regarding the modality of criminal prosecution, I would like to stress that from the outset, the Netherlands has not ruled out any option to bring justice to the relatives of the victims of taking down flight MH17. It concerns both options for criminal prosecution and options for making one or more States liable. Immediately after the take-down of flight MH17, a mapping of the options related to state liability has started. These options have been further developed since then. I can assure the Court that no commitments have been made at any time to third countries of any kind. You can think of all kinds of options. I do not want to go into this in too much detail, but it is a rather complicated matter. There is the International Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. However, I would like to stress that the referral of a case to this kind of international court is not an easy matter. Of course, questions relating to the jurisdiction of such a court in question and the admissibility of the plaintiff, in this case the Netherlands. This also involves the completeness of the file. That is why we have always said in time: it is important that we first place the cabinet's priority in the criminal investigation of the JIT. However, in order to complete the file-forming, elements of the criminal investigation may be relevant to the possible liability of one or more states for taking down flight MH17. I would like to leave it at that. Any speculation about or mention of individual countries is, I think, not good for the process. In order to meet the Chamber, I know that this is an important matter, and I would like to say that the government is prepared, also in response to questions from the Chamber, to enter into a further letter on the legal possibilities for making States liable. If possible, that letter will be available before the end of the year. I say 'if possible' because it depends on a number of technical elements: the establishment of a dossier and its actual legal examination. I'm not saying that to buy time. All options are open. We are doing everything we can to not only condemn individuals where possible. We take the other state liability options very seriously, but given what has been asked, I would like to leave it at that. In reply to Mrs Karabulut's question, I would like to say that the individual responsibility of potential culprits within Ukraine could be part of the investigation of the prosecution and the JIT. I can't comment on that. I don't know. However, should it go in the direction of state liability, the question arises as to whether, in this case, Ukraine has infringed a legal obligation towards the Netherlands. The OVV didn't make a ruling on that. I'm not saying this to directly relate it to a state liability case. We have made absolutely no decisions on this. I do not mention countries. But legally, it would fit into a matter of state liability. So it is really about whether a legal obligation has been violated. Mr Van Ojik asked a question about the Chicago Convention. The Ministry of I and M is the first designated department responsible for ICAO and the Chicago Convention. We support that department as Foreign Affairs for international and treaty-technical matters. It is possible to amend that convention. Article 94 of the Treaty provides that proposed amendments to the Convention must be approved by the General Assembly, by a two-thirds majority. Those amendments shall then enter into force for those States which have ratified such amendments when such ratification has been carried out by the number of Contracting States determined by the Assembly. This means that 128 Member States out of 191 members must have ratified the amendment to the Convention. The next meeting of the ICAO Assembly is scheduled for 2019. This will therefore take some time, which does not mean that in the meantime a large number of other activities should not take place to promote air safety. I refer to the Secretary of State of I and M, who is discussing this with the Chamber. Mr Van Ojik also asked a question about the International Criminal Court. Under the Rome Statute, the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court is complementary. Only if contracting parties are unwilling or unable to effectively investigate and prosecute, the International Criminal Court may prosecute the case under Article 17 of that Statute. Therefore, if the Netherlands prosecutes with regard to the bringing down of MH17, the International Criminal Court will not be able to investigate criminal prosecutions. The Dutch investigation and prosecution are effective and independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u80	Were you done answering your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u82	I understood from the report of the written consultation that the cabinet believes that the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, in the framework of the preliminary investigation into alleged crimes in Ukraine, as it is called decent, is investigating the taking down of the MH17. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u83	That's quite possible. This is a case of the International Criminal Court, in which the prosecutor is independent. She doesn't have to coordinate with us on that. If it is an element which also relates to what we are pursuing, the rule of complementarity applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u84	If that preliminary investigation is to take place, I say that under the authority of the cabinet, it would be interesting, precisely because we all think it is so important that this national prosecution will be internationally embedded, to consider how that can be complementary to the decision to prosecute under Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u85	I understand your question, though I cannot answer it. The International Criminal Court is independent and must act on the basis of its own treaty, based on the issue of complementarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u86	The Minister said a few things about state liability. It's not under the D.A.'s investigation right now. At what stage would that be discussed? Not until after the D.A.'s investigation has been completed? Who would initiate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u87	The option of state liability, should it be followed, will of course be initiated by the Dutch Government. The government will inform the Chamber about this, preferably before the end of the year. With regard to regularity, the only thing I would like to say is that it is important for any file formation in such complex cases, should such decisions be taken, that there is some kind of information or results relating to individual prosecutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u88	The Minister says he can say more about this at the end of the year. Is there a preliminary investigation going on right now? Will that investigation ultimately result in a trial, if that happens, at the International Court of Justice? Is that the gremium where that takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u89	As I said earlier, the government started mapping out all options, including those of state liability, right after taking down MH17. You know these legal options. I'm not going to make a ruling on that right now. That would be really unwise. This concerns, for example, the International Court of Justice or the European Court of Human Rights. You can think of different instruments and different things. I am not getting ahead of that now, even in the interests of the case or the possible case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u90	There is also a second term. Let me see if all the questions to the Foreign Minister have been answered and if there is a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u91	I have a brief question, Mr President, to get it all sharp. The individual responsibility for keeping airspace open is covered by the JIT and the state responsibility, at least the possibilities for doing so, is further examined and we will be informed by letter. Did I sum that up so correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u92	I hope I expressed myself well. I have no knowledge of who the JlT is dealing with. I'm not supposed to have that either. But when it comes to the individual responsibility of Ukrainian or other citizens with regard to taking down MH17, it would fit in there. It may also be that the Ukrainian government itself will find something of that. I don't know. When it comes to the responsibility of the State with regard to airspace........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm afraid I can't be clearer than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u93	We will therefore be informed of the latter by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u94	We will inform the Chamber further about the legal aspects of state liability. We hope then that we will be a little further on the aspects that I have just shared with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you. I see that there is a need for a second term. In that second term, I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the government for the comprehensive first-term response. I think that with this final phase, the stage of persecution and let's hope trial, we have reached a stage where we can show unity. Too many parties have tried to break us up in the past. It will not be any different in the future. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the recent interview in the Volkskrant of Brig-Gen Rietdijk on disinformation campaigns. In the context of the Ukraine debate that we held for two years and also in the context of the debate on MH17, motive and dedication of the Dutch state are constantly questioned. Sometimes that happens consciously and sometimes unconsciously, but it does happen. The NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence also pointed to the use of bots and fake theories. This is detrimental to the confidence that is needed just now to enter this phase. Especially in the case of a tragedy like this, which has caused so much pain, there should be no place for that. That is not good for the criminal investigation and also unfair to the next of kin. From this point of view, I would like to ask a final question about the little debate I had with the Minister of Justice on video conferencing and the suspects. Of course you can enforce that in the Netherlands. I would also like to have that situation with Ukraine. Suspects can't be forced to cooperate in their conviction, but they can be forced to appear, perhaps. It may also be in their own interest to do so. Perhaps they can still be convinced of that. In any case, it seems to me to be in the best interests of the next of kin. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his commitment to state liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the ministers for the first-term response and to join the call for unity, not to let us break up, not only through disinformation but also through conscious propaganda campaigns to create fog and question facts and to undermine conclusions. I do have a question about that international unit which the Foreign Minister is right to pay a great deal of attention to and he is also working hard on. Does it apply not only to the executioners, which we have just spoken about, but also to suspects who are high up in the tree? Then it becomes politically sensitive. Is that commitment of our partners there, too, so the same commitment as the commitment that our D.A. is showing at the moment? With regard to the agreements made with Ukraine at the request of the State, can Minister Blok tell us why the State only wanted to make agreements with Ukraine and not with Russia? Finally, on the capacity of the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. The cabinet is right to release resources to ensure that this great process can take place. I would just like to ask you to make sure that this big project, which will require a lot of capacity and energy, will not lead to criminals in the Netherlands being insufficiently dealt with or that the Justice and the Public Prosecutor will have a hard time getting through an unfeasible workload. So I would like to ask for care of the national side that is attached to this too. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to make the 2013 agreements public in a good way. That seems very important to me in order to be able to conduct the debate on flight safety. I would also ask the Minister to pass this on to his colleague from I and M. That website of former Secretary of State Mansveld has unfortunately turned out to be a soft one. I think we should see that. So there is still a lot of work ahead of us to actually improve that international system. We owe it to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut does not wish to speak. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik. He is speaking on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. I have already expressed my group's support in the first term for the way in which the cabinet deals with this terrible disaster. I am also very aware of the fact that it is very important for the Public Prosecutor to be able to do his own work independently. That is, of course, also true, as I say specifically to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. That does not alter the fact that if research is carried out at that level to bring down the MH17, we are following with extra interest what will come out of it and we are asking ourselves how this might strengthen national criminal proceedings. This in no way affects the autonomy of the International Criminal Court, as far as I am concerned. I remember that in the months following the disaster we talked a lot about the Chicago Convention and that the then Secretary of State of I and M spoke to the other Member States about it. I hope that the Minister will tell Mr van I and Mr M that it may be a bit long, at least in my view, to wait until 2019 to see if the gaps, which are obvious anyway, I have not given North Korea's recent example for nothing, can be repaired in a certain way. I am not going to go into those gaps myself, because there is no time for that, but I would appreciate it if that message were sent to those responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u100	I would like to endorse Mr Van Ojik's request. We have indeed consistently pointed to these gaps since 2015. They are linked to the sovereignty of countries over their own airspace, even in situations where such sovereignty can reasonably be contested. We have just been promised by the Foreign Minister that we will at least receive a letter on the legal consequences of state liability by the end of the year. I do not think it is impossible to add Mr Van Ojik's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their first reply. I'm just gonna stop by for a few more points. I shall begin with a point on which I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. We both find it very special that the D.A. did ask for agreements on what to do with Ukrainian suspects, but that this did not happen with regard to Russian suspects. We would like to have an explanation of this. I am also very curious about the declassification of American radar images. That question was asked about five, six times in the last year. We have not yet received an answer, but that answer would be given in the second period. The Minister of Security and Justice says he will consider whether the 2013 covenant can be made public or at least partially. The successor, the 2016 Covenant on Safe Flying, is also a covenant between the ministries and the airlines, which has been made public in its entirety. So I cannot imagine that the 2013 covenant cannot be made public because it contains methods or something else. We've seen it, too. In view of the discussion, I think it would be wise to have this document available to the public. Of course, an appointment with externals is not a personal policy idea. Also in the spring we heard that Corendon would be addressed on the non-follow-up of the OVV recommendation on where to fly safely. It was said again: we are going to address Corendon on this. In the meantime, in the intervening three months, did that happen? I find it very interesting that we will receive a letter on state liability. We've been asking for that for a long time. That's a very thorough thing. I understand you have to think very carefully about that, but I'm looking forward to that letter with great interest. The same applies to the evaluation of the police deployment at the MH17. We will receive that evaluation before 1 October. That commitment still stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u102	I shall come back to the declassification that Mr Omtzigt asked for. I understood from his term that it was not that point of frappez toujours, that point of that always starting again about declassifying radar images by the Americans, because we are at least out of it by now. The letter is clear about that, too. There has been inspection by the investigators and the security services. In this particular case, it concerns the question, which has also been asked by others for a long time in 2015, whether, for the purposes of the trial, what has already been declassified in a limited sense could be used in the courtroom itself. That's what Mr Omtzig meant, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u103	There is no such thing as declassifying in a limited way. You declassify and you have a piece made public, but it is indeed a matter of availability in court. So it doesn't have to be now, but it's about availability when it's necessary or when the defense wants it to be. I imagine the defense is asking: how can I verify that this evidence is correct? It is strange that the American government said at the end of 2014 through Mrs Nuland "if the Dutch authorities ask for it, we will declassify it," while we hear on the other side of the Dutch authorities that it is possible that even the court and the defence of the defendants will not have access to it and that it is a notice of office. I ask this question because the American Government has offered it, because if there is a trial with a ruling that is also accepted, then I think it is important to declassify as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u104	Now I think Mr Omtzigt himself says that as much as possible is declassified, but something is classified or not. It had been known for a long time that there has been access to those images. There has been a great deal of fog about whether this has indeed happened, but it has already been done for the purposes of research. We're finally past that. It is now a question of whether, in a courtroom situation, these images can also be used once more. In 2015 I asked for this myself. I know the answer to that was at the time, and we will hear it from the government in a moment that this will be very difficult for the parties that have to undertake to do so, because this will make the evidence itself less easy. If that gets in the way of a conviction, I wouldn't wish it. After all, the researchers have already seen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u105	An investigation by the OVV is of course different from a case before the court. This also means that you can keep something confidential with researchers, but in the court, of course, the defence also has certain rights. She also wants to know if those radar images really exist. You don't want this to be questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u106	Very briefly, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u107	That is true, of course, but the researchers who have seen it have also reported on it. That's that very nice O.V.V. report that's over there. That can certainly be used in a court of law. They can also be called as witnesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u108	A report on the original evidence is really different from the original evidence in a lawsuit. I hear what Mr Ten Broeke says outside the microphone: yes, if you do not get it. That is precisely why I am referring to Mrs Nuland. She herself offered to declassify it. So there is a certain willingness. I do not yet have a clear answer to my question as to whether this is being used. I'd like to get that from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. I continue to find one point unsatisfactory: the suspect bench for the Dutch MH17 judge remains empty if a Ukrainian suspect should be sitting there. That is why I propose the following construction to the Minister of Security and Justice. I ask him to give his opinion on that. Ukraine has agreed that the trial will take place in the Netherlands, even if it is a Ukrainian suspect. If they are convicted by the Dutch judge and that sentence becomes irrevocable, Ukraine will also execute that sentence. This actually shows Ukraine that it has the utmost confidence in the trial in the Netherlands. But Ukraine is also willing to put that Ukrainian suspect in preventive custody if the Dutch judge asks. Then it is only a small step to make the next appointment with Ukraine, namely that the suspect is detained in Ukraine under the responsibility of the Ukrainian authorities and that that preventive detention is temporarily enforced in the Netherlands to the extent necessary in connection with the presence of that suspect in his trial by the Dutch MH17 judge. Preventive detention will then continue temporarily in the Netherlands, still under the responsibility of Ukrainian law and the Ukrainian authorities, but he will be in the Netherlands for a while. We already know that construction when it comes to convicted suspects. They can also be temporarily imprisoned in another country. Then this must also be preventive. If the Minister doesn't think he can do that or doesn't want to do that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Ukrainian Constitution prevents the extradition of Ukrainian suspects of involvement in the take-down of flight MH17;]] [[Whereas Ukraine, as a member of the Joint Investigation Team MH17, should make every effort to bring any suspects of Ukrainian nationality to the Dutch courts in person;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to urge Ukraine to make it legally possible to extradite persons of Ukrainian nationality suspected of being involved in taking down flight MH17 for trial to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u110	It is a sympathetic objective, but the treaty we are talking about has yet to be presented to the Chamber for ratification. Has it been a consideration to consider in the ratification procedure whether matters could be introduced? I would also like to ask the government: when will it be submitted to the Chamber for ratification?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u111	I hope that the construction I have proposed can still be incorporated into that treaty, or if necessary into a separate treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u112	I'm just looking at the directors to see if they can answer directly. That's the case. I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, Mr Ten Broeke started with a call for unity. Fortunately, today, I noticed it to a great extent in the Chamber. He did so in the light of the fact that we know that the means of sowing disinformation is unfortunately also being used around this terrible tragedy. There is no doubt in his mind that there is a good chance that we will continue to be faced with reports in the media of people, journalists or others who come up with new facts or think they are. It is in the interests of the next of kin and of persecution that we take every signal seriously, but at the same time we do not run after every signal before there has been an opportunity to investigate it thoroughly. Mr Ten Broeke then referred again to the undesirable situation that a Ukrainian suspect does not appear before the video interview. We have no disagreement as to whether that is undesirable. Mr Ten Broeke is looking for an opportunity to impose more pressure on it. As much as I'd like to, I don't see any way to force a really reluctant suspect to participate in the trial. In the Netherlands, we do not actually have that option either. Even if someone is suspected of and convicted of terrible crimes, a suspect can remain silent in the Netherlands. That's terrible for the next of kin, but unfortunately I can't break it. Mr Sjoerdsma asked why the Public Prosecutor's Office has at present only requested agreements with Ukraine. I understand the question, but Mr Sjoerdsma also knows that the Minister of Justice can never provide information on the progress of an investigation. I would be forced to do so if I answered this question. I ask Mr Sjoerdsma, who began by expressing confidence and support in the procedure followed, to have the same confidence on this point that the Public Prosecutor's Office will give that signal at the time it considers it necessary and that it will receive the cooperation of the Dutch Government. Mr Sjoerdsma referred to the current workload for the Public Prosecutor's Office and later for the judiciary. That's for sure. There's a big team working incredibly hard on this. Both organisations work hard, always in an environment where resources are not unlimited and choices have to be made. It is my job to ensure that this can be done responsibly. I cannot promise that the funds will be unlimited, but I will really make sure that it can be justified. Mr Sjoerdsma stressed once again that the website with information on risks in airspace worldwide is not working properly at present. I have already indicated that my colleague from I and M also has this concern and that she has also passed it on to the Secretary-General of ICAO. Its aim is to improve it, because Mr Sjoerdsma is right to say that this is an unsatisfactory situation. Mr Omtzigt's first question has just been answered by Mr Sjoerdsma. Also with regard to radar images, the direction lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Not only did the OVV report indicate that Mr. Ten Broeke pointed this out, but also the Public Prosecutor's Office, during the presentation of the Joint Investigation Team, indicated that it had sufficient information to establish that the MH17 was brought down by a Buk from a specific location in eastern Ukraine and that the Buk had entered and left the Russian Federation across the border. Also on an essential part of the process, the radar images, I think it is purely that the Public Prosecutor is in the lead and that as a minister I am not going to add or stack any wishes on top of them. It has to be really clear: in a criminal trial, a trial, the Public Prosecutor's Office is in the lead and there is no political interference, no matter how logical all kinds of questions are. As far as the 2013 piece is concerned, I have already told Mr Sjoerdsma that I will consider whether it is possible to disclose some essential parts without damaging the position of the intelligence services or individual employees. Once again, this is not a question of unwillingness, but of ensuring that intelligence services and individual employees can do their job. But I will look for the route to which Mr Sjoerdsma pointed. I would like the question on Corendon to be answered in writing. I also had another question to I and M, which will be answered in writing. Mr De Roon once again expressed his concern and annoyance about the possibility of facing an empty suspect bench. He suggested that preventive detention could take place in the Netherlands. He called that a small step. The fact that a country includes in its constitution that extradition is not possible again, a lot of countries do so which makes this not a small step for the country. It is really not real to ask the Dutch Government to change its constitution. That is why I must advise against the motion tabled by Mr De Roon. It calls on another country to amend the constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u114	My suggestion to solve this problem in a convenient way is precisely that Ukraine does not hand over the suspect to the Netherlands. He's in prison in Ukraine, under Ukrainian law and according to a decision of a Ukrainian judge. This is happening at the request of the Netherlands, but it is a Ukrainian decision that he should be stuck there. You can, and I think that is a small step, agree between two countries that part of that period of pre-trial detention will not be served in Ukraine but in the Netherlands, according to all the rules Ukraine has on holding a preventively attached suspect. That's all you can do with each other. You can also agree that he will be present here and will be brought before the Dutch MH17 judge. When the trial is over, he'll just go back to Ukraine. Extradition, no; however, the defendant's presence at his trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u115	I have difficulty with the simplification that Mr De Roon is now giving. He suggests that there would be a construction in which a Ukrainian national would be in custody in the Netherlands, which would not be contrary to a constitution that explicitly prohibits it, as if not every Ukrainian who is placed in front of that situation would immediately go to the Ukrainian court and say: that is contrary to our constitution. Mr De Roon does so in a sort of context: the government is reluctant to encourage Ukraine to do so. I am trying to imagine the reaction of Mr De Roon's party when another country would ask the Netherlands to amend its Constitution. Well, the PVV would climb over the benches. Understandably, there are critical and concerned questions from all parties, but everyone had the line of united support for the Public Prosecutor's Office to do his important work to bring the villains to justice. This motion is now creating a tenor of: the government is not doing its best, because it is not forcing another country to change its constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u116	My motion indeed calls as an ultimatum remedium for Ukraine to amend the constitution. My suggestion doesn't require that. My suggestion is to consult with Ukraine on my suggestion and to discuss whether that can be a workable solution. That's what I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u117	On the motion, you are clear. Then you'd better understand that I'm deposing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Three questions have been asked to me. Firstly, that is the question of international solidarity and the question of how far the support of the international community goes when it comes to potential suspects who are high up in the tree. I can give a clear answer to that. The solidarity, the way we deal with each other and the agreements made in the JIT are independent of the level of suspects. The second concerns Mr Van Ojik's comment. I think he's right. It is of course important, on the basis of the autonomy of the International Criminal Court, to follow with great attention what is happening there and to see if synergy is possible in one way or another. The third concerns the question about the Chicago issue. I will, of course, pass these comments on to the Secretary of State of I and M. Let me say that she has of course not been idle and has been very active in this intermediate phase. At Dutch level, a covenant has been concluded between the Dutch government and the Dutch airlines to share information. The House of Representatives has also been informed about this. The consultation of the Covenant is also used to guide European consultation. Given the time, I won't go into all the details. But it is important to show that the Conflict Zone Information Bulletin (CZIB) is precisely the point the Secretary of State is very committed to. I will, of course, pass on the specific comments on the Chicago Convention. Let me conclude by saying that I have not only followed this debate with great appreciation, but also participated in it. I very much welcome the broad support in the Dutch Parliament for the choice of national persecution and a good international embedding that these countries have made together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u120	When are we going to see this treaty? The ratification of this is, of course, the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u121	This fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u122	2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u123	Yeah, this fall. 2017, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u125	This raises a number of questions. It is a bit weird that we have had a debate here on persecution, while of course we have a treaty which sets out exactly what can and cannot be done. It is very important for the CDA Group to treat this very well, because we must do everything we can to prevent that empty seat in the suspect bench, which we all fear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u126	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-7.u127	The motion tabled will be put to the vote next week.
