ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and all other directors, particularly those who are present for the first time in their present office at the plenary session of this Chamber. We are pleased to have the new cabinet almost entirely in our midst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to welcome the new government to our beautiful plenary. For months, the Prime Minister has taken it upon himself to forge a coalition agreement with his new friends, showing off the name "Confidence in the future." The name "Paid duty and mouth shut" would have been more appropriate. It would not have been as good for everyone, but it would have been much more transparent. Then the cabinet could have left out all the blabla intended to trick you. Perhaps the coalition agreement would have looked after an A4'. Because what is the point of this coalition agreement? Less in your wallet and less democracy, but more European Union and much more Islam. How can you have confidence in a cabinet that will keep you smilingly lightened, but in the meantime, the fiscal screws are turning a lot, starting with raising the low VAT rate? They include nutrition, water, medicines and aids. This will affect everyone in the wallet, especially the sick, the disabled and the families. This is clearly not a problem for the Christian Union and the CDA family parties. And while Jesse didn't jump, he's sitting on the Prime Minister's lap and licking the GroenLinks climate madness in his ear: higher environmental taxes and higher energy surcharges. The Prime Minister likes to use these climate lies not only because he likes to keep Jesse a friend, but also to make the cash register ring big with the government and the big multinationals. They can store and use the CO at taxpayers' expense. Apparently, the 1.4 billion-dollar gift for abolishing the dividend tax is not enough to stay friends with the big boys. Rising care premiums? No problem. Mistakers? Simply set aside in the care premium and put windfalls in your pocket to fill the gaps in the budget elsewhere, for example the towering costs of the asylum influx. While Henk and Ingrid go to the kilo-blaster, at the azc comes the judge's bearing. And while the Dutch families do not go on vacation, because the washing machine collapsed, the Mieles are on full swing in the azc's. The increase in the low VAT rate will instantly increase the prices of medicines and devices and thus also increase the cost of care and thus also the care premiums, care premiums that currently have 800,000 people crooked and at their own risk in the payment scheme. This, while asylum seekers do not have their own risk, do not pay a premium, nor do they pay their own contribution. What do you mean, equal treatment? Despite D66's fervent desire for "completed life," 1.9 billion more would go to nursing homes: coverage, lower costs in the new healthcare agreements. However, the CPB expects this windfall to be 1 billion lower. It may be that this is partly caused by the VAT increase. In this case, it is the cabinet itself that is chasing up the care premium. The question is: is there really 1.9 billion more going to the nursing homes? If so, how is this financed? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Running rents? No problem either. While the municipalities pay the rent for the status holders for the first two years, the Dutch are mercilessly awarded the annual rent increase and the reduction of the rent subsidies. Yeah, there's got to be a difference. The homeowners, then. This sacred cottage is also kicked in mercilessly. Have you properly repaid your mortgage, you will be mercilessly punished for repaying your debt. Apparently, this cabinet has the proposition: if the bank can pay off, so can we. And the abolition of the dividend tax on foreign investors must, of course, be paid for. Those homeowners, they're gonna stay put anyway. Especially the elderly are heavily screwed. They have often relieved their homes, taking into account the unreliable government, the rising costs and the increased AOW age. Instead of lowering the AOW age, this cabinet prefers to spend billions of euros on development aid. What about income tax? Is the flat tax gonna do something fun for us? Not really. The 5 billion that will be returned will first be picked up from the property owners. Then we are being fooled with these two rates. The Prime Minister must have thought: if gender can be liquid, then so can these rates. Under the surface are sneaky hidden income-dependent discounts, which for the largest group of citizens continue to force the overall tax burden mercilessly step by step. This tax deception affects almost all workers from the age of 22 as soon as they reach just a little above the minimum wage. After they take away the previewed load relief, 1.5 million voices are taken away. Without glances or blush, the party leaders of the VVD and the CDA wrote a letter stating that they would rather stand up for Islam and were 800,000 supporters than for the 1.5 million PVV voters. Apparently, CDA really means Christians serving Allah. After the 1.5 million PVV votes have been called, it is up to the consultative referendum. The Prime Minister pulled the craziest chatter to turn the Ukrainian referendum's legitimate no-voice into a yes. The CDA turned its position smoothly and eventually voted for the Ukraine Treaty after the elections. The CDA simply committed taqqiya. For those who are not aware of this phenomenon: this is an accepted act within the Islamic world, which allows to lie if this is the only way to achieve your intended result. Apparently, the CDA already ranks for an Islamic Netherlands. In order to avoid such embarrassing situations, this small moment of participation of the electorate in the coming cabinet period is simply turned upside down. This shows that this cabinet has nothing to do with the opinion of the citizen. The cabinet has more to do with squeezing the citizen. We're not here yet. This cabinet is leading the Netherlands into an ever-expanding and federal Europe. A European Union that increasingly pushes its way from democracy to so-called 'human rights'. "Human rights" sounds nice, but it's the bomb under democracy. In democracy, equal rights apply in equal cases. If we are talking about human rights today, we are talking about equal rights in unequal cases. This opens the door, next to the open borders, to the Islamisation of the Netherlands, which is in full swing. Besides the fact that Islamization is being rolled out by the elite, there is also literally more and more Islam pouring into our country. So-called "confused" terrorists, camouflaged by the flow of migrants, slip into Europe. Refugee, hardened IS fighters, who have happily killed, tortured and raped, are working their way across Europe to mercilessly terrorize the defenceless population. Instead of closing the borders, this is being outsourced against a massive payment of billions of euros to an unreliable country such as Turkey, a country that is not so close to the borders and has occupied a large part of Cyprus for decades and is trying to plant a fifth column across borders using Turkey-funded mosques, where imams do not hesitate to give a vote advice to the Turkish Dutch. Once again, having a double nationality makes the appearance against an unconditional Dutch loyalty. The same applies to rulers and politicians. Hundreds of mosques rise in our cities. Each mosque is a flag of the occupier. Each mosque is an administrative center of the expanding Islamic enclaves, with its own Islamic rules. All this is made possible by freedom of religion and by human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u4	Madam President. I've listened to it again for a while and I'm not very surprised. The Fifth Column came again. I thought we agreed on that. But Mrs Faber now says: every mosque is a flag of the occupier. You can say anything in this house, but can she explain what that is? Then who's the occupier? Are those Dutch citizens who live here and have decided not to go to the Catholic or Protestant church or to go to the church at all, but to the Islamic church? Are those the occupiers? Would you care to explain that, Mrs Faber? You can easily say something, but in this house of democracy you should also vouch for the words you say. So explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u5	Yes. Firstly, I would like to comment on what Mr Kox says about the agreements we would have made on 'the fifth column'. I'd like to point out to you, Mr. Kox, that we've had a commission working in the First Chamber here. A proposal came out of that committee. That proposal states that we can simply discuss all the facts and matters here. In addition, we now have the General Political Reviews. That is the only debate in the whole year in which we are allowed to highlight everything. So I'm just allowed to talk about that fifth column. Then you say: can you explain why a mosque is a flag of the occupier? I can explain that. That mosque is a result of Islam. And as Erdogan says, the mosques are our barracks, and the believers are our soldiers. Those are really Erdogan's words. And Erdogan is certainly one of the connoisseurs in the field of Islam, you are not going to deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u6	I've been able to meet Mr. Erdogan repeatedly. He is a powerful man, but to hear from Mrs Faber's mouth that he is a powerful man in the Islamic church and teachings, would surprise him even. Mr. Erdogan is the President of Turkey. How can you say that man speaks for Islam? Islam is a world religion. A lot of people are members of it, for good or bad reasons. How can you make the link that, if you are a member of that religion, you are wearing a flag of the occupier? Does that also apply to Hindus, Catholics, Protestants or Anglicans, or to atheists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u7	Firstly, I would like to say that Islam is not a religion; that is an ideology. That aside, although I would like that to be clear, because if I answered it as if it were a religion, I would have gotten it right in front of me. And I really wonder which stone Mr Kox crawled from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u8	The Catholic stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u9	Underneath the Catholic stone? Well, then you have had the privilege that you could have been under the Catholic stone, because if we continue with this ongoing Islamization, that stone will still be taken from you. I would also like to say this. Erdogan is the President of Turkey, the leader of Turkey. Anyone who is somewhat aware of that country knows that Turkey is an Islamic country. And Erdogan has planted his mosques here, which he also finances, where he puts his own imams and brings his message here. That's what we saw back then in Rotterdam: in no time he had just a few hundred Turks on the bridge to demonstrate. So don't be silly and say: how can you say that about Erdogan and Islam? Well, if you don't get that, I'm really wondering how you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u10	Finally, Mr. Kox. I would like to end this discussion, so a short question and a brief response from Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr President, it is perfectly understandable that you want to end it, but I am bothered by it every time, and that is why I feel that I have this task every time. It bothers me when in this house colleagues say "I can say what I want" and it doesn't seem to matter what you say you want anymore. You have freedom of speech here, but to express an opinion, you have to think about what you say, not just open your mouth and let an avalanche of discriminatory language come out of it. That hurts in a house where we'll commemorate democracy for a hundred years next week. One final comment for Mrs Faber. Erdogan is the president of Turkey and therefore the boss of Islam? Our King is the boss of the Netherlands, our head of state. Is that why we are a Protestant-Christian nation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u12	I'm not saying Mr. Erdogan is in charge of Islam. He's a supporter of Islam...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u13	We already knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u14	...and a connoisseur par excellence of Islam. Do you know what it is? Look, Mr. Kox always has some trouble with facts being brought forward. Then he always gets emotional, so apparently I just hit a nerve with Mr. Kox. Anyway... What do you say, Mrs. Jorritsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u15	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u16	Maybe Mrs. Jorritsma can walk to the microphone, then she can do an interruption instead of bleating out of her bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u17	No, Mrs Faber and Mrs Jorritsma. Mrs. Jorritsma, if you have anything to say, please go to the microphone. And, Mrs Faber, you're not responding to that, because the microphone hadn't spoken. Please continue with your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr President, you are right. I only have to react when someone is at the microphone; you're right. I need to see where I left off. I'm gonna go back right now, or I'm gonna miss my line. I was talking about the mosques that rise in our cities. Each mosque is a flag of the occupier and each mosque is an administrative center of the expanding Islamic enclaves, with its own Islamic rules. All this is made possible by freedom of religion and by human rights. This makes integration policy a farce. Migration without integration is colonization. And those colonists come in with tens of thousands to be cared for. It is time for family reunification, after having settled in the priority free-styled home. And that while our elders, after sharing love and suffering for a lifetime, are torn apart when one of them becomes needy. Really outrageous. Apparently, they have no right to be together. At present, family reunification is based on 3.5 passengers per settler. With this cabinet's plans to recalibrate parenthood, which can easily play into the hands of polygamy, you shouldn't be surprised when one daddy is about to bring in four mommies. And then it is time for the assistance, in which most of the migrants end up. It doesn't matter how many nationalities you have or what nationality you have; with the open borders, the whole world can benefit from Dutch assistance. At least if you play it a little handy. Complete madness! As far as PVV is concerned, migrants can only benefit from social security benefits if they have been legally employed in the Netherlands for ten years. Just to be clear: asylum seekers, alias lucky seekers, should not work here at all. They must leave the country, starting with the 70,000 Syrians who are waiting for a permanent residence permit. When Syrians go home to celebrate the Sugar Festival, they can roll up their sleeves and get started in their own country and build their own country. Why isn't that happening? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. Does Mrs Faber really mean that Syrians can go back to their own country? To Syria, where at the moment there is still a huge war raging and that is completely broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u20	I see they're going home to celebrate the Sugar Festival. So you can just go there. Otherwise, you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mrs Faber says she sees that. I'm curious about facts. I can't wait to see where and how she saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u22	I didn't see it myself. I heard it and I got it from the pieces. Because I'm not coming to Syria. I don't think it's very convenient to go to Syria as a PVV. I know you walk the door flat in that kind of area, because you're the hugger of migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mrs Faber, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u24	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u25	And if I may recommend one thing, and this applies to everyone, preferably not to the person himself. Let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr President, I thought we had agreed on that. It seems very sensible that Mrs Faber should not go to Syria. Unfortunately, I would not recommend that at this time. I would also like to tell Mrs Faber that we still have the Refugee Convention to be respected here and that we will not force anyone to return to a country where he fears persecution. I hope Mrs Faber shares that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u27	This is interesting. Mrs. Strik is talking about refugees. They're not refugees, they're just migrants. So at least we agree on that. They're just migrants. They're not refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mrs. Strik, just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u29	"They're just migrants." I can't do much with that. Refugees are some sort of migrants, but they are people who are looking for protection. Mrs Faber mentioned asylum seekers earlier. Those are people who are indeed asking for protection here. If Mrs Faber is talking about Syrians, then each of them will be given that status, because they need that protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u30	This is gonna be interesting. Mrs. Strik says refugees are like migrants. What are they? Are they refugees or are they migrants? It's not entirely clear either, but I think they're just migrants. They can simply be safely received in the surrounding region, but instead of staying there, they are going to a whole different continent, because there is more to be gained here. You can do some nice things here that you can't do at home. I asked the Prime Minister why the Syrians are not sent home. We can then use these exemptions to eliminate our own risk and reduce the healthcare premium for the Dutch. Mr. Chairman. In the enclaves around the mosque, the neighborhood fathers have to guard the order, because the police no longer have authority. The police are only welcome to join the eiftar meal, complete in uniform, though without headscarf. Recently, the Minister for Justice and Security tried to make good use of the judgment of the College of Human Rights. But in the meantime, the police are on their knees in uniform at the mosque, instead of just making an arrest. I am not even talking about the allowed dual nationality of the police, the positive discrimination in the recruitment of police officers and the organisation of eiftars by the police themselves, complete with prayer calls and Quran instructions by, for example, Khalil Aitblal, board member and spokesperson of the Blue Mosque in Amsterdam. You know, that mosque that's funded from Qatar and Kuwait and connected to the Muslim Brotherhood. Last week the police reported proudly that they visited the Diyanetmoskee "That's by the way the mosque of Erdogan "Haaksbergen." She was even allowed to experience the afternoon prayer. For the record: Diyanet mosques are part of Erdogan's long arm. Mr. Chairman. How long has it been...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u31	I thought the point of Islam was almost over, but I'm not sure. I do have a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mrs Faber has 12 minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u33	I do not know if I can wait that long to ask, Madam President. Let me try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u34	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you. I have heard Mrs Faber accuse the cabinet a number of times of all kinds of things relating to values and standards, especially Islam. I am so curious if she would also like to say something about what we have to say about it from our Jewish-Christian values. What does she want to give the cabinet that the cabinet should try to do something with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u36	That's one word: de-islamize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u37	It is very cleverly formulated with one word, but I can imagine that the cabinet does not have enough. I can also imagine that Mrs Faber, from her Jewish-Christian tradition, could mention a number of things that are important to our society. I'd like to hear that from her, too. That would perhaps make the argument a little more balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u38	This cabinet probably does not understand and does not want to understand what de-Islamicisation means. That's why we want to send it home. That's why the cabinet needs to leave as soon as possible. We do want to de-islamize. We want the borders closed. We want the mosques closed. We want to forbid the Qur'an, the whole rata plan. As far as PVV is concerned, there is no room for Islam, because of that all the misery comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr Schalk, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u40	Finally, Madam President. Now imagine that the cabinet would obey you. Could you then indicate what you would like to replace it with? Then what Jewish-Christian value do you wish to promote in our society? According to your reasoning, the cabinet has a problem. What could be the opposite when de-Islamicisation is a fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u41	We don't have to argue with it at all. Just de-islamize and ready. We shouldn't make it so hard. It's just very simple: just de-islamize. Don't put anything against it and get ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr Schalk, you have now asked the question three times, but I think you will receive no answer other than that given to you by Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u43	I'm gonna have to do with it. It sounds like a void. I'd like to fill it out. I hope this will be discussed tonight, one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u44	I propose that Mr Schalk fill that out in his own term. I don't have to fill that out, because we just don't want it. Okay, I was talking about the police and the eiftar. The question to the cabinet is: how long is this cabinet going to allow this idiotry? Is the Minister of Justice and Security going to do something about this? The police must be neutral and must not be a sign of Islam. Right? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. After the neighborhood fathers, this cabinet thinks it's time to use canton judges as district judges. These district judges should then be relieved by mediation in the civil and administrative judicial domain. This is what a sharia court is about. The question to the cabinet is therefore: can it exclude mosque authorities from playing a role in this mediation? Such practices already exist in the United Kingdom. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. More and more products are labelled with a halal certificate. This certification is an important asset for Islamic organisations and has a market value of over 600 billion dollars. Apart from the fact that the halal market is a means of controlling the economy, it is also claimed that part of the proceeds of this certification and the sale of halal food are used to finance terrorist organisations, including Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood. Is the Prime Minister aware that there are strong suspicions that the proceeds of halal products and their certification support terrorist organisations? If so, what action has the Prime Minister taken against this, so that this is not possible from the Netherlands? If not, is the Prime Minister prepared to investigate this further? Mr. Chairman. Then there is another point of inequality that deserves further explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u45	We gradually gain a little more insight into the ideology of the PVV. I heard Mrs Faber say: close borders, close mosques, ban Koran, ban Islamites out. She described this skillfully as the whole rata plan. She added: human rights away and halaletes also dangerously away. Let me ask Mrs Faber the following question. We're members of the States General. This obliges us to be faithful to the Constitution and to the laws of this country. I think I'm putting it so well. Does Mrs Faber see any room within our Constitution and within the laws of our country for the list I have just listed, which is not complete? Or does she add to her litany: if that is not possible, then also remove the Constitution and the laws of this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u46	I am not saying that the Constitution should go away, but I stand by my view that we should de-Islamicise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u47	But our Constitution is not an empty shell. I don't know if you've ever knocked it open, but there's really something in it. It says, for example, that you have freedom of speech and of religion and that you are free to do whatever you want, for example halal food or a fry with. It's all up to you in this country. You're saying that all of that has to go away. You also say that people who are born and raised here and who, according to your party, have the wrong religion must leave the country. I can ask Mrs Faber: do you think you can achieve this within the framework of the Constitution and the laws to which you and I have sworn allegiance? If the Constitution and the laws of this country do not allow it, what does this mean for the PVV? And just once, are you really clear? Are you then consistent and say: then the Constitution and the laws of the country must be removed, because the PVV will and must have its way and de-islamize this country at all costs? If that's what you really think, and I think it is, then you should be a woman too and dare say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u48	First of all... I didn't tell you to get all the Muslims out. Islamites who are Dutch are, of course, difficult to deactivate. I think you should choose. I think it is perfectly normal that people who come to live here and become Dutch take one nationality. Then you can make a choice. But they don't, because they don't want to choose the Netherlands for 100%. That's where the crux is. I have said it before: there is no question of integration, but colonisation. In addition, we see Islam as an ideology. There is therefore no freedom of religion for it, because it is an ideology. And actions you do from an ideology or religion must, of course, be in line with our laws and regulations. And you mentioned discrimination: within Islam there is discrimination...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr President, I asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u50	Wait a minute, that's up to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mrs Faber is still working on her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u52	I understand, Mr Kox, that he is eager to give his opinion, but I really was still speaking; thank you very much for that. If we look at the discrimination between men and women, it is clear within Islam. You just want to facilitate all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u53	I asked you a question, Mrs Faber. Does Mrs Faber and her PVV think that the litany that I have just mentioned close borders, close mosques, ban Koran, ban Islamists from the country, expatriate human rights, halal eat the country from being able to realize within the Constitution and the laws of this country, to which the members of the PVV, the SP and all the other people in this Chamber have sworn faithfully? If not, is the ultimate consequence of the argument that the PVV says: so does the Constitution and the laws go away? That could be true, because you're here free to think and say what you want. And don't keep a whole story of everything else, because you're bringing in all sorts of things. Just answer my question. It can't be too hard, even for a PVV guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u54	Well, well, well, that's quite a strong statement: "even for a PVV'er." Anyway, Mr. Kox is getting a little emotional about this debate because I'm probably hitting a delicate string. That's okay, because we're human and we have emotions. I have emotions, too. Only now I have them under better control than you do. Anyway, I'm sticking to the point of de-Islamicization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u55	But also answer my question!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u56	Yes, I'm going to answer your question. You may stand but also remain seated!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mrs Faber, ho, ho. I'll take care of the order here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes, through the chairman. Apologies. You take care of the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u59	Up to three times Mr. Kox has asked the same question. He'd like an answer. What you're trying to say is up to you, but would you like to keep it brief? And then through me, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yes, Madam President, through you I say the following to Mr. Kox. I've got to get something back, otherwise my story doesn't add up. We are in favour of de-Islamicisation and can see what is possible through the law. If that can't be done entirely by law, then that law just needs to be changed. Then we will make every effort to do so. I hope I have been able to give you some satisfaction with my answer. No? Well, there's nothing I can do about it. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna move on and have to see where I left off after this interruption. Oh, yes, I was talking about halal certification and now I come to another point of inequality that deserves further explanation. While the corporal at Defense can scrub the pavement, count the pens and even risk being fired if he or she has a foreign partner, a Dutch minister is married to the right hand of the late Arafat, one of the biggest terrorists. Let me be clear: I am not saying that the Minister is wrong, but I cannot understand and explain it. That is why I ask the Prime Minister for a more detailed explanation of this contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u61	I had planned to let this embarrassing hour pass quickly, but I can't resist asking a question about this. You say, "Not the Minister," but you mean the Minister's husband. He'd be a terrorist, too? Would you mind explaining what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u62	I did not say that the Minister's husband is a terrorist; I did not say that. I've only made the comparison with a corporal in the Defense Department. If he builds it with a foreign partner, he can count pens, scrub the sidewalk or lose his job, while a Dutch minister is married to the late Arafat's right hand. That's what I said. Mr. De Graaf shouldn't be twisting my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mrs Faber's suggestions and insinuations are really terrible. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u64	I'm not ashamed at all. I think other people should be ashamed of themselves, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this cabinet does not choose the common Dutchman. It prefers to play Sinterklaas for the big multinationals, to deposit money in the bottomless pit of development aid, and to coddle and take care of the happiness seekers. The ordinary Dutchman gets the blackbird played, with higher housing costs, less care but higher care premiums, more expensive groceries, higher environmental taxes, less control, open borders and less safety. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch are discriminated against, and we are just sick of it. Together with Mr Wilders, I have therefore filed a complaint against Prime Minister Rutte, supported by tens of thousands of statements of support and more than one hundred examples. At the time of the declaration, it was noted that there were no pre-printed forms, while the number of statements of support was 36 000. I have here a whole list of discrimination against Dutch people. I'll mention a few. For asylum seekers there is no own risk, for Dutch people there is. For asylum seekers free physiotherapy, not for Dutch. Free hearing aids for asylum seekers, not for Dutch. For asylum seekers free maternity care, not for Dutch. For asylum seekers free glasses, not for Dutch. High-age people are divorced after 70 years of marriage when admitted to a nursing home, but asylum seekers are entitled to family reunification. I have an entire laundry list here, which I will not read out completely, but I would like to say that if the Prime Minister can eliminate this discrimination, then we can withdraw our declaration. If that's not a handout... If the Prime Minister does a hand-off to the Dutch, we can do a hand-off to the Prime Minister. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. It's not a question of lack of money. It's a matter of making the right choices. The PVV chooses our country. Thus, the surplus payment to reduce rents, invest in police and security, use money for development aid to reduce the AOW age, not abolish the dividend tax but use the money to keep the mortgage interest deduction, the Hills Act and VAT intact, withdraw all the temporary residence permits of Syrians and use the released finances to abolish the own risk and reduce the care premium, and abolish the expat scheme and reverse the half-time of domestic aid with this money immediately. Because the Netherlands is our country. We're not gonna let anyone take that away from us. Not by Prime Minister Rutte, not by this cabinet, not by the European Union and certainly not by Islam. Thank you for your attention and we look forward to the Government's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. We've never had it better, but it's just a question of whether it stays that way. After all, we live in an era where power shifts at global level, resulting in geopolitical shocks, disruptive upheavals, uncontrolled migration flows, fundamental uncertainty and continuous change in both the geopolitical force field and our immediate living environment. Finding the right path on this rapidly changing chaotic and unpredictable world stage is vital for answering the question of whether future generations will be as good as we are. A difficult task, because the only constant is that everything changes constantly, but it is certainly not an impossible task. We must have the courage to make uncomfortable choices sometimes. This calls for a common approach, but it seems as if it is more difficult than easier. The VVD Group is convinced that these developments alone require a very open and positive attitude towards the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. Together, in a rapidly changing world, we are stronger than alone. In addition, the rapid digitisation and the need to tackle the climate also brings about a transformation of awesomeness, causing some professions to disappear and many other professions to join. Twenty years ago no one had heard of cybercrime, now it is a huge challenge to combat it. This also leads to uncertainty, which everyone, whether you are a politician or not, should be aware of. We all need to prepare for that new future. If we add that the old certainties of the church, the associations and the old-fashioned civil society are disappearing or have lost interest, then there is a mix of factors that we should not be surprised that people I also count myself uncomfortable with. It is up to us to make at least one attempt there, as far as that is within our reach, to restore order and to contribute our stone to replace uncertainties with new certainty. However, sticking to the old will not bring us any further. Fortunately, as Dutch people, we are in a unique position of exception. We have implemented reforms in many areas at an early stage, making our economy good, reducing unemployment at a rapid rate, which will speed up even older people back up, and reducing youth unemployment to below the pre-crisis level. There's a coalition agreement after a long negotiation. Closed by four parties that are in some ways far apart, but which have found each other in the shared ambition to provide an answer, piece by piece, to the aforementioned uncertainties. My group wholeheartedly supports this ambition, but this is a critical comment in this debate. Because that shared ambition is not self-evident. Not in politics, where the struggle for self-righteousness in recent years seems to be gaining more and more from the desire to do the good things. But also not in society where despite good intentions and beautiful laws a growing group of people wonder if the government is still there for them. Let me start with that political battle. In recent years, the political and social debate has increasingly degenerate into a competition. Who uses most capitals, who puts the fastest tweet, who's first in Hilversum tonight to say shame? Sometimes that fight is justified. We can disagree, both in this Chamber and on the other side, on whether something is a problem, whether the proposed solution works, whether a government decision is needed, but if that struggle to be the first, the loudest, or the most present leads to us just talking to each other and not talking to each other, something is going to go wrong. I think we just witnessed that a little bit. Frankly, I also found the debate on the Hills Act to be a very bad example of this. Most people have completely missed what it was about and at least the whole of the Netherlands knows what the word "filibuster" means. We know a history of polders, of making together land where that country has not yet been. I hope that in the coming years we will be able to fill in the shared ambition to make life a little better for the citizens of the Netherlands every day. Mr. Chairman. The task of the First Chamber is to assess legislation on quality, and we are talking about legality, efficiency, and enforcement, but above all about feasibility, and I would like to go into this in more detail. The title of the coalition agreement is "Confidence in the future." That's a very nice ambition. An ambition that fits with an optimistic country that stands for it. But that confidence does not yet have everyone, partly because of what I said at the beginning and the question is whether it is actually translated into the coalition agreement. There is a broad consensus that we should leave people at the wheel again: individual people in the direction of their own lives, professionals in the performance of their tasks. Many of the policies of previous Cabinets were therefore aimed at returning the direction to the people involved in that policy. Decentralisations in the social domain have been used to provide people with tailor-made care and support. The abolition of rules in healthcare, education and other places was aimed at making the work of professionals easier. But what you see is that people often don't experience it as nice or as it should be. And what's that all about? The question is: have we really let go, or are we still trying to control by stacks of protocols, regulations, formal requirements and so on? And by "we," I mean not only the government but also the employers of the professionals, the insurers and also the other governments. Often we stack rule by rule. Isn't it high time that in many areas the chain was properly vetted and not with the help of another consultant who is going to come up with something new to provide a solution, but simply through the vertical chain, so the citizens themselves, the professionals themselves, whether they are teachers, caregivers, police officers or people who, for example, have to provide all kinds of supplements by looking together with all those people who actually do the work, at what really is needed to do your job first, but also to provide a simple but effective accountability? Everyone understands that there has to be accountability, but a lot of people really don't understand how complicated it has to be. Everyone understands that you have to try to prevent fraud and that you have to answer for public money, but if that turns into distrust of everyone we go too far. Together, we have an expensive duty to ensure that what is proposed with the best of intentions is practicable and, above all, understandable in practice. Because an arrangement that you need to promote in order to understand its functioning is not a good arrangement for people who are already getting lost in bureaucracy. Without reintroducing a new test, I would like to see legislation, but even more so in implementing rules, particularly in terms of comprehension. I would like the Prime Minister to make this a priority and to take action together with his rulers. What I mean is to involve people in the implementation and implementation of rules. Ask them if it works, if it's understandable, if they can get away with it. Because especially for those people who often call on the government, who can use a little support in the back, it is important that they also understand that same government. As far as the First Chamber is concerned, therefore, we have to pay even more attention to this feasibility, especially if legislation is complex, and that is often the case, unfortunately, and has become even more complex as a result of amendment. Mr. Chairman. Following this more general introduction, there are a few files that I would like to zoom in on specifically today. These are taxes and public finances, that is our concern, that is the climate, and that is our role as a country in the turbulent world around us. I will start with public finances and taxes. A lot has been said about this in the House of Representatives and in the media over the past few weeks. Of course, no one pays too much tax for their pleasure. I don't, you don't, the rest of the Netherlands don't, and neither do companies. But those taxes are there for a reason. We all want there to be good education, our roads to be maintained, there to be care, there to be enough policemen. If I wanted to sum up everything we all expect from the government, we'd be here for a while. My group therefore believes that everyone should pay their share of taxes. We must try to maintain the good tax moral, fortunately, in the Netherlands. We wholeheartedly support the government's plans to tackle, for example, letterbox companies which are only used in the Netherlands to move profits without creating structural jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u67	I am pleased to hear that Mrs Jorritsma will support the policy of tackling the Netherlands as a tax haven. At least that is what I am tasting from your last words, and you also want to tackle tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u68	We're not a tax haven, and we shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u69	No, but especially a little less paradise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u70	Hello, may I have a moment, Mrs. Strik? This way, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u71	However, I think it is a bold remark from Mrs Jorritsma that everyone has to pay their taxes while we are all shocked by the abolition of dividend taxation and the reduction of corporation tax, as stated in the coalition agreement. How can you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u72	I'll get right to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mrs. Strik may speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u74	I am very curious how you reconcile this with your mantra, which I very much support, that everyone has to pay their taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u75	For companies established in the Netherlands or intending to do so in the future, they should, on the one hand, contribute in the form of taxes to the facilities they benefit from, but on the other hand, they should be able to rely on a locational environment that makes it attractive to invest in our country. I think there is an interesting package of legislation to accompany that. Can the Prime Minister take us back into the considerations that led to this package? In the past, moreover, my group has repeatedly advocated the abolition of the remainder of the dividend tax. Because the Netherlands is not an island. We're a small country with a big economy. If you want to grow that economy, it takes capital. The reality is that there are more investors living outside the Netherlands than within the Netherlands. It is especially important for Dutch companies to be able to raise capital from abroad. This will create sustainable jobs for our larger companies, but also for suppliers, in the service sector and ultimately also for SMEs. A favourable locational environment provides employment The EEA, which has just been brought in, is also a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mrs Jorritsma's whole story assumes that the abolition of the dividend tax is important for becoming attractive...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u77	Keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u78	...for large companies of investment. Over the last few weeks, we have heard incredibly many researchers and experts questioning that very much. It was said that it depends on many other factors why companies decide to settle in the Netherlands. So what does Mrs Jorritsma still base the view that this measure makes our locational environment attractive? Does it not also share the conclusions of many scientists that ultimately they do not even benefit the companies themselves financially, but that they are ultimately only other countries with which we have concluded tax treaties, where the money then goes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u79	Moreover, I believe that in the countries with which we have concluded tax treaties there is no tax on dividends at all. It is precisely the countries with which we do not have them or where dividend taxes have never existed. But we have said before that it is a remnant of a piece of legislation. In the coming weeks, moreover, there will undoubtedly be extensive discussion of this in the financial considerations. But this is a remnant of a tax. An old granny from Chile who wants to buy Philips shares for her pension, has to pay dividend tax in the Netherlands when she has nothing in the Netherlands, has nothing with the Netherlands. That's weird. If she does it from a company on the English Stock Exchange, she doesn't have to. It is especially true for a country like the Netherlands, which is just small. A country such as Germany or France has enormous internal capital that can simply be used for the companies there. We don't. We are a very small country, and we have big companies. Happy, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u80	Finally, Mrs Jorritsma really made the main argument that it is necessary to have an attractive locational climate. What's she basing that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u81	I did not say that about this alone, I said that about the whole package. There is a package of measures. In some cases, this is also a burden increase. This includes, for example, the fight against letterbox companies. There are also other burdens in the package. On balance, there is no reduction in the burden on industry at all. If you look at the tax package, it just isn't. This is a remnant of something that we say is weird that we still do. There's room for doing it now, and it certainly helps. If it didn't work, you could also raise it to 100%. Then it could be punishmentless if it didn't serve any purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u82	Very briefly, Mrs Strik, finally. And finally, I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u83	I regret that Mrs Jorritsma does not put forward any arguments to show that it is indeed necessary to keep these large companies here, while we have heard from all sides other factors, such as good education, a good housing market and you name it, which allow workers to have a pleasant life here. I have not yet heard from you any argument as to why this dividend tax would be decisive for the big companies to stay here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr President, I think I have mentioned a number of other arguments for this. For many countries we have long abolished the dividend tax. Everywhere in Europe, it doesn't apply anymore. In the Netherlands, a Dutch person does not have to pay a dividend tax. He'll be able to offset that immediately with his income tax. So it is a strange piece of tax that still exists, which we say is wise to get rid of if there is room for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u85	I'm a little lost, too. Mrs Jorritsma just argued in favour of keeping legislation intelligible. And that plea was taken from my heart. But a bill which I believe is primarily intended to favour large international companies, explaining on the basis of a Chilean granny who would act on the London Stock Exchange is a little over my head. I also feel that it is not a very realistic example. But this aside. The question I have for Mrs Jorritsma is whether her party has not just been a little nervous about the Brexit. If I am right, the United Kingdom is the only other European country where the dividend tax is 0%. All the other countries around us are asking between 5% and sometimes even 20% to 25% dividend tax. So the current Dutch competitive position in the dividend tax is not so bad, is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u86	In practice, the dividend tax is not paid in all these countries either because it is allowed to be charged by European regulations everywhere. If you have 90% capital within your own country to invest, that's fine. No one's gonna notice. That is different in the Netherlands. Two. I didn't just talk about the dividend tax either. By the way, there is no legislative proposal yet. I am talking about the package of legislation that is to come. The dividend tax is part of that. It's about the total. And about that total, we say it looks balanced. It's not my party either, it's from the cabinet. We judge that and say that it seems to us an attractive package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u87	I say 'Mrs. Jorritsma's party' because I see the other parties in the coalition increasingly being very uncomfortable about this proposal. However, if it is part of a package, we will see it coming and we will certainly discuss it further during the General Financial Reviews. But I still have one more question. Mrs Jorritsma just pointed out that if we give large international companies this advantage and spend 1.4 billion Dutch taxpayers' money on it, this ultimately, if you let the ball roll over long enough, will lead to more jobs for SMEs. To be honest, that reminds me a bit of the story the Republicans in the United States have just given huge tax breaks to the most wealthy. That seems to ultimately, through a complicated reasoning, to provide more money for ordinary people. But if this is the aim of this measure, which ultimately increases the number of jobs in SMEs, why does this coalition increase the low VAT rate, which is very bad for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises? Indeed, there are stacks of small businesses that are being priced out of the market by this VAT increase and that are no longer able to compete against those large international companies that are getting a douche bag from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u88	It may be too far to repeat the whole story, but I mentioned the package of legislation for companies. And if you take out the VAT increase alone, that's way too simple. It is also a package with a reduction in income tax, a reduction in all kinds of tax rebates, the elderly discount, etc., and so on, which makes people's purchasing power even better than before, because it simply reduces the actual burden on citizens. It is not at all so that nowhere does it say any evidence that it is going to bankrupt stacks of companies. I don't believe any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mrs. Barth, but for a very short time. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u90	The key question as to whether such a tax package will increase employment is not only what happens to people's purchasing power, but also where it is attractive to spend that purchasing power. Because that ultimately causes more or less employment. Therefore, the VAT measure is a bad plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u91	I always find it very special that parties who have always argued for a shift of work to tax products suddenly take out one tax. Actually, I don't hear about the IB. I find that very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mrs. Barth, really, all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr President, this is entrapment. You saw it. I was almost there. The Labour Party has never contributed to a VAT increase. We voted against the increase in the high VAT rate in 2012. We have just ruled for five years and in all these five years VAT has not been increased. That didn't happen for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u94	I heard Mrs. Jorritsma say something interesting. She told us that the abolition of the dividend tax is not a VVD thing, but a cabinet thing. Messages I read that this was really a VVD thing are not true. Thanks for that, which means there'll be room. Mrs Jorritsma thought it was a good idea, but if the facts on which Mrs Jorritsma is based now prove to be different, it might give room for further discussion with this Chamber. Mrs Jorritsma said just now: it has also been abolished in the rest of Europe. It is true, I inform Mrs Jorritsma, that in Germany there is 25% dividend tax, in Belgium 30%, in France 30%, in Italy 26%, in Spain 19% and even in Greece 10%. In Malta, Slovakia, Monaco, Hungary and Great Britain they pay nothing. Mrs Jorritsma's assumption that the dividend tax has disappeared everywhere is not correct; in our surrounding Europe it is everywhere. Could that lead to a reflection on whether or not this is perhaps the best measure by the VVD Group in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u95	In fact, our group here in this Chamber has called for it to be done earlier. Why? Because the dividend tax in the rest of Europe can be offset by other internal taxes. So if you invest within a country, you don't pay anywhere in Europe. Germans who own shares on the Dutch stock exchange do not pay dividends on what they have here. They may also offset that in Germany. In Europe we have arranged this neatly with each other. We have not dealt with this only for a number of countries. This does not apply to companies, but to investors. It's people who invest in that kind of thing. We think it's justifiable for you to solve that. Moreover, the overall package is, of course, the one for which we are getting a little more enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mrs. Jorritsma really misses it. I call her the countries that tax dividends, just like the Netherlands. She says that's not true. Then prove otherwise. I think these are the percentages that apply in our neighbouring countries. By the way, it is not Chilean old grannies who use this. The vast majority of this tax advantage is likely to go to the treasury of other countries, because of their clearing mechanisms, and to large investors. It's not about poor people getting their AOW or anything. Mrs Jorritsma knows that too, but my question is simply: if it turns out that there is really very little under this big tax rebate, is there any discussion with the VVD about whether the money can be used in a better way? Especially since you said it's not a VVD thingy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u97	We have assessed the tax package so far and we are enthusiastic about it. So, for the time being, we do not intend to put it in a huge way. It is also true that other people will soon have to pay taxes in their own country. If we're gonna do the math like that, you're not gonna have to export anything anymore. For each product purchased abroad, VAT is paid in its own country. We're not gonna get that either. If you're gonna count that, you're actually not gonna be able to move at all. Then you must do everything within the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u98	Mr. Kox, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u99	Perhaps Mrs Jorritsma can come back to it in the second term. I have mentioned percentages that are currently valid in our neighbouring countries. The Netherlands will abolish its dividend tax. The question is: if that were the case, could this lead to some room for manoeuvre in the VVD Group to talk about this specific tax rebate? Mrs Jorritsma herself said that we must base ourselves on facts. I'll give you a few facts. Can I at least hear you come back to that in the second term? It would be a shame for you to make a decision that is not supported by facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u100	The decisions will not be taken until the legislative proposals are here. That's how it works in this country. But I have just reminded you that in those other countries too, the national investors, the people who invest within that country, are entitled to take into account their income tax. Yeah, that's how it works. There too, the inhabitants of the country do not actually pay it. In fact, the whole of Europe does not pay here either, because we have agreed to do so. Only where that doesn't apply, it is. That is why my group has already argued in favour of abolishing it. Mr. Chairman. We, as a group, also consider the tax package aimed at citizens to be a good balance. Of course, we still have to assess every legislative proposal that follows from that individually, so we will come back to that part of next week and some of it in the course of next year. At the bottom of the line, most Dutch people are making progress and that is important. Because trust in the future also has to do with the certainty that you can direct your own life. The certainty that working pays off and that you can also reap the benefits if you make a career by putting your shoulders on it. Moreover, in view of what I said at the beginning about feasibility and comprehensibility, it is also time to consider whether things could be simpler. We shall come back to that again next weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u101	I hear Mrs Jorritsma say that all Dutch people are making progress. But we are simply going to have a cost increase of 3.4 billion. Well, then, I'd like you to give me a more detailed explanation of what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u102	The tax package includes a tax relief of 5 billion. If you add the tax measures together, most Dutch people are left at the bottom of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u103	Well, Madam President, I have to say, this is just bullshit. Because we are just getting 3.4 billion more burdens for our choices. Mrs Jorritsma may say "5 billion relief," but we would simply get an increase of 9 billion. They've already flattened it a little bit, but under the line, we're just gonna pay 3.4 billion more. So it's just bullshit to tell you what you're doing here, Mrs. Jorritsma, I'm telling you through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u104	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u105	This wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u106	I take note of Mrs Faber's view. "In der Beschränkung zegt sich erst der Meister." I indicated in my introduction that we must have confidence in the people who stand with their feet in the mud every day. The mad bureaucracy in care shows that if we have not completely lost it, we certainly risk losing that trust. Two weeks ago, neighbourhood nurses revolted because they spend more time on forms than giving good care, according to the district nurses. Do all these rules come from The Hague? No. That is a pity, because then it would be easy to solve; then we can abolish some. But it's much more complicated and complex. That's an excuse we don't really want to hear anymore. Anyone involved in the care must really get to work to ensure that the trust can be returned to the people who deserve it. This applies to the ministers and the Secretary of State, but also to health insurers, to industry organisations, to supervisors, employers and also to the people themselves who roll up their sleeves and work in healthcare every day. They have to work together. Delete those unnecessary rules and accept that we will have to do so if something can sometimes go wrong. And that the solution to this is not always even stronger, almost never is to create new rules. The challenges in the care sector are huge in the coming years. In order to ensure that care costs do not rise again more rapidly than economic growth, there is a need to re-establish core agreements in curative care. At the same time, we must ensure that the quality of our care for the elderly increases. Extra money is available for that. But we shouldn't pretend that money is the only solution. Because there are also good nursing homes now. Let the less good learn something from that. And also give the professionals on the workplace the space they deserve to do their job, because that's what they're for. From care to climate. It seems like a huge transition, but nothing is less true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u107	Mr President, I apologise: Mrs Jorritsma went a little faster than I thought. She was just talking about the extra money available to care for the elderly. With us, the next question is about that money. It is, of course, very important that the quality of nursing homes and nursing homes is in order and that no one has to doubt it. The fact that billions will be made available for this is excellent. At the same time, you would also like to see the quality of care for the elderly at home improved, so that fewer people have the need to go to such a nursing home or nursing home. How does Mrs Jorritsma view this? Could the money that will be available for this specialized inpatient care also be used to improve home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u108	I actually think that these are discussions that should take place in another place, namely on the other side. We do not really have any discussions about this at all, because we do not need laws for that. But there's something I can count on. I assume that you will say something about this later in your speech. Then I wonder what the Prime Minister will say about that. It's both necessary, I'd say. From care to climate. It seems like a huge transition, but nothing is less true. It is precisely if we want to live and work pleasantly in the future that it is also important that we take account of the challenge ahead. We all have an interest in the climate, but we are also all attached to our way of life. If the government told us that from tomorrow we only eat vegetables, use the bike and wash ourselves with rainwater, the country would be too small. Because change also requires support. If we want to work seriously on tackling climate problems and the energy transition, then we need to make sure that people want to make that change with us. In that respect, the omens are in themselves beneficial. People are increasingly choosing to place solar panels on their rooftops. Do they only do that for the environment? No, of course not. But that shows that people make sensible choices if we can offer them a sensible alternative. New homes consume much less energy and are increasingly even energy neutral, especially when people build the house themselves. Because that's what they want. So we know that people are willing to contribute to solving climate problems, sometimes out of idealism, often because they themselves are reaping the benefits. That's good news. It is now up to the Cabinet to come up with proposals quickly to transform the Paris Agreement into concrete measures and to propose that we convert our dependence on polluting or outdated energy into cleaner and greener energy. This calls for concrete objectives and also for an action perspective for co-governments, for companies and perhaps most of all for our inhabitants. Can the Prime Minister tell us when we can expect these proposals? I've got one warning for that. Be careful not to make laws and plans that only suit today's inventions. Make sure that tomorrow's inventions fit as much as possible within the laws and plans that are being devised. It is precisely with this energy transition that the smart minds and the smart entrepreneurs in the Netherlands can solve the problem. Give them room to come up with good ideas. That also requires something from the government. The Delta Act and the Delta Programme provide a proven framework for our water safety, for the availability of fresh water for food production, households and industry, for tackling water pollution and water shortages and for combating heat stress in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mrs. Jorritsma says that this transition needs to be made. We have been told by the Plan Office for the Environment that the plans now contained in the government agreement will only achieve half the objectives. Is Mrs Jorritsma also of the opinion that we need to step up our efforts in this cabinet period, that we should let those good-looking heads make those plans so that we can achieve those objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u110	If I have read the coalition agreement correctly, that is exactly what it says. It has been said that we are going to stick to Paris. Further plans and effects will be made to achieve these objectives. I therefore assume that I have also asked that these concrete plans will reach us in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u111	Okay, that's good. We assume that the VVD will therefore support it in order to really raise that percentage. But for the time being, in the coalition agreement, we see that the focus is very much on CO storage, on capturing emissions. Both industry and other organisations have made it clear that this is very difficult to realise and that you are not actually addressing the causes. You put dirt away at the end of the journey, but you don't invest in more renewable energy. Does Mrs Jorritsma consider this to be an effective use of the resources we use for the transition? That's one. Just now, Mrs Jorritsma indicated that we need to make laws and policies that are feasible and effective. How does she look at the concerns about not being able to achieve the CO storage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u112	I think the most effective method is one where CO really gets a prize. I wish we could do that. Let us try to imagine very much, even more so, in all our party brothers who are active elsewhere in Europe, that this will be done. I think so, but that's my private opinion that that's the only really good method. Everything else will be more complicated, complex and expensive. If storage helps for a while, then that can never be other than a temporary solution, then perhaps that will have to be done. But I'd like to look forward to the cabinet's plans. Let's give them some time to really work out these plans and come up with some good proposals. Once again, I hope that they will succeed in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mrs. Strik, I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u114	Finally. I hope that you will indeed encourage the government to do so and that ambition will also be shown at European level. I am pleased to hear that you also see CO storage mainly as a patchwork and that I have you on my side for more ambitious measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u115	It's annoying, but Mrs. Strik says something different than I said. I said CO storage will hardly be any different than a temporary solution, but it's not a patch. It can certainly help for temporaryity. Again, if CO gets more expensive quickly, then maybe we all don't have to. Then it's gonna be different. But, frankly, the omens from Europe do not seem to me to be very optimistic about this. Mr. Chairman. The new Environment Act also offers opportunities to anchor these interests in coherence, but that can only be done if the government implements those laws really well. In addition to the state government, this applies explicitly to local authorities. Our knowledge of water can be of great value both to ourselves and to the rest of the world. Dry feet are very important for countries that have to deal with rising sea levels. For other countries, the fight against drought is at least as important. If we can help countries suffering from drought by sharing our knowledge of water and sustainable food production, then much misery can be avoided. This also applies to misery that passes from other countries to Europe. Drought, bad harvests and a shortage of clean drinking water are partly responsible for hunger, war and other misery in Africa. The Netherlands is not an island. We are a small and prosperous country in a world that has become more complicated and unsafe in recent years, as I said at the beginning. Our knowledge of water is one of the means we have to cope with geopolitical developments in the world. This is particularly true of the refugee problem. People are quite willing to offer a safe haven to those who are really fleeing war. But at the same time they are concerned about whether the Netherlands can cope with that influx. The solution to this problem requires a pragmatic approach, the willingness to cooperate at European level, but also the willingness to agree with countries around Europe, even if those countries do not in all cases meet our democratic standards. If we want people to be cared for as much as possible in the region they come from, then we must be prepared to support those countries and make agreements with them. This is important for the support for the reception of genuine refugees in the Netherlands and for the stability of the countries receiving refugees in the region, but also for tackling the profit model of smugglers who are now sending people into the sea in crummy boats with all the consequences. As I said at the beginning, geopolitical developments and disruptive events have led to an unpredictable and explosive mix of military and non-military threats that make our place in the world uncertain. The government will have to respond to this uncertainty. It must do so by working together in the European Union, in NATO and in the United Nations, but also by opting for real cooperation with others if opportunities arise to increase the security of the Netherlands and stability in the world. Additional resources for the postal network and for investments in the armed forces are an important first step. I'm deliberately talking about a first step... Mr President, I see that my last piece of paper has disappeared. That's really annoying. I need my iPad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u116	Shall I give you my last piece of paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr. Schalk, you wanted to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u118	Yeah, I offered my last piece of paper. That would have been useful, because Mrs Faber would have had an answer right away. But I'm afraid Mrs Faber doesn't hear it. I had a question about DOD. Mrs Jorritsma is undoubtedly discussing her text. I had a question about what she said about the defence budget and the defence budget, which I attached to it. The NATO standard is still 2%. We're far from there. This cabinet is taking a big step; I think we can congratulate them on that. Would Mrs Jorritsma think that at the moment when things are getting better economically, the cabinet should at least look at an accelerated step towards this NATO standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u119	I've been a minister for eight years, and I know we've been working with spending standards since Zalm's ministry. So if there is more economic growth, it is not automatically that spending is going up. That's what stabilizers are and I don't know. The VVD has included in its election programme that we will have to reach that 2% in the long term. I would like to see that as a standard that we will grow towards in the future. Or that could increase further in this period? First, let's try to get this money put away in a good way. I'm sure we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you for telling Mrs Jorritsma that she wants to grow to that 2%. As far as salmon standard is concerned, I think that she of this Chamber is best placed to talk to Mr. Zalm about what he meant in that area, so I'm sure that's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u121	It doesn't make much sense to talk to Mr. Zalm about that. I fear that this time we should do that with Mr Hoekstra, and I believe that he is quite bound by the same system that is still being used. Honestly, I used to be quite happy with that and I still think I am happy with that. But that is a personal note, I say in the direction of my group, because perhaps they think differently. Mr. Chairman. I was at the first step. After decades of austerity, the armed forces have been severely undermined. Indeed, with the planned investment of 1.5 billion, we are still a long way from both NATO's 2% standard and the 1.5% European average. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the cabinet's ambitions are for the future. Can it also indicate when the investment ratio will be met per arm of the armed forces? Mr. Chairman. Before concluding, I would like to say a few words about the state committee which looks at the operation of our democracy. That committee came at the request of the First and Second Chambers. In the coalition agreement I read that the cabinet is supposed to expand the research mission. What is the underlying idea? In fact, we do not think it acceptable that the cabinet should now try to amend a mandate drawn up by both Chambers. The VVD Group is not in favour of this, and I really hope that the cabinet will refrain from doing so. Can the Prime Minister explain exactly what that means? Finally. I'm glad the cabinet's here. In order to give us confidence in the future, it is important that the plans that have been put on paper should now be speeded up. At the bottom of the line, we see extra money being allocated to our security, care, education, infrastructure. Moreover, taxes for most people go down. On paper a balanced story. Paper is patient, but my group, like most people, is not. We are therefore eagerly waiting for the first concrete proposals, and we are always keen to know how these concrete proposals actually work out for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u123	Madam President. It is good to consider the coalition agreement and the budget on behalf of the largest political group in this Chamber after rabbi on the right and right. I promise you, that's another story. May I begin by congratulating the Prime Minister and his team? And can I wish everyone behind the government table good luck? Being an executive is special but also quite heavy. You do it all to yourself, but I feel sorry for you, too. And I realize it's hard to say no when Mark calls Rutte. Seduction is an art and the Prime Minister understands it like no other. Compared to him, I think the Greek sirens were benevolent amateurs. Think about it. After the Prime Minister, in Rutte I, completely surprised us by giving radical right-wing a leading role in his government, and then, in Rutte II, managed to draw his left-wing counterpart across the bridge, he now, in Rutte III, seduced a trio of former opposition parties to get on his government boat, again at the helm. It is clear that our Prime Minister is not unique, but he is also not clear. How can one man lead three such different cabinets? Is there a vision behind that? Or not, because "vision is like an elephant obstructing your sight"? Or does his boat generally follow the same course and does the captain only change on occasion of crew? May I ask the Prime Minister, what does this cabinet intend to do? Madam President. The results of the elections were complicated. So I'm not going to complain that it took so long, although of course it took a very long time! Never did it take so long for a coalition agreement to come. And it's never taken so many words to tell us what was agreed. With more than 40,000 words, we have received the longest coalition agreement in modern history. That's what the Leiden University scholars have been doing for us. To get this far, there is plenty of open doors, empty full sentences, repetitions and tile wisdom. The coalition chord executed as regersoufflé, prepared with lots of hot air. That's how we know our Prime Minister. But even without that there are a lot of words left, which do say something. My question to the Prime Minister: does a government that goes for "trust in the future" really need such a flood of words? Or does mutual trust not go far enough and each party wants to see exactly what has been brought in? In Leiden they also counted about which the coalition agreement mainly goes and does not. There is a relatively high proportion of labour market, care, migration, education, energy and the environment, as well as agriculture and food. Fine. On the other hand, there is very little in it about macro-economics. They note in Leiden that the crisis is apparently over for the cabinet, measured by the remarkably small number of words. Our government is happy to write: "The world has never been as prosperous and developed as it is at present." Well, at least that applies to the richest 1% of the world's population. It now has as much power as all the other people in the world put together. That has indeed never been shown before. And those other people have to live one in ten of €2 a day. It's just what you mean by "prosperous" and "developed." Oxfam Novib says the world is getting richer and more unequal. Seven out of ten people live in a country where the gap between rich and poor increases. And poverty cannot be eradicated in practice if inequality is not addressed. The increasing concentration of wealth in the hands of few is not a natural phenomenon, but the result of a political choice or looking away from politics. The big money dominates more and more the policies of governments and the lives of the small ones, elsewhere and with us. This increases the chances of future crises: financial, economic and also moral. This Chamber had already considered this at the request of the Christian Union. We should do it again. Madam President. That only ten years ago capitalism was on the loose and caused global, also domestic, disruption of society, seems to this government to be largely forgotten. The same applies to those responsible for the crisis. The shame of that time has long passed, with banks, companies, investors and blindly behind them runaway directors. It's business as usual again. Their economy is running like a thriller. Their profits are shooting through the ceilings again. What about the rich? They just get richer, just like before the crisis. With us, too. Nearly 70% of the total capital in the Netherlands is now owned by the richest 10% of the population. There's nothing about that in the coalition agreement. Nor is it true that the poorest 10% of the population account for 65 billion in debt and that there is a relationship between appalling wealth and shocking poverty. "If a lot of people are left behind, eventually the whole society is at stake," isn't it, Prime Minister? That is what you yourself write in the coalition agreement. Well, how is this coalition agreement going to ensure that those who are left behind can come back and be part of it again? Madam President. Certainly, the government does not cheat when it says: "The economy is growing, employment is attracting, unemployment is falling and public finances are getting back on track." But what kind of economy is it actually growing? And why do we not count on the destruction of the living environment and human capital when we determine that growth? Who gets the new jobs, what jobs are they and who doesn't get them? And why not spend the fruits of growth first and foremost on repairing what has been destroyed over the past decade by predatory capitalism and a stupid austerity policy? The coalition agreement does do something about repair, and that is fine; our support for that. But on many proposals we say: see first and then believe. Many words in the coalition agreement say little. Take a sentence like this, about the police: "Additional resources are available to increase capacity, provided that the flexibilisation agenda is continued and that pinching frameworks, including sector-specific restrictions on the Working Time Act, are removed." Rara police cap, what does that say, Mr. Prime Minister? I don't know. Much of what the coalition agreement wants depends on other agreements to be concluded, but how can you conclude a climate and energy agreement if large consumers get their billions of dollars in their energy bill every year and therefore continue to burn their kerosene tax-free if aircraft continue to burn their kerosene, while the energy bill of ordinary households increases by around €260, as their own house calculates? And sustainable agreements in education and care really need more than the government agreement now offers. And let's face it: thanks to action, the teachers are getting more, but still too little. And thanks to action the own risk in the care no longer rises, but it must of course go down and, much better, completely away because a fine on being sick does not fit in a civilized country. Madam President. It's true that the economy is attracting. This is good for those who get a job again and can stop their own pants, but to what extent does government policy contribute to this? And doesn't the government cheer too easily when she calls us "good" starting point together? It's just where you stand, Mr. Prime Minister. Put yourself in the shoes of one of the hundreds of thousands of people who are still and often out of work for a long time, with generally low incomes, not too much education and often of a higher age. And put yourself in one of those young disabled people whose Wajong benefit is going down again. Imagine being someone with a disability who no longer needs to earn the minimum wage from this government and get a supplement somewhere. And think about it, especially at a time when for many people the wonderful evening is approaching, that 320,000 to 400,000 children who grow up in our kingdom in poverty, are afraid that Saint Nicholas will pass their cottage tomorrow quietly, because their parents' bank accounts are red-colored. Speaking of starting points, those who grow up in poverty are more likely to have poor health, lower than average school outcomes and poorly paid jobs. I think that before we close our debate here tomorrow, we should have agreed with this government that we are now really going to tackle this contemporary disgrace, of large-scale child poverty in one of the richest countries in the world. The preliminary work has already been done, after this Chamber has previously adopted a motion from my colleague Mr Bastiaan van Apeldoorn, which led to a thorough examination and proposals by the Economic and Social Council and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. The House of Representatives wants a quantitative target on reducing child poverty. The previous Secretary of State referred its execution to this new cabinet but it is not in the coalition agreement. So that's still got to be done. Madam President. For once, let me quote Hans Wiegel and say that I hope we can say here next year: 'Sinterklaas exists, and that's where it sits!' Let this Prime Minister really work on tackling child poverty. Our hearts are full of expectation, but this file needs to be measured now, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u124	The cabinet can undoubtedly defend itself and will do so tomorrow, but in view of the sense of Mr Kox that there is nothing in the coalition agreement, I would like to read something from the coalition agreement, on page 27: "The cabinet will make additional resources available for the prevention of debt and the fight against poverty, especially among children'. No amounts are mentioned; so it is not quantified, but it is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u125	That's right. This is the only time that the word "poverty" and children are associated, also once in a paragraph about the rest of the world. But I think I agree with Mr Kuiper that this disgrace that affects the Netherlands deserves more than just this remark. We have already adopted motions on this subject here in this Chamber. If the Prime Minister and the coalition partners can make it clear to me that this sentence means that we are indeed going to do what is necessary and that we are going to establish a reduction plan so that we can get rid of this child poverty, I am pleased with that. But I am afraid, Mr Kuiper, that this is not meant by the coalition agreement. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister about this. Once again, this is not just a matter for my party, because I know that this is very important for many parties. "There can be a lot in this country," says the Prime Minister in the very first paragraph of this coalition agreement, "if we want to and do it together." Tackling poverty among children, children whose social security numbers and parents we know all about, must be done. What I have seen so far is that we are all saying this, but the figures remain extremely worrying, including the figures that we have been presented again this week. I therefore appeal here to the government, but also to the other groups, to do business about this these days. Madam President. My group promises the government the firm opposition that every coalition deserves in a functioning democracy. We do that according to our established rule: what is good can go through, what is bad can go away. "In doing so, evil is our first task," said Minister Donker Curtius, almost 170 years ago about the First Chamber. He rather left the good founders on the other side. But if we can do it here, we won't leave it. We are not waiting for the proposals of the Parliamentary system committee. Madam President. Stopping the bad isn't easy, but it can be done. For example, this Chamber only managed to get the rather silly intention to withdraw from UNIDO membership at the time the Netherlands became a member of the UN Security Council. Compliments, by the way, for Minister Kaag and also for the new rulers on Justice and Security, who, after all the criticism in this Chamber, are now rejecting the ill-thought-out bill on their own contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. That's it! We would like to see a great deal more off the table that is now being presented in the coalition agreement. The Prime Minister can already note that we do not find more tax on groceries, less tax on corporate profits and no tax on dividends at all. A new tax system in which the people who already have the best get it even better, we don't like it either, nor do we want to keep the Netherlands tax haven open. My group also does not agree with the development of purchasing power which the government is in favour of. After all, there is nothing balanced about having a mother with a child in the assistance provided by the Nibud up to 2022 receive €15 per month, a mother with an income of €25,000 gets €74 per month and a mother with an income of €60,000 or above every month gets €168 more. That is not true, it does not rhyme and it is not balanced. Madam President. The good founding in this Chamber is not easy either, but it can be. Previously, this Chamber, with its first parliamentary investigation into the privatisation and independence policies of government and parliament, made a good contribution to future policies. That ProRail now becomes a Zbo under the wings of the government, at least partly thanks to the investigation of Roel Kuiper and his people. I would like to propose to this Chamber, also in line with what Mr De Graaf said earlier about this during the debate on the method of working and on which Mr Kuiper also hinted earlier, that a second parliamentary inquiry should be considered, namely the introduction and implementation of the new Police Act. External research shows that this biggest administrative reorganisation in recent history is certainly not yet a success. A great deal has gone wrong, crucial goals have not been achieved or cannot be measured and many wrong choices have led to a very disappointing result. This Chamber has dealt intensively with this law and has sent the then Minister of Security and Justice back to the House of Representatives to make some substantial adjustments before we could say yes. However, the preliminary conclusion is that this has not helped sufficiently. That deserves reflection, and this house likes to do that. A parliamentary inquiry into how the development, decision-making and implementation process has been carried out by the national police, and the role of government and parliament in this process can provide an insight into where it has gone wrong in the past and how we can better deal with it in the future. Very strikingly, the Leiden coalition researchers note, is that there have never been so few words about democratic renewal in a coalition agreement since 1963.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u126	I have a question on the previous subject, an investigation into police developments, a parliamentary investigation even. That is an interesting thought, but I think that the previous research that has ever been done has done mainly research into a path that has been completely completed, while I feel that the research that you are now asking for is still in full development. I think that the House of Representatives is the most important move. Or does Mr Kox see this as different and does he think that we should start this process with such a parliamentary investigation already underway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr Schalk is right. National police are still developing. Unfortunately, you could say. Time and again it appears that we are far from where we would like to come with the national police. What is behind it is the process of drafting the law on national police, its introduction and its implementation. I have already said that this is a law that this Chamber has come back to over and over again. In the discussion with the Minister for Justice and Security, it was said that things were not going well and that things had to be different. The First Chamber almost sat in the seat of the Lower House and said: Minister, this law must be amended on ten or eleven major points, otherwise we are not going to say yes to it. It's not about telling who did it wrong. Nevertheless, despite intense interference from us and from the House of Representatives, the government, the Second and First Chambers have failed to manage something that we knew would be the biggest administrative reorganisation of this country in modern times. That is why now the House of Representatives and the government still have to deal with the question of how to resolve it. That last stretch has to go on. But the first stage is how it could have been done, why we could not have done it better together and whether we could learn anything from it. That was also the subject of Mr Kuiper's and his research: how did the parliament and the government decide on independence and privatisation, what went wrong and what can we learn from it? I gave as an example that the fact that ProRail is now becoming a Zbo is, in my opinion, a distracted result of that research. So it also has effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u128	Finally, Madam President. I understand the point and I try to follow that reasoning, but I also try to think about the position of the First Chamber in this and at this time. I would like to point out that we have to ask ourselves when this Chamber is going to make such an important point as a parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u129	I would like to talk to all my fellow Members about this, because we shall decide on a parliamentary inquiry from this Chamber when we all agree or almost all agree on it. That's the only reason to give it meaning. That is what we need to talk about, but in my opinion, the process of implementation, the drafting of the law and its implementation are sufficient to ensure that this is done. We can get even more of this kind of reorganisation, and if we do not learn from what has gone well, but above all from what has gone wrong, it seems to me unwise for a parliament to do so. Again, it is not intended to say: it has done it and it must be dismissed. We did not do that in the previous investigation either. That's what I like about a First Chamber investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u130	I think Mr Kox is right that it does not make sense to wait until the police have been reorganised. That's gonna take some time. I share the intention with Mr Kox that it is very useful to have a parliamentary inquiry in this Chamber. I would ask him to limit this to the legislation and the accents that this Chamber has placed in it and then to look at what has become of it in practice, to learn lessons from it. I would also like to ask you not to provoke a statement by the Chamber on this matter with a task and such, but to start with the discussion, for example in the Seniors' College, so that we have sufficient support and a good mandate to carry out such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u131	I have already said it, Madam President, Mr De Graaf is here. He discussed the way this Chamber works and mentioned the Police Act at the time. More Members of Parliament have referred to this before because we have been so closely involved. Nor is it my intention to table a motion and ask who is in favour and who is against. My proposal is to say to ourselves during these General Reviews: let us look at this great law and how it came about. We've been so intensely involved. How can it be that the final result is not what we all want? I'm in favour of talking about that in the Seniors' College. We have an example. When we started doing Mr Kuiper's parliamentary research, we took the necessary steps by means of a certain method. The investigation does not have to be done tomorrow, but it has to be done and it will have to be done by this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u132	The parallel is indeed that you would now look at legislative research in distinction with research that is looking for political responsibilities. How did the legislation come about, what has been thought about and what are the results when we look at implementation? I agree with Mr De Graaf that we are debating the cabinet today. We could talk about this at another time. Now there is an evaluation of five years of Police Act, the Chicken report, which identifies a number of things and makes a number of proposals on competences that need to be changed in the future. The report also makes the disturbing statement that we have no idea of the police's capacity to perform. In the execution there is still fog. I'll give you that. I think we should have this kind of debate today and then discuss again later on whether an investigation is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u133	I agree with Mr Kuiper that we do not need to take a decision today. Why do I bring it up during the General Reviews? Because the coalition agreement puts forward a number of plans for what we all have to do. It says that we are going to spend €267 million on the police to make the police function better. I believe that this plan is widely supported by this Chamber, but we also know that giving money to the national police is a long way from solving the problem. I believe that this Chamber should reflect on what has happened, how that has happened, what our role has been, from the House of Representatives and from the Government, and what we can learn from it. I agree that we need to take a step-by-step decision on this, but I think that we should now work towards the idea that this Chamber is excellently suited and that it is actually up to itself to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u134	May I ask the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to talk a little less, if possible? We just can't understand it literally, but we can hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u135	Maybe the Prime Minister was seducing the Deputy Prime Minister to do something else. He's always active, and he never talks for nothing. It will have served a purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u136	Unless he's got to rehearse it like he's listening. I have a question for Mr Kox. Mr Kox expressly limited his proposal to the introduction of the national police. There is also something to be said for this, because it was a very extensive legislative process, on which the First Chamber had quite a strong stamp at the time. At the same time, the introduction of national police has gone hand in hand with a reorganisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. We then discussed the legislative proposal on the judicial card, which has also been substantially amended following the debate in the Upper House. My question to Mr Kox is: if such an investigation were to take place, would he really want to limit it to national police alone or would he think it would be useful to look at the criminal justice chain in a broader sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u137	As I have already said, a proposal of this magnitude is a proposal from the Chamber and therefore not a proposal from Tiny Kox or one group. In spring we will have our debate on the state of the rule of law. There we will talk again about whether our rule of law is working, whether it is threatening to sink into a ground at certain times and what we should do about it. We have already had this debate a few times. It was a fruitful debate, which also led to policy adjustment. That will also be discussed this time. I think that we should make the issue that Mrs Barth is putting on the table part of the discussion there. When I think of a parliamentary inquiry, I think, above all, that you must have a very specific area of activity that you can investigate. The Kuiper Committee has shown that, if you concentrate on this, you can achieve results. It's pretty fast from here to there. I agree with Mrs Barth that it is terribly important to examine that other part too, but I do not know whether this can be done in one investigation. I'm a little hesitant about that. But once again, I am not in charge of that; we are in charge of that. I think we'll work it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u138	Madam President, allow me to express my surprise at the fact that Mr Kox, who, on an earlier occasion when it came to a possible constitutional revision, indicated that he would prefer to see the role of the First Chamber reduced somewhat, now comes with a proposal to extend the activities of this Chamber. That is not so much the point I want to make in his direction, but I need it as a lead-up to a second point of amazement, namely that he assigns to the Senior Convent here powers which I know are not there and with which we also have bad experiences when it comes to the aforementioned Constitutional Review. I think that the most important point I am considering on behalf of my group is to wait for the cabinet to come up with in response to the evaluation that has recently been offered to the cabinet. I think there's enough for the police to do not put too much energy into new investigations. I have grown up thinking that everything needs to be investigated and the good preserved, but in this case I think that the best thing is for the cabinet to do its job first and for us to deal with other things for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u139	Mr Brinkman and I were both not present when the right to parliamentary inquiry and parliamentary inquiry was given to this Chamber. That was, I think, in 1857 or 1881. The Prime Minister has studied history and will certainly be able to update us on it, but I do not extend the duties of this Chamber. We have taken on this task for almost a century and a half, and Roel Kuiper and this Chamber have decided to do it once, so it is not an extension of work, Mr Brinkman. If you become a Member of Parliament, we sometimes have to work for our money, and this is one of the constitutional rights given to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u140	I do not deny that either, but the question is whether it is one of the priorities. In the opinion of our group, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u141	Your first point was: Mr Kox wants to extend the work of this Chamber; in violation of the Constitution, that was a distraction. No, the Constitution has already included in a deep past that this Chamber, like the House of Representatives, has the right of investigation and of inquiry. We did that once. That's one. Two, is it a priority? It doesn't affect our legislative work. We also included the Kuiper Committee, and this Chamber did not fall into a mess. We really can. We actually get paid here for two days a week, Mr Brinkman, I've already figured that out. We have one day of meeting, so we can afford to. Thirdly, I do not attach any additional powers to the Seniors' Conference. It was a suggestion from colleague De Graaf to talk about how we would do that in the Seniors' meeting. That's what we did last time. That seems very good to me, but in the end this Chamber decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u142	I actually thought that the key question asked by Mr Brinkman to Mr Kox was whether it was too early. Why don't we wait and see what the Minister of Justice and Security is going to do with the evaluation of the Police Act? I myself am rather hesitant to, while you are still working on the implementation, yes, it takes a long time, it takes a lot longer than you really would like to bother the police organisation, during the reorganisation, during its completion, with a parliamentary investigation. I dare ask myself whether that really leads to a better situation with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u143	The Minister for Justice and Security must, above all, make every effort to put the national police in order as quickly as possible. I can't imagine him having anything in mind other than to do that. That must continue, this Chamber does not need to question him now. He has the confidence of us and is being controlled by the House of Representatives as to whether that is going well. What I propose to investigate is how a law that we, as the First Chamber, have so emphatically interfered with, did not ultimately deliver what we wanted it to deliver. That is therefore a shared responsibility of the government, the Second and the First Chamber. That is why I believe that this is extremely appropriate for a parliamentary inquiry, as was also appropriate for the investigation of government and parliament policy on privatisation and self-determination. But again, I proposed this, because this is the time in the year when we talk about what we as a Chamber want to happen, and not just tell the government what is going to happen, and that is why I put this proposal on the table here. I hope we can talk about it in the near future. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Very strikingly, the Leiden coalition researchers note, is that there have never been so few words about democratic renewal in a coalition agreement since 1963. This is at least remarkable for a coalition of which three of the four partners bear the concept of "democracy" even in their party name. And if anything is proposed, it is not a democratic renewal but democratic destruction, rather bluntly said. The corrective referendum will not be held and the consultative referendum will not remain. Two D66 crown jewels go to the grimmer and the new D66 Minister of the Interior has to do the job. It's something of a hazing rod. In doing so, the government states in advance that it does not have a message about the outcome of the forthcoming referendum on the Sleep Act and that it does not want to make the law on the abolition of the consultative referendum referendable with a trick. It is good that next week we are discussing the democratic revolution of 100 years ago; the introduction of universal suffrage between 1917 and 1922. But let us not be silent today and tomorrow about this pitiful democratic fear of cold water that this government suddenly seems to be catching. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's response. Madam President. Among the good founders we also count on the broad commitment of this Chamber to explore how we better protect and strengthen the foundations of our rule of law. This spring we will resume our debate with the government on the state of the rule of law. We hope that a broad shared understanding that we need to maintain and protect our rule of law, which threatens to sink in here and there, with all our strength, by the government, is complemented by a genuine adjustment of policies where necessary, such as additional money for the funded legal aid, in order to maintain access to justice and legal assistance for every Dutch citizen. Does the government want to reach out to us here? We hope that this Chamber will also reflect on something that has been a sad reality for years: that people with little money and education are significantly less healthy and die far earlier than those who are better paid and educated. It would be nice if we could discuss this with the Ministers for Health and, above all, with the Secretary of State for Health next year. If we want people with low incomes and low education to live longer and healthier lives, we need to invest a lot, in education and education and shelter, and in fundamentally tackling inequality. Only then will we get rid of socio-economic health inequalities. I invite the government to reach out to us on this issue as well. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, but with too many contradictions. Together, however, we are a rich country, and therefore quite capable of receiving people fleeing war and violence from elsewhere, within our borders, as long as that is necessary and provided that we provide broad support for the population. However, the coalition agreement seems to focus on keeping people out of the borders of the European Union who are desperately looking for a better life. At least the border of the Refugee Convention will be explored and the future of the Convention will be called into question. We find it painful that D66 and the Christian Union have agreed to this. The Netherlands cannot accommodate the whole world. No one's asking for that either. But keeping a seat free for a stranger is a matter of civilisation, as Mr Schalk has told us more than once. The Netherlands is inextricably linked to the European Union, as stated in the coalition agreement. So after the Brexit, there's no nexit, if it's up to this government. But much will depend on how the European Union develops. Unbreaking is almost impossible, as the Brexit negotiations show. That is precisely why we need to avoid further blurring. This means that we must take a stand against the European Commission's proposals for this. It wants to make us even more confused, which makes it more likely that we will end up hanging up the whole project. Is our government going to work for a Union in which more relaxed cooperation can be achieved and Brussels is not always in charge? Or is the political foreman of D66 right when he calls this government the most euro-friendly ever? "Europe brings peace, security and prosperity to the Netherlands," says the government agreement. There is much to be said for this; reason for us to be internationalists for European cooperation. However, the government seems somewhat short-sighted when it always uses "Europe" and "European Union" as synonyms. Europe is larger than the EU and all European countries together constitute a world- unique area of justice, from Greenland to Russia and Turkey, under the Council of Europe's European Convention on Human Rights. With its convention system, the European-wide convention organisation has established binding rules on classical and social human rights, women's rights, children's rights and national minorities. And about data protection and cybercrime and human trafficking and match fixing and cultural inheritances. I recently received a report from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. In general European reflections, we would like to discuss this with the government. And also about the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is doing important work in European conflict zones where violence reigns or threatens. The Council of Europe and the OSCE are also the stages on which Russia and Turkey are still participating and can therefore be kept to their international obligations under law. The question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he wants to make it possible for the EU to have less money, which makes it easy for all the other European organisations that are there to promote peace, security and progress. Now the European Union costs a day what the Council of Europe costs a year, just to give a comparison. The Netherlands will be part of the UN Security Council next year. It would be wonderful if the Netherlands, the only western country that did participate in the negotiations on a global anti-nuclear weapons treaty, but unfortunately voted against it, now took the lead, in particular, in pushing the nuclear weapons forces, which have a permanent place in the Security Council, out of their shooter's pit and bringing them to the understanding that nuclear weapons make the world life-threatening and therefore have to leave the world as soon as possible. This would be in line with the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the initiators of this hopeful treaty. As a member of the Security Council, our country can also contribute to a breakthrough in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict under the motto "who pays, determines." Now the EU pays and the US decides. Now that the American President is escalating again, the European Union must help to de-escalate and, after half a century of illegal occupation of Palestine, take initiatives to find a lasting solution to this, in my group's view, mother of all conflicts. I'll come to a conclusion. This government is not our dream coalition. We had another in mind, but there was still no mutual love for that. That's okay, that's okay. Next time better. Until then, my group colleagues and I are going to focus fully on stopping evil and, where possible, on establishing good. In doing so, we will support the government if it can, if it has to fight, all of them, as the government also says, to make this beautiful country even better for everyone. I look forward to the Prime Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u144	Madam President. On the way to a country we want to pass on is more necessary than the autopilot. The seedling downstairs is then never unfertilised, unmixed and free of debris ready to sow new policies into it. Compromise is necessary. There are traditions and acquired rights. There is a bay of views and influences. There's a need for something new. There are incidents. And despite bitcoins and other virtualities, the money pocket is limited. Anyone who wishes to appear to the King on the border to serve our country deserves praise. First of all, our group would like to thank the permanent, energetic Prime Minister and the recently resigned excellence for their strenuous work. They have sought broad support for their policies. In this so fragmented country, that is the right attitude. The Prime Minister wants to continue along this path, and that gives hope. Half plus one at the Binnenhof is a majority, but for building and rebuilding cooperation, tolerance and respect, to the hands-out of the sleeves and not to get too much of the state dependent, to a country that wants to show compassion and neglect with good will, to a country in which trust and hope prevail, there is a need for broader social support. Indeed, rebellion is not so much fueled by tight democratic majority voting as by acting or failing to act with authority and trust. The government does not remain the only support in our society. Not because it would be unnecessary, but because it cannot and does not have to deal with everything it is given. There is still plenty of.... and as far as we are concerned even more.... that belongs to the own account, risk and responsibility of people themselves. We therefore welcome the fact that this cabinet sets priorities that we recognise from our electoral programme. More for safety. Less, but still more room for the fine care. Let society share more in the benefits of a growing economy. More own money, less borrowed capital bets. Helping developing countries to walk on their own feet by promoting free trade in their goods, not in their people. Disadvantages of growth for the climate are now really affecting. In order to restore confidence in public action, this is a good approach, even if citizens, institutions and businesses will rightly continue to dot: what does it mean in concrete terms for them? Fortunately, there is more money, but the sustainability of the policy that is now under way must be demonstrated year in, year out. Shall we look at the flag halfway through this ride, Mr Prime Minister? The previous cabinet has allowed the collective burden to rise again. This cabinet envisages a reduction in charges in addition to an increase in charges. It is a good thing that the commitment to reducing tax excrement and that it will relieve the burden of middlemen and middlemen by rewarding work and working more and supporting people who cannot stand on their own feet. When citizens, institutions and businesses insist on precision and justice, they take the nails on their heads. So don't sell paper policy, carelessness, tolerance or generalities! Also accept that things like dryer feet, a healthier body, less CO, a safer street and more mobility are not free. Our review task here continues to check whether proposals are well-founded and practical and do justice to differences. This raises the practical question of how long the lime-fresh cabinet in its day-to-day administrative role, national and international, can suffice only to point to the letters and figures of its long coalition agreement. After all, there will be facts, considerations and circumstances for which a solution must be found that goes beyond what could be written down in the office of the successive informers, who we too are very grateful for their unselfish commitment. Our group is pleased that the now participating cabinet parties have finally found each other. Our positive attitude towards this cabinet will bear witness to this, even though our group has not had a vote in the formulation of the agreement. We now fit the role of last, indispensable player in the entire legislative process. That continues to be more than a distant view and then say yes or no. It would also be a misconception of the value of a proper double check within the political system if we were to send it back and let it continue under the motto 'I told you so'. These are decisions that bind all citizens, institutions and businesses. Let's face it, there are no piles of rejected legislative proposals here. During the past cabinet period, there were eight, with our group voting against only six and two more votes in favour. That is how constructive a serious opposition can be! It turned out that there were proposals that were not legal. They were not simply wiped off the table; at the insistence of this house, the cabinet improved its proposals while maintaining the political main line agreed with the other side. I would like to mention a few examples: the revision of the Police Act, the Media Act, the decentralisation of the Social Support Act and the Youth Act, and the phosphate legislation, which still requires many discretionary decisions by the Minister of Agriculture to deal with the huge series of problems. The Environment Act is still in force, while several coherent legislative proposals for the treatment of confused persons are still under legal agony. No, we're not playing thumbs here! Flights to delegated regulations outside the legislator's scope leads to frustrating searches in daily social traffic. The question of where the rights and duties of citizens, institutions and businesses lie should be the subject of debate and clear conclusions throughout the parliament. Already in 2013 we warned against unclear competences regarding standards and standards at the Quality Institute for Care. Minister Schippers then guaranteed parliamentary budget law. In the meantime, we are about EUR 2 billion for nursing care and an apparently binding external opinion on this, without a properly prepared parliamentary budget debate on updated standards and standards. Don't get me wrong, our elders deserve extra care first. But what external institutions have taken on similar budget responsibilities, which should now be included more explicitly and more timely in government and parliament? Will the cabinet present that overview to Parliament in time for the 2019 budget cycle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u145	I don't have to take away the cabinet's explanation, and certainly not the current cabinet. However, I would like to point out to Mr Brinkman that I do not think it was Minister Schippers who gave away that budget right, but the House of Representatives itself allowed the opportunity to intervene in what has happened in relation to the care of the elderly. In the meantime, we are dealing with this fact. That is why I would like to ask Mr Brinkman the same question as Mrs Jorritsma just now: does Mr Brinkman think that part of the money that is now earmarked to improve the quality of institutional care for the elderly should be able to be used to improve care for the elderly at home, in order to prevent people from being admitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u146	Mrs Barth asks this question to someone who used to be a minister of care for the elderly and who had to defend the Law on the old people's homes in parliament, at a time when people asked to be able to provide care outside the old people's homes. At that time I proposed not to create a new law, but to add only one article, namely that the concept of 'older people' could also include the concept of 'accompanying policy'. Perhaps the present cabinet and the current leaders can adopt that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u147	Mrs Barth has no further question. Proceed, Mr. Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u148	Mr. Chairman. Restoring trust requires more administrative and legal care than a government agreement can write out in a short time. Moreover, fortunately this country is not completely ruled by tweets and selfies. We live legally and practically in a very complex world. The coalition agreement announces that citizens and their relentless professionals in the field of education, care and police and in their business will be given more space and fewer forms, but what happens after so many similar announcements in recent years? Does this experienced Prime Minister want to unfold more about all that? How will these plans be realised? How will the evil ones be more intensively controlled and the good ones left alone? Our governance has been permeated by computer-tested equal treatment, but individuals and circumstances are increasingly uneven. The legislator should then be asked to provide more administrative space for less uniform solutions, provided that responsible directors and citizens can be identified in the event of obvious negligence or abuse of public funds. Mr. Prime Minister, whoever has nothing to hide in linked files doesn't have to worry about his privacy, right? The Environmental Law has once been designed to simplify and accelerate spatial decisions, in which various interests could now be weighed in a single moment in interlink, especially in a decentralised way in their diversity. Now that legislative process has been underway for years. The execution has already been postponed at the end, now because the computer can't keep up. In addition, additional ministerial posts have been created. In the meantime, we have already had a debate here after debate, where it appeared that the thousands of pages of draft rules do not yet provide sufficient clarity on the content of what new standards, procedures and powers will be in our entire country in transition. Those who now apply to a local office for a clear decision usually get zero on the record, because the legislator is still in discussion with himself. How will the Minister of the Interior resolve this in a few months' time? I am counting on the MP to give a concrete answer to my introduction. The drafting of the coalition agreement will be followed later by concrete legislative proposals. That will be a long time after so many pages, but we give this cabinet a long ride! Then there is plenty of opportunity to set up a state weed about the inconsistency of policies that the new cabinet is threatening to promote, namely the discouragement of tobacco consumption and the promotion of state weed trade. Anyone who understands may raise their finger. It's like I'm back at Leidseplein in 1966... The cabinet now wants to improve the quality of weed in experiments and take the trade out of the criminal sphere. Reduction of health risks and the fight against crime have always been supported by our group. In fact, we warmly welcome the approach proposed by this cabinet to undermining crime. However, we are gathered here to properly and consistently examine the equal conditions of ecstatic experiments that must be met now that mayors are standing in line to start them, while many inhabitants of this country are rightly thinking about the consequences of all kinds of previous tolerated experiments. From what facts, for example, does the cabinet conclude that this experiment actually leads to a substantial reduction in crime, now that 80% to 90% of the criminally grown pot in the Netherlands is destined for export abroad? Moreover, in many areas, better quality has its higher price; how sure is the cabinet that the price difference between legal and illegal weed will significantly reduce the "cheap" illegal trade, including on the streets? Now that research has shown that drug use is harmful to public health, and especially to young users, government proposals seem to encourage legalisation rather than discourage use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u149	Mr. Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u150	Mr President, I would almost say: let him read through, because the last sentence is taken from my heart. Of course, we must not just promote drugs at all. But my question to Mr Brinkman would be the following. Imagine if the cabinet could prove that this would actually reduce crime. So imagine if that could be done, would Mr Brinkman be in favour of state weed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u151	I understand that question, but it is too early to answer it, firstly because I still have a number of questions I hope to be able to answer. We will undoubtedly get an answer from the cabinet and in due course a legislative proposal, and then we will see how that works and whether it works properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u152	I am also monitoring the legislative process, but nevertheless I am asking Mr Brinkman for his appreciation of the proposal as it stands. He goes into a lot of subjects. Also on this subject, and quite extensive. And I also find his speech very sensible. Let me put my question this way: should we not be very careful when introducing such a proposal for state weed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u153	Mr President, if I may, I should like to reply to this question by Mr Schalk in the light of what I intended to do. How does the cabinet prevent the wrong attraction for tourists? What do our neighbours think of these plans? We are representatives of a party that is loyal to its commitments. At the same time, we are not here a stamp office for decisions that people will later say: did they have another hole in their head there, then in 2017? In 1966, at Leidseplein, you could perhaps pass by studying and shoulder-picking, but in the meantime even the silent population has become more powerful. We therefore advocate measurable benchmarks in the formulation of this policy agreed in the coalition agreement. After all, enough paper policy has already gone up in smoke! I'm still leaving the sweetheart on the left and so I'd like to return to the steps of my, supporting the cabinet on the main lines, argument. It takes some getting used to, when we have to miss the former Vice-President of our group. We understand very well that the MP wanted to attract this solid and innovative 40-year-old as its financial conscience and we congratulate them both on that choice. In his first appearances, the new Finance Minister has rightly shown that he will apply the budgetary rules strictly. According to the latest account figures, the net-retired cabinet was based on a collective burden of 36% at its start and 39% at the end of 2017. In this way, this cabinet does not quickly regain sympathy among the population. We thank former colleague Hoekstra for his inexhaustible and amical commitment in the group and wish him strength and success, together with his new colleagues. It seems to us all here to be a driven and expert team, which we would like to see working here regularly in the very friendly, critical-constructive atmosphere of this house. Madam President, you have stated that the number and type of your excellent guests needed some clarification here. Did you also mean to say that behind the government table there should now be a bay window like the Trêveszaal built by Liesbeth van der Pol? What exactly was agreed at the property redistribution between the ministries working on the environment? And what are they going to do with that redistributed budget, other than write notes about, for example, housing or the need for pigs? We see that the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs is in a hurry. Does he realize that after this Chamber, the judge has often shown that hasty haste in his field is rarely good? Can he now confirm that the Tax Administration considers the government agreement to be fiscally feasible, or should we make further reservations regarding his executive service? Or does he think that fiscally too much is being done about it? We do not then give a licence for arbitrary other hasty measures, because we have to guard against them in the narrow margins of democracy. It is not just about money, it is also about confidence. This is not how citizens and businesses are automatically excited about taxes. We know only one paradise, but the newspaper says that there are 53 and that even too little tax is levied there. Fortunately, the cabinet has immediately made it clear that The Hague is already working against such excesses. What is the government's view in this gloomy light of European powers to promote cross-border, non-ground economic activities together? Moreover, the coalition agreement has not been described as a cross-border agreement. In terms of standards of behaviour, we do not mind, because too much has been tolerated. Now that the Prime Minister has said that our country will continue to serve this entire cabinet period from the Binnenhof, with which we congratulate him, we would like to hear today, after an understandable month's silence on subjects from across the border, a little more concrete about his foreign commitment. After all, the world just went crazy and we can't get out of there. The tone of the coalition agreement is rightly positive and constructive, and not afraid. Meanwhile, America First tweets the end of multilateral ideals around the world and it is once great Britain saevis intranquillus in undis. Without such a once consistent partner, our life in Brussels will be really different. President Macron is now reforming his relatively quiet country seriously, which can break the crippling stalemate between north and south in Europe. In return, he asked for a 'Europe qui protège'. Perhaps that is why the French and German leaders will soon fall into the arms of each other again. Is our cabinet going to argue for a European Monetary Fund, for a European Finance Minister and for its own budget for the euro area? Which investment protection at European level is it going to argue for? In this world, additional expenditure on defence is inescapable. These should be used more usefully in European cooperation. The Americans have one kind of tank, we in Europe have seventeen. They have four kinds of frigates, we 29. They have six types of fighter planes, the 20 of us. The instability extends from Lebanon to Mali and the Atlantic coast in Africa, and European military assistance is also needed there. Will the cabinet take initiatives in this regard? Back to your country. On the way to, once again, the municipal elections, people want to know for sure what the necessary energy transition will mean for them. If in one month all kinds of new accounts from tax, health insurance, energy company and others fall on the mat, they will not receive a joyful welcome everywhere, even because they include policies of the newly resigned cabinet. That must be carefully presented and kept apart by the new cabinet. There is a lot of concern here, especially as healthcare spending continues to rise from 68 billion to 91 billion per year from 2017 to 2022. Fortunately, there are numerous volunteers and professionals for our minds and minds. Good care for everyone and getting older have their price. Yet we are all not relieved of the duty to consider how to proceed. Some major health insurance companies recently said that care costs can be reduced by 10% or 20%. Is the cabinet going to conclude new care agreements with such suggestions in hand? Those who predicted that traditions and meaning would have had their longest time, are beginning to catch bone. All kinds of social movements, institutions and individuals are literally and figuratively looking for more space for their co-responsible efforts in caring for others. Over the years, a lot of money has been sitting in its own building, administration and staff for each association, church or foundation. Organisations involved sometimes have expensive but empty buildings and at the same time a growing demand for their commitment. Is there not a clean task here for joint political and social leadership to share these spaces more voluntarily for the benefit of fellow citizens who rely on help? Madam President. The cabinet rightly aims at increasing public confidence in the future. Here around the Binnenhof most people are gradually agreeing that the future can only be made to a limited extent, but can also be broken. Our age is very modestly self-determined. So pension funds and insurers have to count on this in their calculation models. At the same time, we know that one's own house and the prospect of any pension are to some extent the only securities of a lot of people that have fallen into equity. So every cabinet has to deal with that carefully. Ancient senator Hoekstra has warned the previous Secretary of State. Yet one had to throw down his axe and the other now resides after her unfinished job on the beautiful Drentse hei. The subject of pensions is more explosive than a poorly maintained ammo box. Fortunately, therefore, this Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has now sung his praises on the polder. Interested parties will eventually want to recognise that the future does not have absolute pension guarantees, but they can count on the government and De Nederlandsche Bank not always coming up with new insights and risk models that will further melt confidence in the old age. The ECB has now spent EUR 2,000 billion to boost inflation slightly, without much success. Inflation rose 1,000 billion per tenth. As a result, not indexing pensions year after year undermines confidence. How does the Cabinet intend to reverse this tide? Can it confirm that the new supplementary pension system continues to be linked to a broad, mandatory basic collective capital, on top of which limited individual claims on that pension can be built up? Can the cabinet confirm that the average contribution has had its longest time, but also that from 2018 onwards there will be room for any reindexation of pension benefits? Speaking of pillars under the confidence of many people in the future, I cannot ignore the debate on the use of space in our country. It gets fuller and yet there are still large voids, on the ground, below and above, and at sea. But oh, what are pages written about that over and over and over again and what is talked about. The Dutch Bank and the Finance Ministers have been talking to us more and more about the way in which we Dutch people live with our housing stock. Sure, you shouldn't have too many debts and manage your own money more risk-consciously, as a resident and as an entrepreneur. But now there are many billions in dead stones. Promised middle-class rentals don't come off the ground. And not to mention: lower house prices were promised, but the flood of conflicting economic advice resulted in only greater price increases. How many times have we warned against that? Is this cabinet also blind to lesson one of the economy, namely that scarcity drives prices up? Many people in the country already have their hands full at home because others than us, local and also in The Hague, seem to want to increase the tax on the house to exhausting sports. How does this cabinet give sparing people and companies new hope that investing in a house makes sense and provides security? What space does Minister Ollongren literally and figuratively create against the housing shortage? More wind energy is in place. Listening to legitimate objections to intended places was not in the former ruler's mind, especially since he said he didn't have any money for it. Now, one tender after another shows that horizon-polluting wind farms cost less than was assumed. So Minister Wiebes has that big windfall. The Groningers seemed happy with the coalition agreement in the endless gas debate. After the reconstruction, will Groningen become one data centre, a healthier food barn for the world? Now that the Council of State has spoken strictly about their rights, Minister Wiebes has to say "in the quick cooking pan" because there would be "state failure of non-Dutch proportions." What dish is he going to prepare in that, now that our own gas runs out faster than hoped? The departments concerned say that there can be no new vision for the North Sea, although gathering points for all kinds of economic and energy cleaner activities on some new islands further off the Dutch coast is better than ad hoc air and vision-polluting solutions on land. Will the Prime Minister undertake to consider seriously this related issue of new energy, more space and better coastal protection? There is strong support for this, it offers a look at the future behind the horizon and social investment is thus rewarded. Take that opportunity and don't leave Invest-NL behind. Meanwhile, the cabinet can make more haste with energy savings in homes and buildings for education and care. After all, Paris is not automatically getting closer by overbiding its climate goals. This vision has been there for a long time, now that it is being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u154	I am still very pleased that in the election debates Mr Brinkman reacted rather sarcastically to our ambitious climate plans, because they would only cost the citizens. Maybe he remembers that, too. So our surprise was when we read in the coalition agreement how much the cost of the energy transition is passed on to citizens. They are going to pay two and a half times as much as companies, which are being spared. Even the SDE+ grants go partly to CO storage. How does Mr Brinkman feel about that? Do you think it would be good for citizens to see that not the polluter pays but that they have to pay for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u155	We all have to pay the bill. Part of the policy of the new cabinet will be explained. I am asking you to think about giving investors and people who come up with new ideas a chance and combine things, which may reduce costs. Now that the Council of State has spoken in the Groningen case, we can take advantage of that opportunity to see how we can deal with the matter even better. In the meantime, we can continue to give energy savings a chance. You will see that citizens and businesses share the burden and that the cabinet also participates in it. The latter at your and my expense, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u156	These are all nice plans, but the fact remains that the distribution is now very uneven. Companies can continue to use fossil energy because their energy bill remains very low. Shouldn't you be addressing the polluting companies and squeezing them much more to move towards renewable energy? Why didn't this cabinet choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u157	You are now pretending that the companies can look the other way, but that is a misconception of what is proposed in the coalition agreement. You can ask the cabinet yourself. I'll check the cabinet with you, and we'll have to explain the coalition agreement further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u158	It would be worth a lot to me if the CDA Group were also very much in favour of sharing costs as much as possible and not just for citizens. Maybe I see a hand in this that you are going to support other measures that are more similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u159	It is a mistake that citizens never pay the bill because companies have to. Of course, they have to charge it somewhere, it is not through a levy or through the cost of their product. Madam President. The coalition chord is just a modest flight simulator full of seemingly automatic pilots. We live in a time full of scripture, with many risk assessments in advance, but learning and life are often torn apart by incident. We know that the mp is handy with such incidental helmsmanship. He is praised for this, but he also knows that citizens feel more confident when they can work with him from the cockpit at their destination. I say "look." As you can see, I have put on a new pair of glasses, invited by him, which gives me a better view of the cabinet in new composition. On behalf of our group, I can inform him that we are once again used to our constructive and precise, still independent but really supportive vision of this cabinet. Finally. It is a commendable initiative of the entire cabinet to remove the roots of our country, of our identity and of our traditions from the dust of imminent oblivion. We do understand that the word "obligatory" is not so popular anymore after years of tolerated what is not really good. But the Prime Minister does agree with us that one day we will see how the Night Watch rabble was kept away and one verse of Wilhelmus singing would be a very small summary of what is needed to better understand what keeps our culture gradually changing over the centuries? Speaking of learning money from history, tradition and culture: in The devastated republic: search for the soul of France, by Mia Doornaert stands something that is also applicable in our country. After a description of the ups and downs and peculiarities of France, its government and its population, it comes to the conclusion that a revolution, such as that of 1789 in Paris or the Arab Spring in 2011, repeatedly shows that freedom and democracy do not break out when the people go out on the streets and there is an atmosphere of freedom there for days or weeks. No, such a festive overture says absolutely nothing about the piece that will be played afterwards. The rule of law and democracy require an adaptation and it takes a very long time to build it. Only since 1966 have some people been saying "already" to vote on which our institutions are rocking on their foundations. Our group also recognises the need for some interviews, but the deeper values enshrined in our balanced Constitution do not fit in rude earth moving. After all, this could result in profound resistance from the majority of our everyday compatriots, who do not live in the centres of Amsterdam and Utrecht, no matter how attractive these special places may be. Unfortunately, political parties are certainly not in a good position, but 150 of them in Parliament are really becoming too much. Prime Minister, beware of the real Black Piet when it comes to identity and history of our changing free and responsible country. We wish the cabinet strength and wisdom on the bumpy path towards a hopefully even better future for broad, multicoloured layers of the population. More and more people are seeking a new balance between tradition and innovation, and new methods and techniques to achieve this for different people in different circumstances in practical and just terms. "Knowing is not yet done," the WRR wrote about it. Not every individual is self-reliant. When does the government react to this, at a time when money still matters but in which more and more people are looking again for added value? At this time, we are not only looking for more space to fill in our own work and life and for more space to live, but also for more space to make sense of our time spent, to move more for our health and to devote even more effort to other people and groups than ourselves, close and further away, and to make room in our minds for the reality that our borders have become truly permeable. Prime Minister, work and fertilize the earth you found at your reboot, so gradually, carefully, solidly, practically, fairly and consistently. Don't waste her. Recycle her. Then she will blossom as a teenager and you will be here, and I will say it as confidentially as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u160	I was thrilled to hear you talk about the Hills Act. I have looked at the CDA's election programme, which states, among other things, that "saving is rewarded in a fair economy and discourages too much borrowing." The Hills Act, a CDA law no matter, has encouraged people to pay off their mortgage, so their debt. That's what they've been saving up for. Now you're going to abolish it with your party and the coalition. How can you abolish your own law when what I just quoted is in your election program?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u161	Our group has prepared for us to discuss this important issue when dealing with the Tax Plan and the General Financial Reviews. Mr Van Rij will bring in all his expertise so that you can have an excellent debate with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u162	I was just looking forward to having a debate with Mr. Brinkman. Mr. Brinkman has been poked and beaten as a politician in the business. So he has to be able to give an answer to this, right? I can't imagine Mr. Brinkman not thinking about this question. I find it too easy for him to put this off on his colleague for next week, because the question is not that difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u163	We are both speaking on behalf of the whole group. And don't worry about it, it has more than our attention and you will really get a definitive answer when we have the final text of the bill ahead of us and not before. I have said many times and I will continue to say that we will speak when it is our turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u164	Thank you, Mr. Brinkman. I give the floor to Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u165	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group warmly congratulates the Prime Minister and all new rulers on their appointment. The simple fact that, after such a long cabinet formation, our country is once again under missionary rule is worth congratulations. From this place, we would also like to thank all the rulers of the Rutte II Cabinet for their commitment to our country. They have worked very hard in very difficult circumstances to help the Netherlands recover socially and economically, and to repair the damage caused by the worst financial and economic crisis in 80 years. The Netherlands needed a stable cabinet in 2012 to deal with the major economic turbulence. Even without a majority in this house, this political stability has been achieved. And with results, according to the figures that form the basis of the new coalition agreement "Confidence in the future." The economy is growing again. The labour market is attracting rapidly. The affordability of our welfare state is secured. The Rutte III cabinet rightly has the aim that all Dutch people must now experience, feel, that our country has the social, economic and financial winds again. As a PvdA party in the Senate, we will follow the policy and legislation of this cabinet constructively-critically, and, as it should be the case for the First Chamber, in particular, testing for feasibility, enforcement and quality, but also for legality, equality and justice. Our group sincerely welcomes a number of plans in the coalition agreement. Combating bogus constructions in flexible work, and minimum rates for zzpunkers. Maintaining compulsory retirement. The experiments with legal weed cultivation. A "Right to Challenge" scheme for citizens and local associations in municipalities. Extension of paternity leave. Increasing expenditure on development cooperation. The desire to gain support for measures in civil society. These are all things that our group has been advocating in recent years. We will approach these intentions from our new role in the opposition with a positive attitude, as it is so well called. This may compensate for the critical attitude of the CDA group when growing pot. At the same time, there are proposals in the coalition agreement that we, as a PvdA, would have really made differently or not at all. Because they unnecessarily undermine people's security of existence. Because they do not reduce, or even increase, the social contradictions in our society. Because they deal with the social problems too little ambitiously. It will not surprise the Prime Minister that our criticism focuses, for example, on abolishing the dividend tax. We will come back to this during the General Financial Reviews in this house the next week, but here and now we want to say that the argument that the Brexit requires for this does not convince us. The cabinet attaches great importance to Dutch standards and values. Well, so do we, and wider than just understanding the Wilhelmus. The Anglo-Saxon culture of hard profit maximization does not match the continental tradition of the Rhineland model, which is so deeply rooted in our history. Companies that would undermine this tradition with a blunt "winner takes all" mentality are allowed to stay away from us. I would like to dwell on a tax measure that is at least as worrying as we are today: the increase in the low VAT rate from 6% to 9%. According to the coalition parties, it is not a problem, because it would be compensated for all Dutch people in the purchasing power picture. But by now, we know that Minister Koolmees immediately had to put that into perspective in his first letter to Parliament; it is precisely groups in which a VAT increase on the essentials of life is most severe that will lag behind in their purchasing power development or even decline. Pensioners, beneficiaries, low-income people, their daily bread is becoming more expensive, while their income development is lagging behind. That is, in itself, serious enough. But we also do not understand the possible damage that the cabinet caused by the VAT increase to independent shopkeepers, the people who work hard and forsake the ten years of crisis have survived. Bakeries, bike makers, vegetable farmers, barbers, they often still have a hard time today, because of the consequences of the crisis, but also because of the increasing share of internet shopping. However, the government agreement is silent in all languages about the impact of the VAT increase on small retailers, while they play a crucial role in maintaining viability and social cohesion in neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and villages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u166	Let me return to Mrs Barth's remark that the 3% increase in the low VAT rate would affect the lowest income groups in such a way as to reduce them. That's what I thought I heard her say. I thought I understood that in the case of all the tax measures, the lowest income groups are at least a few tens ahead of them, while the lowest income groups are reduced by €10 by the increase in VAT. This means de facto that there is a net increase in the financial opportunities for these groups. So where did those numbers you're using come from, that they're getting worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u167	I did not say that the increase in VAT would lead to a deterioration in those groups. I can quote from the letter of 27 October which Minister Koolmees sent to both Chambers. As far as purchasing power is concerned, it says that 12% of pensioners are going down or down 2% to 0%. This applies to 9% of the beneficiaries and 6% of the self-employed. I note, therefore, that the purchasing power image of the cabinet leads to this letter, which also states that 5% of households suffer from a decrease in purchasing power by up to 2% a year. That 5% group, whose purchasing power is therefore deteriorating by up to 2% a year, is precisely the group that suffers from making the basic necessities more expensive, which is caused by a VAT increase, than those with a higher income, because they have lost a higher percentage of their income to those basic necessities. I think that's just the little abc I used to learn in economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u168	I do not understand that abc, because I understand that it is not the case that low-paid people have lost a greater share of their disposable income by increasing VAT. That applies equally to all groups. That's one. Secondly, if I understand you correctly now, you say that there is a few percent that is not greatly advanced by government policy. This is regrettable, but it is not the case that this is because VAT is increased by 3%. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u169	Mr. De Graaf hasn't got my point yet. I have indicated that, according to the government's purchasing power letter, 5% of the Dutch people in income are getting worse because of the government's policy. This is not necessarily due to the VAT increase. I do not know, because the government agreement does not reflect exactly what impact the VAT increase has on that purchasing power development. I will also ask the Prime Minister to make it clear to us what that influence is. In any case, I note that 5% of the Dutch population are declining in purchasing power. These are the lower incomes, and they have lost a greater share of their income to basic necessities. They have less income and therefore can spend less money on non-essential necessities. A larger proportion of their income is related to primary necessities and these basic necessities become more expensive as a result of the VAT increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u170	I have one more question for Mrs Barth. She goes on the low VAT rate here and she also claims that the PvdA never voted for a VAT increase. That is correct, because in the Kunduz agreement there was an increase in the higher VAT rate and you did not agree to that at the time. But then you sat in Rutte II and left it all untouched. If you're so involved in this tax increase and you're having such a hard time with it, why didn't you reverse it? Because your party could have negotiated that with the VVD for Rutte II at the time. You didn't. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u171	I do not think it would be useful to have a debate today that we could have had in this house five years ago and four years ago. In any case, it is clear that we, the Labour Party, have been careful to ensure that a balanced purchasing power picture was created and that no one in the Netherlands was getting worse. In recent years hundreds of millions, over a billion, have been allocated to maintain the purchasing power of older people in particular. We are now finding that this line, which has been fixed over the past few years, has been abandoned by this cabinet and that it is accepted that 5% of the income on it is declining. We believe that this is a bad start for the cabinet, and we also believe that increasing the cost of the basic necessities does not fit in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u172	I think this is somewhat hypocritical of Mrs Barth, because under Rutte II the burden has been increased by 20 billion. It's up by 20 billion. Then don't say "yes, we're not going to talk about the previous period," because it's all working now. So I think it's very easy for you to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u173	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u174	It wasn't right for me yet. I took a look at the government's replies sent to our Chamber. It says literally: "The increase in the low VAT rate is linked to the reduction in the burden on labour. The introduction of a two-disk system with a basic rate of 36.93% and a top rate of 49.5%, an increase in the general tax rebate and a net increase in the labour cut, will improve the purchasing power of all income groups, but especially workers, in the coming years. All income groups therefore benefit from the tax mix." So I understand that in your opinion the cabinet is writing nonsense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u175	I note that at least the cabinet is causing confusion. I think you are now quoting answers to questions about the coalition agreement. I note, then, that on 27 October, after that, a letter from the cabinet came to the Chambers on the explanation of the purchasing power effects in the government agreement. In it, I quoted just that sentence in the letter "For 5% of households, purchasing power decreases by up to 2% a year." So the cabinet didn't talk nonsense in your answers. I always assume that a cabinet doesn't speak any nonsense at all. I also assume that this letter from the cabinet is correct. And then I would very much like to know how this relates to that VAT increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u176	In any case, I would advise Mrs Barth to always rely on the last letter we received, on the latest information. And I just read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u177	I'd like to leave the answer to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement, as I have just said, is silent in all the languages about the impact of the VAT increase on small retailers, while they play a crucial role in maintaining viability and social cohesion in neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and villages. They deserve respect and appreciation. Surely the Prime Minister will agree with us. Then why is the cabinet affecting their security of existence? They will only be able to choose between two evils: to pass on the VAT increase to their customers, thereby worsening their competitive position, or not raising their prices, and thereby reducing their own income. Especially shopkeepers in shrinking areas are hard hit, says VNO-NCW, for example. President Hans de Boer recently warned that precisely there in no less than 45% of the municipalities the vacancy in shopping malls has increased in recent years. As a PvdA, we have already drawn attention to the consequences of population contraction during the 2013 General Political Reviews. A motion from our side on this issue was widely supported at the time. Today I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to map the impact of the VAT increase on the local and regional economy in shrinking regions, and specifically in border regions, and to inform us as the First Chamber of this. The low rate is higher than the low rate in Belgium and Germany as a result of this measure. The VAT increase is also risky in other respects. Fruit and vegetables are becoming more expensive, while the Health Monitor of the CBS recently showed that 6 out of 10 Dutch children do not eat enough fruit and vegetables. Sports is getting more expensive. One would think that a sensible cabinet, which, in its own words, wants to make a full effort to prevent health problems such as obesity, would want to promote as much as 50 million for prevention in health care, food for fruit and vegetables and sports. But the VAT increase is putting a brake on it. Why not choose a review of what belongs in the low rate and what doesn't, to stimulate healthy behavior? Medicine and tools are becoming more expensive, and that ultimately haunts healthcare premiums. This particularly affects vulnerable elderly people. And what about the cultural sector? The cabinet says it wants to stimulate culture and also invests in the arts, but at the same time tickets for concert and theatre and museum visits become more expensive as a result of the VAT increase. The cabinet has allocated 5 million to stimulate investigative journalism; an excellent plan. At the same time, however, the VAT increase is pushing up the price of newspapers, causing much more damage than the 5 million to be compensated. Book merchants are all jammed up. The fixed book price means that they can't move with the VAT increase until they're out of stock, while booksellers are already the retailers with the smallest margin, having to fight against giant Internet companies such as Amazon's own now owns a personal asset of $100 billion, while at the same time being indispensable in the fight against low literacy and reading. We do not need this increase in VAT; that is something that should be clear. But if she gets there, is the Cabinet prepared to sit down with the booksellers to deal with the consequences for them properly? In conclusion, is the Prime Minister prepared to map all the social consequences of the VAT increase and to inform us as a Chamber about this? Mr. Chairman. Many people in our country are worried about growing social inequality. People experience a lack of social cohesion, feel uncertain in a rapidly changing, unstable world, and fear that they or their children will only get worse. For us as PvdA this is one of the biggest challenges for Dutch society and therefore for politics. Here too, we regret to note that the coalition agreement contains double messages. On the one hand, fine words about an inclusive society and combating discrimination. But also heartless lyrics like "we want to offer opportunities that people have to catch themselves." The WRR report Knowing is not yet a thing that has dramatically portrayed what an empty word "grabbing opportunities" are for millions of compatriots, for example because they have an IQ of 85 or lower, or are low-educated. When can we expect the cabinet response to this excellent report? I would like to inform the Prime Minister that my group is very much in need of this cabinet response in order to reach a verdict on the proposal for the donorship in this house. So we very much hope that this cabinet response will reach us before we deal with that bill. Will this reaction include what this cabinet wants to do for these groups? And for the 1 million Dutch people in digital darkness: no computer, no internet, no email address, no digital skills? Is there going to be an attack plan to help the differences in health and life expectancy between people with lower and higher education leave our country? How are people in shelter, for example, to ask the Prime Minister to "take chances" if their income falls significantly as a result of the measures in the government agreement and they can no longer build up a pension? How does a "wide selection at the gate of further education" relate to a fair opportunity for every child in our education? In any case, we are disappointed in the limited ambitions with education of this coalition. Additional investment in primary education is nice, sure. But not a cent for less work pressure in secondary education and higher vocational education is hardly even mentioned. There will be 5 million to fight low-literacy, but that is the proverbial drop on a glowing plate: well worth €3 per low-literate. Why not just have as clear an ambition as it is a recruitment ambition: that every child in the Netherlands learns to read and write? This is not the case now, although it is the basis of an inclusive society in which everyone can participate. Moreover, it is also an excellent reason to keep books away from the VAT increase. We would like to make another suggestion to strengthen the opportunities of these large groups of compatriots: integral care close to home. That works. This has now been adequately proven abroad and with experiments in their own country. The hard reality is known: lonely people go to the doctor more often. People out of work take more medication. People with learning difficulties fall more easily into the smooth talk of tobacco dealers and soft drinks manufacturers. People in debt suffer so much from stress that their intelligence drops and their demand for care increases. Complicated problems, which soon turn out to be a solution if different health and welfare professionals work together. Intensive and well-oiled cooperation between general practitioner, pharmacist and district nurse, social district teams of municipalities and the outpatient teams of ggz and mentally handicapped care and care for the elderly only makes a profit, both in the health and quality of life of people and in the financial sense: the care becomes more sensible and more economical. But it is hampered by separate money flows, differences in regulation and culture of works. This cooperation will only come about if the government takes control, brings parties together and barriers are bad. That would also have been the logical next step in the Rutte II measures. Yet "the first line" does not appear in the coalition agreement. Clearly there is no drive to take the much-needed steps forward here. The secluded portfolios of no less than three rulers on VWS create more fragmentation. We ask the Prime Minister whether he shares the wish of the Labour Party for a modern, integrated first line of concern. If so, what will his cabinet do to bring it closer? Is the cabinet prepared to come up with a plan of action to compensate for the deafening silence of the coalition agreement on this subject, and then would like to be led by only one coordinating executive on VWS? Or ruler, I'm afraid I can say here. Mr President, that brings me to the last concern about this coalition that we want to share today. This concerns the state of our rule of law. Values like "a deal is a deal," "the same rules apply to everyone" and "everyone is innocent until proven otherwise" are just as fundamentals under our daily lives as food, drink and a roof over your head. This spring, we will have a policy debate on the rule of law in this Chamber. But that should not prevent us from saying a few words about it today. We also see steps forward in the coalition agreement, such as the experiments with neighbourhood judges and extra-judicial mediaton. But we also have concerns, especially about the criminal justice chain. The new coalition is spending a lot of money to strengthen national police, especially for more detectives and cops in the neighborhood. Well, that's fine in itself, of course. But if the work of those extra people does not get an effective follow-up to the sitting and standing magistrate, then this only leads to frustrations, among citizens and policemen. Can the Prime Minister explain the capacity and strength of the prosecutor and the judiciary? Is it robust enough to ensure that additional efforts by the police will be followed up efficiently and effectively? What about, for example, the improvement of ICT systems and the quality of communication and transfer between police, prosecutors and judiciary? And what about the development of the number of community sentences imposed and executed? What's the situation with absenteeism, turnover and new growth in the state's attorney's office and the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u178	We support Mrs Barth and the PvdA Group in their efforts to strengthen the rule of law and share concerns. Concerns have also recently been expressed about the legal aid that has been financed. The Van der Meer Committee has estimated that 127 million extra is needed to maintain the legal aid financed. Are you also an ally in this to see if we can provide for it? Because, of course, that is also a fundamental part of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u179	Certainly, we believe that this report should be carried out. It is very important to keep access to justice equal in our country. Very important. Mr. Chairman. The Kuijken report shows that the situation in the national police is far from ideal. Can the Prime Minister give us an insight into how much extra money has been allocated to national police since the introduction? And did that also lead to higher quality? The Kuijken Committee questions it, if only because there are no clear quality indicators to measure progress. Are they gonna get there? The Kuijken Committee also notes that the national police are too centralised and that the local embedding of the police has suffered damage. Many mayors are unable to fulfil their responsibility for public order, according to the report. This was one of the reasons why our group voted against the arrival of the national police force in 2012 and why our colleague Willem Witteveen tabled a motion in March 2014 in favour of relocating responsibility for the police to the Minister of the Interior, who is also responsible for the internal administration. This motion was then rejected, but a similar motion by colleague De Graaf was adopted in this house in October 2015. Why was it decided during the cabinet formation not to carry out this excellent motion of D66, we ask the Prime Minister. Doesn't the Kuijken report show how right that signal was back then? This would immediately provide a solution for the difficult driverable mammoth tanker that is now the Ministry of JenV: a problem that is not addressed with a name change and the appointment of two captains. To be honest, that only adds to our concerns. One small steering error on such a huge ship causes the port to be missed. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. We know the Prime Minister as a man with an open ear and an outstretched hand to parties that are not part of the government. That gives us the conviction that he will come up with a serious and benevolent response to the concerns and wishes we have expressed. We're looking forward to his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u180	Thank you, Mrs Barth. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the Prime Minister on his new, third cabinet, of which I welcome all Members. I look forward to working with you all. It took a long time, but then you get some interesting appointments on sometimes surprisingly composed portfolios in a well-balanced set of four parties that a year ago could hardly imagine that they would be brought together in an elongated formation. A "artist-sicated vase" to talk to Romme about the first cabinet Drees. That vase doesn't show a crack or a fracture line for a while. Let us hope that this stays the same for the next three and a half years. I am glad that my party has joined and is not on the sidelines in these exciting times, when the international legal order, national democracy and the rule of law and the climate are under pressure... that is very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u182	I am standing here to make one comment. Until recently, D66 was not in the cabinet. Did you feel sidelined then, or did you find yourself a functioning part of national democracy, because a coalition can't do without an opposition? If you say in your first sentences 'we are not on the sidelines', you will actually tell the rest of the Chamber, which is not in this blissful cabinet, that they are on the sidelines. I can understand such an indication from certain groups, but not from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u183	I know that for the SP the sideline is the place to be. It's probably gonna stay that way for the next few decades. I think the opposition is important. I will say that a few more times in my text, but I think it is even better if a party is able to actually participate in the power and exercise of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u184	Then let's go deeper. Is there a playing field in the vision of D66 and is there a sideline? On the sidelines I understand that you are on the other side of the sidelines; then you are out. Is that the view of D66, of Democrats 66 on the functioning of parliamentary democracy? I can't imagine. I congratulate D66 on participating in this cabinet. My party would have liked to participate in a cabinet, not this cabinet. I already told you that's gonna happen again. I'm not worried about that. Maybe I'll be with you or our parties in a cabinet like that. But the role of the opposition indicates that the parties on the sidelines sound populist and opportunistic. It doesn't sound D66-like at all. That's why I respond to that rather quickly. As chairman of the political group of the largest left party in this Chamber, I do not feel sidelined at all. I'm in with all the other players here on the field. I hope that will be our relationship in the future. We leave that qualifying "sideline" to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u185	In the name of my party is democracy. I can't say that about the SP, but I can say that about D66. Democracy is important to us. And yes, democracy belongs to opposition and coalition. A coalition has the opportunity to change something very directly, with its hands on the team. He doesn't have an opposition. He can influence the sidelines and can also welcome, Mr. Kox, but can't put his own hands on the team. There's a difference. Furthermore, with all due respect to your generally interesting contributions, I find it really looking for nails on low water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u186	Mr. Kox, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u187	Who threw the nails? Who started with a disqualification of about half the minus one of this Chamber that's not in the coalition? That won't be necessary, colleague De Graaf. You don't have to do that. We're all playing along. My party rules in six of the twelve provinces and in four of the six largest cities, including the capital with your party. We are represented in 30 of the 60 largest municipalities in the local government. So we're playing on that side of the field, too. We must refrain from disqualifying the opposition to the coalition. That didn't happen to you when you were in opposition with us. You shouldn't do that now that your party's in the coalition. I wish you well in that coalition, but there is no need to sow that division. That is another trend in politics. I thought Democrats 66 would stay far from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u188	I stand by my qualification that Mr Kox is looking for nails on low water and that he is better able to spend his energy on other purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u189	I would like to extend my warmest thanks to Mr De Graaf for his honeymoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u190	Well, not mine. That's where the cabinet is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u191	I know all too well how much you are going to long for those first few weeks in the coming years, in which it just seems delicious to be on the buttons. But I had another question because I felt that Mr De Graaf's speech was in fact seamless in my own. I didn't want to interrupt you because you had just begun. But now that that's happened, I'm gonna take my chance. You say that the division of labour in the new cabinet is such a finely crafted vase. You are obviously very pleased with this, although I would have expected you to be very dissatisfied with the fact that your motion has not been carried out and that the national police have not been returned to the Ministry of the Interior. I just said in my own story that it was an excellent motion. Willem Witteveen had tried it for you. He couldn't do it. You could do it. That motion was passed here. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I address you, but it was Mr De Graaf's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u192	Could you keep it short, too, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u193	Sure, Mr. Chairman! It was an excellent motion. We have wholeheartedly supported it. Then it is so strange to hear Mr De Graaf now say that he thinks that the division of tasks of the new cabinet resembles a finely worked vase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u194	I think Mrs Barth should be better quoted in the first place. Secondly, she must also think that it is very early in the debate. I'm here to talk about the national police and the motion. It's kind of weird to ask such an explicit question about that already, after three sentences, I think. I will be happy to answer it when I get there in my text. I said there's plenty of reason to sit in a cabinet. Rutte III has a solid assignment. I could also say 'the Rutte/De Jonge/Ollongren/Schouten cabinet', but that may be a bit exaggerated. Or "the Rutte/Buma/Pechtold/Segers cabinet," because three of the four political foremen are left behind in the Lower House, but are still as many outboard engines of the cabinet, albeit with different assets and speed or not. This is an additional reason for wishing the cabinet much success and strength. In particular, the Prime Minister gets a decent job: coalition consultation on Monday, cabinet presidium on Tuesday, Thursday, executive consultation and the rest of the week ensure that events just stay events and don't end up in disasters. It is a miracle that there is still time left for the king, for Macron and for Merkel, let alone for the class at the Johan de Witt College. The Prime Minister also receives a rather large class in the Trêveszaal: sixteen ministers and eight more Secretary of State, a lot more than under Rutte I and II. Of course there is a four-party structure behind that, I understand, but I hope also the realization that rulers who have too much on their plate are not necessarily the most effective drivers. Not everyone is a Duracell rabbit, as the Prime Minister has been described disrespectfully. Moreover, in our parliamentary history there have been cabinets with many more ministers and secretaries of state. For example, what did the Prime Minister think of the Den Uyl cabinet with twenty-eight rulers? Now I believe that Mark Rutte would rather not think of the Den Uyl cabinet at all, but he can rest assured: he has an average cabinet in size. I can also congratulate the Prime Minister on the record of his previous cabinet: the longest-standing post-war team, no less than 1,815 days. However, he has to share the credits for this record with a lot of parties, of course with Diederik Samsom's Labour Party. Together they held Rutte II up all these years, although it cost the color on the cheeks of both parties and ultimately also the political career of Samsom, a politician for which I also have great respect. The constructive opposition also contributed to the success of the previous cabinet, in both chambers. You would wish each cabinet such a constructive opposition: where it can, support and, where necessary, seek good and sustainable compromises. I'm looking around, but I don't see any obvious enthusiastic candidates applying for this character role in the new episode. However, the fact that the previous cabinet has been in office for so long is also due to parties who, on the contrary, did not want to bear responsibility. Those parties have also contributed to the long duration of the formation, not because of the ambitions they had, but you could say precisely because of the lack of them. For a variety of reasons, the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party have dropped out and have not come to the table. Only from the Labour Party have I understood that. The electoral earwash was simply too big, and then there is only one option: licking wounds, strengthening and, in particular, I say it to Mr Kox now serve democracy in opposition. My own party has been able to experience this on a number of occasions and it has always proved to be purifying. Although I'm not sure that can be of any comfort to Louis Asscher or Marleen Barth. If the parties place themselves outside the political discourse in advance or back down at the formation table to make compromises which do not correspond to their own programme, that is, in my view, a form of govern ment. I can't see it any other way. Government often means paying electoralally, that's right. Even the prime minister party loses. Opposition pays off in our present society. Unfortunately, the political spectrum has now been strengthened with parties that are primarily focused on this, which use the Chamber of Parliament as the arena to express and fight positions, but not as the agora where compromises are made and sold. If the number of parties that do not rise above that is increasing, the ruleability of our country will be at risk. An important leitmotiv in this almost eternal formation was the care with which was negotiated. hedgehogs could have taken an example. In a politically fragmented landscape without a clear mandate from the electorate, it is extremely complicated to forge a stable coalition nonetheless, especially when all the wings and tail feathers of all the groups are needed for the majority. Such a thing costs ausdauer and craftsmanship, according to the word of Bas de Gaay Fortman: "the art of ivory turning." It is worth complimenting the negotiators and the informers and reformer that this has finally been achieved in the form of an ordinary parliamentary majority cabinet. The Prime Minister called it in the government statement a search for the quadrature of the circle. According to a highly educated colleague in my group, that is precisely the prototypic example of a fundamentally insoluble problem, but of course it was the Prime Minister's intention, I think. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we have to worry. Confidence in parliamentary democracy is linked, among other things, to the ability of our system to act. This is at risk because of the electoral fragmentation and the inability of parties to enter into broad alliances. And because of the image, which is partly justified but partly exaggerated, that politics is a closed, self-contained and difficult-to-access caste. 100 years ago, the first step in universal suffrage was taken only for men, the active women's right to vote followed only two years later. Maybe reason to raise the glass. But next year it is also 100 years since Troelstra tried to overthrow the democratic state. A stable parliamentary democracy is never self-evident, nor is it supported by the population. In those 100 years, it has not been possible to find new ways of connecting citizens and political power within parliamentary democracy, for example, by looking for a electoral system that was better suited to the wishes of voters after a number of decades. Or by including a decisively correct referendum in the Constitution. Or let voters give a direct mandate to power. As far as that decisively correct referendum is concerned, the first attempt to do so failed in 1921, almost a century ago. Moreover, political parties on a broad basis are less and less successful in channeling and translating social movements into effective representation. So it's not working out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u195	I have a question about the corrective referendum that is now being introduced by Mr De Graaf. I understand, and I very much welcome it, that the current consultative referendum is being abolished precisely because it has not strengthened confidence in politics. What could the corrective referendum do about that? Following that question, what should really be done to strengthen citizens' confidence in politics? Are these all kinds of innovations, or are there other things you see in front of you, Mr. De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u196	That last question is the $1,000 question, if you answer it properly. That is our problem for which we seek a solution all the time. It is not just the formal structure, it is also about all the other possibilities for allowing political space to be given to citizens and for political confidence to be gained among citizens in their role as recipients of public services and of those involved in the organisation of our society. And yes, they can be structural solutions, but they don't just have to be structural solutions. They can also be new forms of democracy. That's what we're looking for together. As far as I am concerned, this is not just the task of a state committee but of all of us. With regard to the first, the correct, decisive referendum, which has unfortunately failed several times to reach the Constitution: it is not a real prospect for the future because it will not get a majority in this Chamber. For this reason, the treatment was not continued in the Lower House either. Then there is the question: do you find an advisory referendum as it currently exists and where the necessary problems have arisen, a fully-fledged alternative, or is it increasingly seen as a surrogate solution that might create more problems in practice than solves them? I think that's worth a discussion with the cabinet. So I would also like to know from the cabinet why it repeals the law on the consultative referendum before an evaluation has taken place. I also want to know why it's so brutally withdrawing that law. I'm not going to discuss this with the cabinet until the bill is with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u197	That seems to me to be a logical order. That's a thousand-dollar question that's left. I would like a little more clarification on that. Those galaxies? I don't think that's it. How do we get people to trust us? Shouldn't that start with reliability, a landline and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mr Schalk will no doubt know that I have some history when it comes to making proposals to improve our democracy. I also got some scratches in this room during the night of one and the night of the other. I'll keep looking. I have also always said that it is not the case that the proposals that I have made or which my party has made in the past are the best and only blissful solutions. It's about whether we can get support for innovation. 'Cause if you don't maintain a democracy, they're gonna be sluts. I myself feel like we're now in that sleazy period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u199	I would like a clarification from Mr De Graaf on the issue of the referendum that is being abolished. The referendum has never been abolished anywhere before, other than in East Germany. That must hurt D66 in this country, the number two, especially since the referendum for D66 was such a great success. Mr De Graaf says "I am not yet going to talk about how that referendum should be abolished," but his minister in the cabinet, at least his party colleague in the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u200	Nobody's my minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u201	No, I said at least his partymate in the cabinet. He's already made an advance on it. He has said: this law will not be referendable. Could Mr De Graaf imagine that, for example, the constitutional changes he referred to earlier have a less cumbersome way of working? After all, such a constitutional change is a lot of hassle, so we are going to do so a little faster, without the need for all kinds of special majorities in both Chambers." Could that be possible and could this be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u202	Frankly, I can't tie any more rope to it, I say to Mr Koffeman. You are now calling for the constitutional review procedure. It really has nothing to do with the question of what will happen to the Advisory referendum Act. I wouldn't want to confuse those things either. I would also advise you not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u203	I don't mix things up at all. But the Council of State has said that the repeal of the referendum law should be referendable, that you cannot take a shortcut for that, that you cannot change the rules of the game during the game. I compare that with an amendment to the Constitution, whereby you do change the rules of the game. I am sorry that you cannot tie a rope to that; you have studied for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u204	That's probably why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u205	Well, I don't know. That shouldn't be necessary. But can you at least explain why you do not want to say anything about the fact that a party colleague of yours in the cabinet already announces that you want to change the rules of the game during the game?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u206	I think I've been sufficiently clear. Moreover, Mr Koffeman is now referring to an opinion of the Council of State that I do not know, unless he is speaking in my opinion of the year 2003, which was about something quite different and about another law. I do not know otherwise than that the cabinet, I believe last Friday, decided to offer the Council of State a law to repeal the referendum law. We do not know any advice from the Council of State, but if you do, that means that you have access to files that I do not have and secondly that the Council of State is working incredibly fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u207	Then let's wait and see. But I regret that you do not want to respond from your party's background to the question of why the rules of the game are being changed during the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u208	I'm not gonna repeat what I just said over and over again. I have also included in my text the question that is relevant, namely why the cabinet has decided to adopt a repeal law instead of waiting for the evaluation. I have added a qualification to that. So I also want good and convincing answers from the government. That's the spirit. In this Chamber, that debate comes when the bill reaches us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u209	Mr De Graaf talks about trust, but isn't it true that trust is being damaged because the government ignores the outcome of the referendum? Worse still, political parties say they will respect the outcome of the referendum, but then they do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u210	I believe that there is still a referendum in the pipeline, the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act. As far as I am concerned, what has always been the case with the law is that the outcome must be seriously considered. I think that is true of the referendum that has been held, and that is true of the referendum that is to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u211	That's not an answer to my question. I asked whether confidence is not being violated because the government ignores the outcome of the referendum. Worse...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u212	Have you heard a statement from the government that says that literally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u213	Well, that's kind of lame, of course. Well, of course, the government parties voted in favour of the Constitutional Act of the referendum. So this is a little faint; you are going to play a game with words now, but my question is simply whether it is not true that confidence is being damaged because people are being told first that they will respect the outcome of the referendum and then do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u214	No, Mrs Faber should be the first to know that politics is indeed about words and the meaning of words. You have shown again today that you consider it somewhat less relevant that words can have enormous meaning. I choose my words carefully. To my knowledge, it has not been said by a member of the cabinet or on behalf of the government that the result of a referendum is by definition being overturned. If you mean that someone in the House of Representatives has said that he thinks that the result is less serious, it is on that Member of Parliament in the House of Representatives and not on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u215	Finally, on this point, Mrs Faber, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u216	I'll be brief. The answer given by Mr De Graaf shows that he simply refuses to answer the question, because he simply knows that this is a sensitive point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u217	I think I answered the question more than I did, and I added a few things that you didn't like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u218	Mr De Graaf rightly recalls that he cannot be accused of not trying to renew democracy, including by adding referenda to our democracy. I will certainly not fight that, but how does he suggest the cabinet's decision to throw away the consultative referendum and not get the corrective referendum? That's gotta hurt, right? I remember the debate we had here on these two referenda. I also remember how Mr De Graaf explained it to the other colleagues: don't be so afraid; this is not a violation of parliamentary democracy but an addition to parliamentary democracy. I think you have always said so consistently. This Chamber has not always cooperated; let us put it this way, but it must also hurt Mr De Graaf that we are both getting rid of these two things now and that we are saying to a D66 minister that you must do so. I said this is a bit like a hazing ritual. That was a little cynical, but I think it's quite a bit like D66 and you're now obliged to distance yourself from things that D66 and you have stood for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u219	First of all, Mr Kox knows better than anyone that it is not the case that a Member or a group is obliged to renounce something here in this Chamber. I also find it strange that he, who is so attached to the rules of the game and the positions of both Chambers, speaks such words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u220	I apologize for that. On that point, I have indeed to wait and see what the D66 Group will do, but you can respond to the fact that it is not in the coalition agreement; even more so, that the coalition agreement will deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u221	Yes, and I didn't conclude the coalition agreement, I can tell you. That doesn't mean I'm not very loyal to my party, but I didn't sit at the table. Then if you ask about my emotions, I suggest we always have a beer about emotions. This is about business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u222	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u223	We'll have that beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u224	We will. Okay, well, that's the profit of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u225	Yes, the Irish pub is open very late tonight. So we can go there, but I am not asking about Mr De Graaf's emotions. If you have stood so consistently for democratic renewal and if you see that this cabinet rather opts for the democratic destruction of the added instruments that we could have had and could have been given, should a coalition group that is fully involved in the game and which is not on the sidelines also come up with a point of criticism? Mr De Graaf has criticised the way in which the government handles the matter, but the essence is that, if it is up to this government, there will be no more consultative and no more corrective referendum. D66 in this Chamber can't say that's a good thing, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u226	I believe that Mr Kox's last sentence is also a bit of a question about the familiar road. In a coalition agreement not everything is rose-scented and moonshine. At the same time, there are arguments why people, also out of full conviction, believe that the consultative referendum should not continue in this way and in this form. I want to be able to weigh those arguments too. That is why I await the reply of the government, the legislative proposal by definition, the explanatory statement and the debate that will take place in the House of Representatives, but certainly also here. Nothing is done for my group and certainly not an obligation. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say that our political democracy is really too important to leave to the whims of self-appointed saviors of the homeland. Modernisation of the political system is necessary to maintain and regain confidence. Not only can we outsource this to the Remkes State Commission, but we will also have to see it as a task for ourselves. By the way, I say over your head to Mr Kox that this Chamber had already included in the order that we should look at the electoral system. In this respect, that element, that phrase in the coalition agreement, is actually a little superfluous, because I assume that this is already being looked at, because we have asked for it. We shall, as I have said, also have to see it as an assignment to ourselves. The worst response to the system crisis is the umpteenth report of a state committee that disappears into a drawer. It's not just about structural solutions; Mr. Schalk, there he is! Democracy is more than just the formal relationship between citizens and government. It is also about people's confidence in the power of political governance, in its responsiveness and in its accessibility and the confidence that political governance itself places in people. In this respect, the government agreement's support for the de-constitutionalisation of the mayor's method of appointment may offer opportunities. You will understand that on this very point I exercise some caution in my optimism. The Prime Minister spoke in the government statement about the task of his cabinet to understand the urgency of this time. I very much agree with him. This is an important task. I assume, I say to him, that he also includes the modernisation of our democracy. Mr. Chairman. Whether Rutte III is a very ordinary cabinet, as the Prime Minister said, we will have to wait and see. In any case, I hope that there will not often be sharp and hard contradictions between coalition and opposition in this Chamber and that the voting relationships here will not always depend on the last man or woman. This requires willingness and trust from all sides. My group will also be committed to this. The Rutte III coalition agreement is, of course, a relevant guide for us, if only because a significant part of our party programme is included, but it is not a law of Medes and Persians for us. What my group wants to take into account, of course, is that a government agreement is always a negotiation result, a compromise between parties who take responsibility but who want and have to accept that not only they but also the others can find sufficient value in it. Anyone who wants to take another man's stone out of the wall too easily, I say that in general. As far as we're concerned, that structure looks solid. Where additional resources are available, they are used for the right priorities. Where reforms are needed, they will be announced. Innovation through science and technology is stimulated and at least not blocked in advance on a medical-ethical level, but that does not mean that every stone in the building looks equally beautiful. I am thinking, for example, of abolishing the dividend tax. If the bill reaches this Chamber, the cabinet will still need some persuasion to convince my group. The same applies to the intention to repeal the Advisory referendum Act. For my group, reductions in education in order to promote efficiency while at the same time investing are more of a blot on the previous cabinet that the negotiators forgot to clean away than a necessary measure. Doesn't the Prime Minister think so himself? My group will, as always, review legislation resulting from the coalition agreement on quality, feasibility and rule of law. On the basis of the concrete legislative proposals, we will assess whether the cabinet will also give the confidence it has in the future to society and to the institutions of that society. This means, in many cases, that politics must remain at a distance instead of prescribing, checking and settling everything. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet may, for example, keep some distance from the institutions of the rule of law. Too much political interference is rarely good, except if it ensures that legal aid can continue to function properly. My group considers the text in the coalition agreement to be somewhat economical on this point. Furthermore, in order to balance the services essential to our rule of law, I would have preferred the administration of the police to be reduced to Home Affairs. Mrs Barth was way ahead of that. A statement by this Chamber has unfortunately been ignored by the old but also by the new cabinet. As far as I am concerned, the national police are worthy of a separate debate; in fact, a parliamentary inquiry. It seems to be a typical case of wanting too much and too little. There are lessons to be learned from that. Instead of balancing the traditional rule of law ministries, we now have two ministers in the mega-department of Justice and Security with a more than remarkable portfolio distribution. The sitting and standing magistrate have been pulled apart, justice and law enforcement have been cut and all the legal issues are at the top attorney's office as icing on the cake. The roads of the formatter are sometimes inscrutable. But I wish the two ministers and the Secretary of State at this difficult ministry every success and above all a longer stay than several of their predecessors had been given. Mr President, the cabinet is going to rule in economically advantageous times. This creates the opportunity but also the obligation to further stimulate and use that tide to implement necessary reforms. With regard to D66, an extremely important mission of this cabinet is an urgent and ambitious climate policy, which must be rigorous but also requires support in society. It's a tough job. For this reason alone, I still regret that GroenLinks chose to put it on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u227	Mr. De Graaf is in the process of provoking and disqualifying, and in the meantime he is constantly asking for constructive cooperation in one breath. Maybe a different tone will help. He's talking about no ambition, reign and choosing the sidelines. He was pretty close when we were trying to reach a coalition agreement in that process. We were full of ambition and we were doing our best. We have made an assessment based on content. Perhaps Mr De Graaf's party thinks more in strategies. I don't know. However, I would like Mr De Graaf to show some respect at some point for the fact that a substantive assessment has certain limits and that you can sometimes run into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u228	I respect that very much, I just don't understand it and I find it extremely regrettable. It is truly regrettable that the opportunity that existed to certainly provide a great deal of support for climate policy and perhaps to make it even clearer if GroenLinks had stayed at that table was not taken by GroenLinks. I'm telling you the truth. There's no lack of respect for that. It's just a factual observation of my disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u229	That's what I like to hear, because I share that disappointment. Mr De Graaf knows that. But the words he has already used throughout this period appear to me as a disqualification rather than a pity that it has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u230	I can only see that the decisions of the parties to stay away from that table or to leave it also spoke of an element of the possible electoral consequences and did not want to face the position of the parties. I would very much regret that. If that is not the case, I hope to hear it. As I said, climate policy is an important task. Nevertheless, I hope that a new climate law, for example, can be a joint project. I say that to Mrs Strik in particular. A new climate law is important. The cabinet is committed to a national climate and energy agreement and to working with industry and institutions to reach Paris and preferably pass: 49% CO reduction in 2030 and 55% in the European context if possible. These are fine intentions, which my group wholeheartedly supports, but how is the cabinet going to achieve them? More action will be needed than is currently foreseen. Why not focus on, for example, the previous closure of one or more coal-fired power stations, for example, already in this cabinet period? The Prime Minister's motto on climate policy is, I understand, long-term thinking and short-term action. I would like to see the latter. My group also wonders how thoroughly I am sorry for the pun "the intention of the underground storage of CO" has been considered. Is that actually feasible on this scale and on what basis does the cabinet base this assumption? We look forward to the measures taken in the care sector, in particular care for the elderly and prevention. Here, too, a great deal is expected from agreements and agreements. They can, of course, provide support, but never exceed the responsibility of government and parliament. In the end, this also applies to the announced reforms of the labour market and the pension system. Minister Koolmees as the new polder pope, it takes some getting used to, but we have great confidence in it. In recent years, my colleague Alexander Rinnooy Kan has raised the opposition to the impossible DBA Act and we are pleased to see that the cabinet has opted for another system to counter bogus self-employment but not to get in the way of realzzp'ers. Here too, it will be necessary to pay close attention to feasibility and enforcement, precisely those criteria which the law now to be repealed failed to meet. The in itself modest revision of the tax system has already stirred up a lot of discussion. My group supports the greening and shift from taxation of labour to taxation of consumption. I personally think it is a great step forward that the four coalition parties have managed to find each other in an accelerated reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. In my group's view, it is not unfair that the element of housing subsidies for homeowners who no longer have a mortgage should be reduced step by step. It is a pity that the cabinet has no plans to increase the local tax area, of course in a neutral way. Certainly the great decentralisations of recent years could have served as many arguments as possible in order to take that step. It would also have been a fundamental choice to give substance to the importance of democratic choices at the level where services are provided to citizens, close to the citizen. The decentralisation debate will also call for a follow-up, even more urgent if more national responsibilities are transferred to municipalities. In this context, we also expect the government to have the necessary ambition to strengthen administrative power in the decentralised administration and to reduce administrative pressure. Mr President, last year I mentioned equal opportunities for all as a touchstone for a new cabinet. Social policy and integration naturally contribute to this, but education is at the heart of this task. Fortunately, the coalition agreement pays attention to this, for example by encouraging stacking rather than slowing down. I do call on the education ministers to do more in disadvantaged education, so incredibly needed in our country with a growing number of pupils from non-Dutch background and with more than 2 million low-skilled. The substantial investment in primary education in particular offers more room for teachers and more room literally in the classroom. I realise that it is not fast enough and that Minister Slob will still have a lot to do to convince the teachers in the foundational education that really great steps are being taken forward. Higher education is excellent in the Netherlands and belongs to the top of Europe. Students are satisfied and the labour market prospects are excellent. The Prime Minister said in the government declaration that he wanted more freedom of education rather than less. I very much agree. Then let the cabinet make a start by relying on the quality and social strength of these higher education institutions rather than adding new conditions to the funding. My group also welcomes the 400 million structural intensification in fundamental, applied and practice-oriented research, which will enable the world's unique National Science Agenda to be implemented and the knowledge infrastructure finally to be strengthened. Can I assume, I would ask the Prime Minister, that the ministers of OCW and EZK still have to get used to that abbreviation, that this is a joint project and that a tribal struggle on this point can be avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u231	Perhaps Mr De Graaf can remember that, when we were on the sidelines together, we helped the cabinet to introduce the social loan system. This was accompanied by a low interest rate which was the social of the loan system when the loans were paid off. Now it's being raised. There is an entry fee, with a lower tuition fee for the first year. In fact, the student who has parents who earn little will be the most affected, because they will eventually have to pay that interest. How do you look at that? Do you still think the loan system is social? Isn't this making first-generation students less accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u232	Over the last few years, I myself have looked with interest and sometimes with some concern to see whether the loan system did not put pressure on accessibility. I have come to the conclusion that fortunately this has not happened in recent years. I don't suppose that's gonna happen either. I do think that the funds that will be available as a result of the abolition of the basic grant should also be well spent on the quality of education, so a direct contribution to the quality of education for the students who have had to give something away. I have also seen that phrase in the government agreement on ten-year interest rates, as it is called. I don't know if that has such an incredible effect on accessibility, but let's watch it together. If so, you will find me at your side to act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u233	We agree, that's very good, because there is already a fear that higher interest rates are indeed going to keep more students away from going to college, and we need to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u234	Fear is not a reality yet. When the study advance was introduced, on which I myself had long doubts, like my group, that was also a great fear, but fortunately it was not true either. We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u235	But it has become less social.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u236	I don't know where that term "social" actually comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u237	Socially, it was precisely because that loan could be repaid without much interest, so you didn't have a threshold to borrow. The moment you have to pay high interest, of course, it's going to be a whole different story. Then you really have to pay as a student and then the threshold gets higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u238	I told you, let's put our finger on the wrist together when it comes to accessibility. But I also think that the benefit of the loan system should be mentioned, namely more resources and opportunities to improve and strengthen the quality of higher education. That is, I think, also in the interests of future generations of students. Mr. Chairman. I should like to conclude with a few comments on the international legal order. In this highly uncertain world, a reconstruction of our defence organisation and a further intensification of international cooperation through development policy and external trade fit. As far as the latter is concerned, I explicitly ask for attention to be paid to knowledge as a raw material for international relations, the WTI diplomacy, as is now mentioned in the jargon: science, technology and innovation. The place of the Netherlands in the international discourse will have to be re-defined. This year, our country in the Security Council will be able to make a substantial contribution to the authority and role of the UN in international conflicts and tensions. That is why, according to a letter from today, it is wise that the government has now withdrawn the ill-advised plans to move out of one of the UN institutions. There are bigger interests to defend. My group expects a lot from the Ministers Zijlstra and Kaag, who appear to me, to complement each other perfectly and at least to be able to learn a lot from each other. Together with the Prime Minister, they form a formidable foreign trio. In the field of international security policy, I also assume that Minister Bijleveld will make full use of a European dimension of the armed forces. The first steps towards a coordinated and integrated European defence effort have been taken and, as far as my group is concerned, it is being vigorously pursued. Both for this and for the further development of the European Union as a community of values, as an economic, monetary and political unit, the Netherlands is heavily dependent on French and German efforts, unless the British no longer behave like lemmings and return from the brink of their own abyss. The European Union is once again in a somewhat uncertain design phase, in which old strategies and taboos are under discussion. As far as I am concerned, the Netherlands has no choice but to invest in the Franco-German axis and be a significant partner in the future debate. We now know that immigration policy can only be implemented at European level. I would like to ask for a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u239	I am not going to open the debate on the European Union, because that is what we are doing at another time. Mr De Graaf pointed out the special position we have next year, because we are members of the Security Council. Then you can say: what is that, a year, we dealt with the Italians for six months. You can't have everything, but I think we should use that one year as effectively as possible. At least we have a very expert minister who could do that. In my contribution to the government, I asked: can we not use that year mainly to continue to work for something that is also government policy, namely nuclear weapons out of the world? We were the first to stick our necks out by participating in those negotiations on an anti-nuclear weapons treaty. Can we work together across that border of a single seat, a majority or a minority, and call on the government together to use the next year as the Netherlands to lead the anti-nuclear weapons treaty, which has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, at least the initiators, to give further support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u240	I believe that we can agree that we will stand together for the international legal order. Before I can answer your question, I am very curious about the response of the cabinet to your questions. I do not think I should replace the government to answer the questions you are asking. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has no choice but to invest in the Franco-German axis and be a significant partner in the future debate. I firmly believe that we are beyond the stage where the Dutch EU policy must be determined by euroscepticism. That scepticism was and is an overestimate of the fear and disgust that would exist over Europe. Without Europe, we can't do it. Anyone who is full of Europe and who is also in favour of it, and who demonstrates the need for our prosperity, our rule of law and our peace, will, of course, also receive the people. Making a strong country even better for everyone, as the Prime Minister said in the government declaration. And everyone means all the people who are allowed to be here, with and without restrictions, with or without double passports, with or without a tan, with or without a job. A cabinet that is home to all these markets, we welcome that cabinet! I await with interest the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u241	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Full of expectation our hearts beats, because it is the last night that we can submit a wish list and who knows what Saint brings us tomorrow. In any case, we hope that the government will do its best to make everyone's Sinterklaas party. A Prime Minister who clearly advocates that we make black-witt traditions colorful, that would be a nice step towards an inclusive society. Mr President, the fragmentation in politics does not make governing simpler, but also offers opportunities. The aim of our representative democracy is also to hear the voice of minorities and to seek cooperation. It is worth complimenting that an agreement has been reached. The compromise character is visible in all paragraphs, which is understandable in itself, but vision and ambition are a little more difficult to identify. Are these two really impossible to unite? My group does not want this to happen. If we are already aware of an ambition, it will not be carried out in this cabinet period, think of the greening. And if a paragraph already expresses a vision, then the measures themselves often speak the opposite. And a number of themes that require a quick approach are untouched. We lack coherence between a problem on the one hand and a solution on the other. Of course, we understand the differences of opinion. They are clear, but standstill or silence in the event of urgent social problems is not ruling, but ignoring. During the campaign, many debates were about feelings of unease. The cabinet has to answer that. As far as we are concerned, this is investing in an inclusive society. The cabinet is also talking about this, but we mean, in money, in words and in attitude, to create links and understanding, and to ensure that everyone counts and gets a chance to develop and to contribute to society. This requires radically different choices regarding education, care, labour and income and sustainability, and an inviting participatory policy. The proposals of this cabinet are disappointing in all these respects. It speaks fine words about community, but in the end it opts again for financially driven structures. By always taking sides to the position of workers, rich people and businesses, the government continues to build an exclusive society that only strengthens segregation. The WRR points to the risks of a vulnerable middle segment affected by decline. They are becoming more uncertain and less confident in politics and politicians. According to the WRR, but also the SCP and the National Ombudsman, we expect and demand too much from people who cannot meet this requirement. They deserve more certainty and perspective. If you assume a struggle between labor and capital, this cabinet chooses the latter. This is seen, among other things, in the environmental measures, in which companies are spared, and in the abolition of the dividend tax, a gift of nearly one and a half billion! As far as we're concerned, Saint Nicholas is driving past that door. Normal Dutch people are making progress, Rutte says. Then who are the non-normal Dutch? The inequality between the highest and the lowest incomes is growing further. The latter group does not benefit from the reduction of the capital tax and the compensation of the mortgage interest deduction, let alone from the lower corporation tax. The higher VAT does affect them directly. And it has been clear for years that the flexibility of the labour market makes people vulnerable. Shouldn't the parties have found each other on this, for example by making flexible work more unattractive to employers and by significantly strengthening the legal position of flex workers andzzp'ers? It is disappointing that the four parties choose not to fasten and, while calling flex less flex, to leave out guarantees of a pension and insurance for incapacity for work. However, flex workers run the risk of working on a flexible contract for a further year. The Netherlands is already unique in the flexibilisation of the labour market, but if you count the zzp'ers, according to the CPB we are in a very exceptional situation. The WRR advocates a fundamental discussion on new social security for all forms of work, regardless of the form of contract. Does the government see this need? What can we expect from that? The vulnerability of the labour market is also increasing. Look at the reduced sickness benefit and the increased WIA benefit, as well as the possible income reduction of disabled workers and Wajangers. Companies can invest too little in reintegration without penalty, so the labour market is becoming even more exclusive. That's more than a missed opportunity in our well-running economy, because work emancipates and integrates. Within care, we focus on the needs of people and the quality of care, not the structures or organisations. However, the government does not restrict market forces, but creates a ceiling on expenditure in medical and specialist care, mental health care, general care and community care. There's more money going to the nursing homes, but 90% of the people live at home and see his care package deteriorate further. Isn't that a harsh outcome, given that all the previous measures focused on living longer at home? The CPB concludes that lower healthcare expenditure ultimately leads to less care or care of poor quality. That raises the question of whether this cabinet has good and accessible care and is guarded as a public core value. Shouldn't we be looking at quality and accessibility and what they're worth to us? In fact, this question also applies to education. Many measures hinder the access and development of young people who need more time or do not come from an educational environment. There are still thresholds for stacking, particularly those laid down by the institutions, the tuition fees for second studies are high and interest rates on student loans have been increased. This further facilitates segregation within education. Our question is: how is the cabinet going to increase the equality of opportunity in education? The cabinet is proud of its green ambitions, but if you really want to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees, you can't start in 2020. According to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, the agreement achieves only half of the necessary emission reductions. Climate measures do not address the root causes of environmental pollution either. Even the SDE+ grant goes partly to the Lap medium CO storage and not to structural measures such as a higher share of renewable energy. In our view, it is also a missed opportunity that the coalition does not opt for drastic reforms towards sustainable agriculture, biodiversity and more space for nature. What do we see? No sustainable and structural measures to reduce pollution, nitrogen emissions and livestock, but only occasional restructuring of the pig population. Climate policy is just one of the issues on which we need to work together at European and international level. The world is changing rapidly around us, within the EU alone: the Brexit, proposals for reform, new leaders with new vistas in large Member States. The coalition agreement is silent about the strategy of the Netherlands. Are we looking for new allies? Are we committed to further integration or is the cabinet in favour of multiple speeds, with the risk of a division? Juncker also mentions in his proposals the importance of a social pillar as complementary to a European economic and financial policy and to prevent the effects of globalisation on low-skilled workers being passed on. In our view, a social pillar can also strengthen Europe's support, because it offers people a perspective rather than a threat to them. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. We are pleased that the cabinet continues to work for human rights in Europe. For this, the Council of Europe is an indispensable watchdog. That organization is going through financial hard times. Does the government want a strategy to keep the Council of Europe effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u243	I share Mr Strik's view, of course, that there can be quite a few pennies in other European organisations. I believe they can be removed from the EU, but of course there is more. The EU must join the ECHR, but that is not progressing. And the EU could join the European Social Charter, but in the social pillar, which was just agreed in Gothenburg in the presence of the Prime Minister, there is hardly any reference to the European Social Charter which guarantees our fundamental social rights. Should we not just ask the government for more money, for example for the Council of Europe, but also call for the European Union's accession to the ECHR and its accession to the European Social Charter at last? That does not cost money, and that improves the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u244	Yeah, I totally agree. It would be very good if the EU joined the ECHR and the European Social Charter. In this connection, I would like to pass on the question to the cabinet as to how it is going to work to ensure that it is removed and we are getting closer to it. Mr President, the cabinet expects a great deal from EU migration policy and wants to be the frontrunner migration deals itself. However, its implementation often amounts to shifting responsibilities to countries that already receive a lot of refugees. This cabinet increases the expenditure on reception in the region a little bit, but at the expense of helping the people of those countries. Deals also encourage third countries to lock down and avoid responsibilities, with the ultimate risk that refugees will no longer find protection or perhaps even escape their country. How does the government intend to prevent this and to contribute to the Global Compact on Refugees, in which the UN seeks a common responsibility? With 250 extra resettlements, we're not gonna make it. I'd like a response. In the name of the Netherlands, the human rights of migrants elsewhere in Europe are being violated. Last week in Côte d'Ivoire, countries were alarmed about the slavery practices in Libya, while we continue to pay the Libyan Coast Guard to intercept migrants and bring them directly back to hell in Libya. How does the Prime Minister intend to prevent them from being put at risk there? Domestic migration policy is also tough. It subordinates the interests of migrants, well, to what? To electoral interests? No extension of the children's pardon, no solution for bed-bath-bread, but a higher bill to the migrant for his integration. What exactly is the vision behind this? Integrate you do it together? Or is it an achievement that you have to perform on your own before you can fit in? Unpleasant in society does not call for scapegoats, but for a new vision of democracy and the involvement of citizens. That starts with taking people seriously and striving for inclusion. I have just mentioned the uncertainties that many people are suffering from. They do not feel heard and seen by the government. According to Mr Tjeenk Willink, people no longer see a distinction between politics, governance and regulation, partly because politicians show too little on the basis of what values and vision of society political choices are made. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he shares the need for a serious reflection on our democracy and what we can expect from this cabinet in this area. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet must work hard with a narrow majority. But my party, like most opposition parties, is open to cooperation to make good plans even better. I would say: open up the debate with society, with the electorate, through our councils, states and parliaments! That too is a hand-off to voters in this country and to our representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group, too, welcomes this cabinet to this House and looks forward to working with every member of it. Last Wednesday it was exactly 100 years ago that a major constitutional change was accepted in this Chamber, in this place, perhaps the most important. The Pacific of 1917 regulated the introduction of universal suffrage, a fervent desire of the left then, and the equal treatment of special education, a fervent desire of the right then. Behind the government table, right between the two wings, was the partyless Prime Minister, the liberal Cort van der Linden. The President of the Chamber, so your predecessor, Madam President, spoke after the acceptance of 'new foundations' which could 'enhanced the happiness and prosperity of the country and the people'. It still sounded careful. The foundations laid down in that constitutional change at that time are the achievements of today. The full exercise of citizenship by every adult and the encouragement of that right is such an achievement, as is a society in which directions and beliefs are recognised and supported over and over again in order to develop with ideals and values and to work for the public interest. That was the beginning of the Citizen's century. Could there be a story for this cabinet in the commitment to these very achievements? We have our own Cort van der Linden back behind the government table, so let me give it a try today. I do not, of course, refer to the situation in 1917, but to the concerns of this cabinet itself. In everything that goes well and better, the cabinet talks about contradictions and tensions in society, lack of integration, feelings of unease and alienation in its own country. I quoted the coalition agreement. We can all imagine. But it is precisely then that we need to re-establish a strong understanding of civic engagement and of values that help this country further. I understand that's what the Cabinet wants. I would like to hear an analysis from the Prime Minister on this point: how do we read these passages in the coalition agreement? There is a new cabinet behind the table and that could only be achieved by a benevolent attitude of the parties. The election results turned the formation into a puzzle, but it worked again. It is important that the cabinet relies on a simple majority in the Second and First Chambers, although the margins are narrow. It would therefore be a good thing, and I am not the first to say so today, if there is as much agreement on content as possible, even where there is continuity with the previous cabinet. Mrs Barth mentioned a number of examples of this. In this way, the basis for decision-making can be widened. This also fits in with our traditions. This became apparent in 1917 and it was understood in previous periods by fractions in this house. A government agreement of some magnitude has been reached which can serve as a basis for government policy. Much has been recorded and announced. In any case, there is ambition and decisiveness here. This is not going to be a cabinet on its hands. My group appreciates that. There is a lot of work going on, there are new posts and we see, among other things, the return of the Ministry of Agriculture, to our satisfaction with this Deputy Prime Minister. The circumstances under which this cabinet can start the job are more favourable than in 2012. The economy is attracting and there is scope, also thanks to the policy of the previous cabinet, to close gaps that had arisen; to move forward in education, care and security; to address the review of the tax system, the labour market and the pension system. And there are strong intentions for the sustainability of the economy and housing stock, for the energy transition and for achieving the Paris objectives; necessary policies aimed at the future. But there has to be more than injecting money. It is ultimately about what is intended to put the Netherlands back in order, now that it can. Mr. Chairman. I can only mention a few points of general government policy which are of particular interest to us in this respect. I am aware of what, in my group's view, needs to be maintained in our achievements. The cabinet wants to put citizens at the centre and has something normative in mind. Newcomers need to integrate, participate and know how the Netherlands works as a rule of law. In schools, citizenship is given extra weight. There can be room for citizens who want to work for their environment. It is good that this is strongly emphasised. My group is sympathetic to this, but would also like to hear a more coherent story about citizens, democracy and communities. What kind of conversation does the cabinet seek with that citizen and with society? There is another aspect to this discussion. This requires reflection on a remote government, on unattainable points of contact, on the quality of public services, on enforcement and supervision in our country. The Council of State and the Court of Auditors highlighted the quality of implementation organisations, which are faced with staff shortages, ICT problems and the change that has made cuts in organisations. The same applies to supervisory services. I see signs of improvement in the coalition agreement, for example with regard to NVWA or various inspections, but my group lacks the self-reflection of a government which must also establish the connection with the citizen itself. Mr. Chairman. The government must have its own core tasks in order to protect citizens. It should not be the case that, wherever a tile is lightened, major deficits and abuses appear. We need to respond to the disturbing noises about the growth of all kinds of crime, which are too often related to drugs and trafficking in human beings. Security, enforcement and policy enforcement are important. How does the cabinet deal with the conclusions of the Kuijken Committee on National Police? Fortunately, there is now a visible commitment to strengthening parties in the criminal justice chain. But it's also about the culture that we create. Combating drug crime is the fight against symptom if we normalize or trivialise the everyday use of drugs. What are the experiments with weed growing in proportion to the desire to achieve a smoke-free generation? One would almost say: if you have a smoke-free generation, by definition all that other is no longer necessary. Mr. Chairman. Increasingly, resistance to a culture that has come to believe that the free availability of women's bodies is normal. We must recognise that our so-called liberality has brought great misery to women's lives. The lifting of the whorehouse ban has not led to the normalization of prostitution. It is good that this cabinet recognizes and takes steps, including the pimp ban. We are calling for this to be dealt with quickly. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings indicates that the number of victims is much higher than we think and that 35% of the municipalities have no idea whether there is trafficking in human beings and what is happening. How does the cabinet discuss this with the municipalities? Mr. Chairman. After many years of austerity and a modest trend break, we are now investing in defence again. And that's very necessary, because we're moving along the lower limits. This Chamber voted on a motion for a resolution on a 2% increase in expenditure towards the NATO standard, as also agreed with the allies in 2014, with a ten-year horizon of 2024. How are we gonna move up there? The question has been asked before. My group would also like an answer to that question. Mr. Chairman. Can we talk about bildung again? The cabinet talks about promoting values, including in education, and that has our support. Education has a substantial contribution to make to this, including by looking at citizenship formation. There he is again. There must also be incentives for this from the cabinet. Fortunately, 100 years after the Pacific, educational freedom is standing. It is not entirely clear what is meant when it is said that parents' interest can be a basis for new school foundation. I thought that the discussion so far was about supplementing it with a teaching-educational approach. I would like to hear an explanation from my group. As far as higher education is concerned, my group is in favour of a fair distribution of investment across all types of higher education. The abolition of the basic grant was a generic measure and affected all students in higher education. We have regularly supported small studies and the role of the humanities, and we will continue to do so. Invest in that. This also fits in with the attention paid to bildung, to citizenship and to promoting values in society. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the climate and the concern for creation. The cabinet shows a vision for what, as a highly developed country, our contribution to the international climate objectives should be. The strengthening of ambition, and the commitment to achieve it in Europe, has our support. We'll have our hands full with it. We await the actions of the cabinet and call for attention to be paid to the new energy agreement and its role for renewable energy. We will continue to work in this Chamber for the vulnerable in society, for people with disabilities, whatever their role. Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister has, as I understand it, a portrait of Cort van der Linden hanging in the Tower, next to Thorbecke's. It doesn't look like it yet, because then there should soon be a big beard. We're still waiting for that, because he's been mirroring Cort van der Linden for a long time. Maybe it'll come again. Especially in these days, that might be something to do. Indeed, let the Prime Minister work for what was at its core and the significance of the great achievements of Cort van der Linden, culminating in 1917. Let him work for the achievements that have once been fiercely defended and which our country cannot miss: the meaning of contemporary citizenship for all, the meaning of values that our society builds and the meaning of a government that protects citizens and has its affairs in order. Now's the chance. The circumstances are favorable to do so. We hope that we will see much of the Prime Minister in the necessary debates on this issue. Mr. Chairman. As a group, we will relate positively to the cabinet that has arisen. We wish you God's blessing in your important task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u247	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman. Oh, Mr. Kuiper, will you come back? Mrs. Strik has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u248	I congratulate Mr Kuiper once again on his participation in the cabinet. You've done a lot. I also know that there were a number of very sensitive issues, which the Christian Union has also done its best but which have not succeeded, including the children's pardon. Here, but also in the Lower House, the Christian Union has always made itself very hard for it. It is only a small group of children who are now being deported. Can Mr Kuiper say something about the balance that has been made? How does Mr Kuiper feel about this himself? Does he think it's worth giving up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u249	I would like to thank Mrs Strik for the congratulations, but I would like to address them to the cabinet. That's where the club is formed. Such a coalition agreement is, of course, a package of things. It's been discussed. I wasn't involved. In the end, this resulted in the passage in the government agreement that the arrangement of the children's pardon will not be changed. But there is an arrangement and that arrangement remains. You might think that these criteria should be applied more widely. That was indeed the line of my party. But I am now dealing with a government agreement which states that the children's pardon regime remains as it is today. In any case, it is very important that we have uniform rules. With regard to asylum policy as a whole, it is extremely important that there are rules, that everyone knows exactly where they stand and that these rules are applied. My party can agree that the criteria should have been applied more widely, but there is an arrangement, which everyone says is basically good, with those five years at eighteen years, etc., whereby residence can lead to a permit. It's what it is. There's an arrangement. This is the decision of the parties that formed the government, and I have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u250	Mr Kuiper says that there is an arrangement. For four years in the Lower House, his party opposed the strict criteria of that regulation, which were far stricter than originally intended. That has not changed at all. Mr Kuiper says that we should do it, but his party was, of course, part of those negotiations and finally turned it in. That is what my question was about. How did this work? Is that a matter of getting something completely different and sacrificing the rights and interests of those children? How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u251	Your observations are justified and correct. That's how it happened. I wasn't involved in the negotiations. I'm in a different responsibility here, too. You have heard how my party has reacted to this. In the end, we said yes to the coalition agreement, at least the group in the House of Representatives did so. That's why we're gonna have to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u252	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u253	It seems very painful to me, but I hope that the group, here and on the other side, will continue to work for a little more humanisation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u254	We will certainly continue to work for these children; you can count on them. There's an arrangement that works. There's not gonna be a change in the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u255	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u256	Thank you, Mr President. "The government is a villain with a high hat." That is a statement by Albert Winsemius, which is repeated regularly by his son Pieter. Whether it concerns noise pollution at Schiphol or Lelystad, gas drilling in Groningen, illegal manure surpluses, poison discharged on surface water by DuPont in Sliedrecht or 75 people who died of Q fever: the government continues to nod and smile nicely, but the solution of identified problems lies ahead. Appointments are being trampled on by the government. Standards appear to be difficult to enforce in many areas. This cannot be otherwise in the Netherlands coalition country, is a widely heard view. How do you want to solve the manure problem when lots like the CDA and D66 sit at one table? Why don't we ask the sector to take care of it one more time? In any case, we can gain time in drawing up the plan of approach, implementing the plan of approach and evaluating the plan of approach. With a little good will, you'll just be a cabinet period away. An example. Since 2012 there has been work on a covenant unsedated ritual slaughter. At first, it turned out it couldn't come to fruition. Then it turns out it doesn't work. Now, five years on, there is no idea of an acceptable solution according to the NVWA and the KNMvD. Politics is hiding behind the idea that the sector must first solve the problems itself before political action is taken. The problem with manure has not changed. In 2006, right after his term of office, Cees Veerman said, "We import feed, we export pigs and we keep the mess here. That system is completely jammed." Old executives Brinkhorst, D66, and Bleker, CDA, said a few weeks ago, as a result of the massive manure fraud, to tackle this fraud. But the incumbent minister preferred to speak of "forgiveness," which can only be interpreted as a postponement of execution. Manure fraudsters have already presented themselves to write the plan of action requested by the Minister. This raises more questions than the cabinet can and will answer, but perhaps the Prime Minister can reflect on them. Mr. Chairman. Parties with very different backgrounds need to agree on a coalition agreement. The fact that it took 211 days this time gives an indication of the stretching and pulling that has been necessary to reach the agreement. The group chairman of the smallest government even spoke of the feeling of having had to swallow a whole melon. A huge task, of which you might wonder what purpose is served by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u257	It was a bit quick, but Mr Koffeman indicated that an organisation that would have participated in it had offered to solve a fraud problem. Has that been accepted by the Cabinet as far as you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u258	No, I don't know if that's accepted at all. I know, however, that in the area of manure fraud, a recidivist has offered to write a plan of action to the parties asked by the Minister to write that plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u259	I think it is good that this information is known to those who are behind me. I assume that will not result in that party actually being allowed to write along.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u260	That would be thought, but in the past that has turned out differently. In that sense, it is also waiting this time. Mr. Chairman. Five years ago Pieter Winsemius presented the report Trust in Citizens, for the Scientific Council for Government Policy. It became clear that the government advisory bodies felt ignored by the cabinet for a long time. Recently, the Planning Office for the Environment showed this once again by passing on the coalition agreement. I quote: "The introduction of many measures will require too much lead time to have an impact by 2020.' The confidence in the future that the cabinet has chosen as the motto seems to have been made mainly dependent by the cabinet on the strength of its successors. The self-appointed greenest cabinet has not yet reached half of the agreed climate targets. After the longest formation ever, the cabinet has been left for less than three and a half years to fulfil its policy intentions. It would be logical to go straight to the team, but apparently there are a number of major objections to this. The cabinet relies not only on the future, but also on a narrow majority of 38 seats in this house and 76 on the other side. Such a shaky majority is difficult to bear with the harsh interventions that are needed. The cabinet promises a tax on airline tickets, but only in 2021, after the cabinet itself has left. The cabinet promises the closure of five coal power stations, but only after 2023 will the timetable be determined, and not during this period of government. Rutte II's target of reducing CO by 25% by 2020 is not achieved but abandoned. Mr. Chairman. The Planning Office for the Environment indicated that much more is needed than that, a shrinkage of livestock and a reduction in the consumption of meat and dairy, for example. Can the Prime Minister indicate what led the cabinet to choose the irrefutable path of CO storage over the real solutions? In his Pamphlet of an optimist, Mr Rutte pointed out in 2008 that he saw the climate problem as one of the biggest problems of our time and that he would look for green-right solutions to that problem. There has been little progress in three Cabinets to solve the biggest problem of our time. In 2009, Mr Rutte said that he had great difficulty with the bio-industry, with the stacking of pigs, but when he finally had the opportunity to do something about it in the Tower, nothing was heard about it. Can the Prime Minister look back on that without laughing it off? The problem is serious enough. In recent years, the number of cows in the Netherlands increased so explosive that the amount of manure produced went through the agreed ceiling. 160,000 healthy cows were sacrificed on the altar of the economy, with slaughter subsidies of EUR 25 million. When it became apparent that 80 billion kilos of manure were largely processed illegally and fraudulently, the Minister invited the sector to come up with a plan of action itself and to solve the problems. The same approach was adopted by the cabinet in 2014, but it did not work at the time. Why this repetition of moves? I'd like a response. Last weekend, Het Financieele Dagblad had an interesting analysis of the silent administrative revolution that is taking place at the moment. The cabinet puts the polder model in the highest gear. In the coming years, dozens of agreements, deals and agreements will be concluded on the most diverse social issues. Het Financieele Dagblad wonders whether there is administrative innovation or political poverty because they cannot get out in The Hague themselves. State law professor Douwe Jan Elzinga speaks of a serious problem, because democratic control is becoming increasingly out of the picture. There will be a manure agreement, an energy agreement, a climate agreement, a sports and prevention agreement, an agreement on the reception of displaced asylum seekers, two administrative agreements, a digital agreement after the referendum on the drag law and a handful of deals with cities and regions. One agreement is even more difficult to control democratically than the other. Many chords serve a good purpose, but the chaos and lack of order in the public domain are now becoming very big. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether the cabinet recognizes that view. The director of the VVD's scientific office also recognizes the problem of a corporate governance model, with a lot of power for interest groups and little democratic control. Parties forced to reach an agreement in the absence of political agreement and relying on the smallest possible majority seem to feel compelled to resort to such emergency measures. Piet Hein Donner, Vice-President of the Council of State, also points out that too many agreements are at the expense of democratic control and openness of administration. It's impossible to maintain agreements. The States-General is equipped to make, judge and sanction laws. That doesn't apply to chords. Add to that the fact that more decision-making is taking place in Brussels, with very limited Dutch influence, and it is clear that the public administration, in particular the democratic control we knew, is subject to severe erosion. That feeds the distrust of the citizen in politics. If the same policy is to deprive the citizen of the possibility of a consultative referendum and even of being referendable to that decision, against the explicit opinion of the Council of State, with the participation of the D66 referendum party, then we should not be surprised if the citizen is getting more and more shocked about politics and the usefulness of going to the ballot box. Mr President, we are living in an era of great change, including in the administrative sense. Last Saturday, D66 coryfee Jan Terlouw complained about the fact that the manifesto he wrote with the presidents of all political youth organisations, from the SGP to the SP, in order to solve a number of major social problems, was taken over by only one party: the Party for Animals. A government that has to do it with such a small majority should realize: whoever does not honor the little one has quickly ruled out. What the Party asks for for the Animals costs little and pays a lot. And that's worth considering! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u261	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u262	Madam President. Once I cycled home from church on a Sunday. Next to me my daughter drove, she was only 6 years old and wanted to ride her own bike. But she was tired, so I pushed her. At some point I looked at her and saw that she was keeping her eyes closed, and that took quite a long time. So I said, "Hey, you're driving with your eyes closed." "Yes, Daddy, I'm tired." "But aren't you afraid you're gonna run into something?" "No, Daddy, because you're holding me, aren't you?" Madam President, that is trust. Childish, rock solid trust! Did I promise her I wouldn't let her drive into a lamppost? No, it was... I say it with gratitude... unconditional trust. It takes time. That's what relationships are for. This is true in the family situation, the smallest cell in our society, but so is the government of our country. Here is a new government, under the motto: Trust in the future! How can we give that confidence to this government? Now, Mr President, that confidence will have to grow, that this government will have to earn. This seems very difficult with a special coalition of four parties, of which the Prime Minister is running away even now. But it has occurred more often in land policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u263	He's not really gone, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u264	I know, Madam President, and I also know that he can listen in two ways. Oh, he's back. I was just about to say to the Prime Minister that it is not so strange at all to have a coalition of four parties and that it has happened more often. Besides, you could run into it right now in my own hometown of Veenendaal. There is a coalition of five parties, and pay attention to VVD, CDA, D66, ChristianUnion, and as a fifth... the SGP! That fifth, that extra, is missing the current coalition. So my group has wondered what could have been better in case the SGP was part of the coalition. What further attention would have been required? I focus on three themes: the State, the Money and the Principles, SGP. I would like to mention a few issues that have not been mentioned so far. I'll start with the state. The Netherlands must be safer. It's wonderful that this cabinet pays extra money both for the police and for the Defense Department. But is this enough? Does this cabinet opt for the NATO standard or only for the EU standard? What happens if it goes more economically well? Will more money go to the DOD? And as far as the police are concerned, is the extra money being distributed in such a way that the region, the countryside, is also better dealt with by agents? How do we get the new police organization in order? That's what it takes to restore trust. The same applies to asylum and migration. Both in the countries around us and in the Netherlands, citizens want to feel at home in their own country and know where they stand. Of course, we do not want political Islam in the Netherlands. And on the other hand, we don't let anyone fleeing in agony for his life stand in the cold. That is why the SGP has always advocated a fair and merciful policy. Now this government has set a tighter line. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether this tighter line does justice to the values of justice and mercy? Is that sufficient to regain citizens' confidence in this area? Money is the second focus. The government has ambitious plans. The tax system is turning upside down, at least as it seems. My party has long argued in favour of a social flat tax, so that a fairer system of taxation can be achieved. Now it seems that the government wants to move in that direction with a two-disc system. But if all the bonuses and schemes continue to exist, then there is only a slight shift, but no fairer burden-sharing. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this does not lead to the intended flat tax but merely to a redeployment of income tax? Of course, I am also asking this question in the light of what my group has been putting in its throat for a very long time, namely the unequal treatment of a single earner. And certainly, my group sees that there has been a strong negotiation, which means that the growth of purchasing power of one earner is no lower than that of two earners. That's profit. Compliments for that. But you know that in 2015 the SGP showed that a earner had to pay up to five times more tax. In 2016 that deteriorated to six times as much. Fortunately, I do not have to say today that it has reached seven times that, but I do not see any reduction in the gap either. In fact, this means that the motion adopted in this Chamber has still not been implemented. Can the Prime Minister confirm that the purchasing power of a earner is now treated equally, but that the gap in the tax burden has not been restored? This is not a point of the SGP alone; it is well known that the motion in question has broad support in this Chamber. Moreover, after a call from the SGP group in the Lower House, more than 700 letters were received. The Treasury has already received those letters. I've only taken them now. Because they had to be wrapped up in something, I only packed what was available, otherwise someone would think it was a gift. But it's just to take it here for a while. This set is yours, Prime Minister. 720 letters from people who indicate that there is a problem with a single earner. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he can promise that a renewed attempt is being made to tackle the unfair tax burden on a earner. The third aspect I want to talk about is the Principles. In addition, I deal with a few ethical issues. I approach them mainly from the biblical values and standards. This is also an immediate response to Mrs Faber's speech, who did not want to respond to the question of what should happen in order to create more confidence and what content should come. I think those biblical values and norms can help us. Think of a subject like Sunday rest. What is the government's juice appreciation on the latest development that in Groningen no coercive fines should be imposed on shopkeepers who do not open their shop on Sundays? Another important principle is the protection of the life given by God. My group is shocked by the attitude of the NVVE and the Life-End Clinic around a powder that causes death within twenty minutes. With horror I have learned of a competition to arrive at the best life-ending machines; I find it too horrible for words. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to these excesses and, with the new cabinet, to strongly distance himself from these matters. I'd like to make the same plea for the beginning of my life. In this respect, it is very nice that these days the General Political Reviews are held, in the middle of the Week of Life. But even today, 100 more beginning lives have knowingly ended, 100 a day. And today 30 mothers have had abortions for the second, third or fourth time. After all, according to reports from the Health Inspectorate, 30% has been repeated. How does the Prime Minister assess this fact, that 30% comes for repeated termination of pregnancy? Can he tell us what caused it? Madam President. These are many questions, but my group would also like to express its appreciation for matters which strengthen confidence. The positive focus on the freedom of education is such a point. And I thank the Prime Minister for the way in which he shaped last year's commitment to remember Article 23 of the Constitution. Of course, the SGP is positive that the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality has been restored. Our farmers deserve that! My group is also content with the approach to jihadism, with the strong measures against hate-sowing, with the efforts to protect people from prostitution and trafficking in human beings. And the SGP will closely monitor how ethical issues are approached from a general review framework. Madam President, I'm closing. Now it's time. Trust in the future. That's what the SGP has. Not because there is a government with a coalition agreement, but because God rules. I recently read with the famous preacher Spurgeon: "Whatever is happening in tumult and rebellion under the clouds, the eternal King thrones above all in supreme rest." That gives you confidence! Let's get back to the story about my little girl. She kicked along, with her eyes closed. Let that be the attitude of government and parliament: hard at work, regularly closed. Praying for blessings for our country, for our parliament, for this government. Pray and work. That gives "confidence in the future." Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u265	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u266	Can I hand over these letters myself or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u267	If you'll just make it quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u268	I'm gonna do that real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u269	Let's get this over with. Yes, you do. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u270	Long wait came: 50PLUS also congratulates the new cabinet on its birth. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS begins these reflections positively and with a compliment. The Rutte cabinet creates additional jobs. Especially for one's own politicians. The first Rutte cabinet consisted of twelve ministers, the second of thirteen. And now there is a cabinet in which that number has been increased to 16. Not because there are new social developments that make this enlargement necessary, but because you need four parties and so you do not have to look at a few ministers more or less. This fact has a greater meaning than it seems at first sight. To all the extra ministers there are major additional costs and disadvantages. Not only the car with driver and the extra staff, but also the many additional consultations that arise when the number of ministers grows impetuously. The debate on this issue has been held many times in the past and the well-founded pleas for a drastic reduction in the number of ministers have been held many times. Fifteen years ago, Pim Fortuyn advocated political renewal and a small nuclear cabinet. In 2007, the then PvdA leader Wouter Bos was in favour of a nuclear cabinet of only six ministers. The negotiators of the then forming parties CDA and ChristianUnion did not want to go that far, although they also admitted that too many ministers "would lead to cooking and poaching in policy." In June 2010, the Public Administration Council recommended that a maximum of nine ministers be appointed so that, as President Jacques Wallage put it, ministers would have their hands free for the broad political lines. De Volkskrant reported on 7 July 2010 that D66 wanted a cabinet of eight ministers. At the end of the day, it became thirteen, and now every innovative thinking has been abandoned, its previous valid arguments forgotten, and for political reasons we have reached sixteen again. A development that deeply regrets 50PLUS. A second remarkable fact is that the current coalition has deliberately chosen only one vote majority in both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u271	That was a nice list of Mr Nagel, and he undoubtedly has the right quotes at hand. But he forgets that in almost all of these proposals there was also a proposal to increase the number of State Secretaryes, to make sure that they were mainly going to do the current business. So if you combine that with each other, you might come up with roughly the same numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u272	What was involved, as I said, is the political renewal, a nuclear cabinet, that idea, reducing the number of ministers. I understand that you'll have more State Secretarys. It was about this innovation and a story that it was even worse 44 years ago, I actually find a bit below the mark. A second remarkable fact is that the current coalition has deliberately chosen only one vote majority in both Chambers. Remarkable because in March 2019, so in a good fifteen months' time, the elections for the Provincial States are not to be avoided and the new composition of the First Chamber becomes practically known. According to the current opinion polls, the government coalition is likely to lose significantly and become a minority in the Senate, and that will in practice have been a shadow for a long time. Especially if the voters give a firm preliminaries in the municipal elections in three months' time. Prime Minister Rutte has indicated that he can use support from other parties. That is why we have the question here: what do the Prime Minister and his cabinet have to offer the elderly and 50PLUS? Is it possible to postpone the abolition of the Hills Act? Can we talk about purchasing power repair for the elderly and pensioners? Can we talk about measures that will make it possible for pensions to finally be indexed again? It appears that the very rapid increase in the age of AOW is not accepted and is often considered inhuman. Think of the heavy professions. Does the Prime Minister have anything on offer at this point? 50PLUS asks the Prime Minister to give a clear answer to this and not to run away with meaningless comments. It cannot be true that, on the one hand, an appeal is made to opposition parties to join and, on the other hand, there is no willingness to oppose it. In the short speaking time allocated to 50PLUS in the House of Representatives, I would like to make a few points. The pension system. The government agreement states that the government, together with social partners, intends to take the step towards a renewed pension system. But when, at the beginning of September, consultation between the social partners snapped and no polder agreement was reached, an atmosphere of open distrust arose. How does the cabinet feel that this mistrust, especially in the trade union movement, can be removed? Of course, 50PLUS also wants to give every new minister a 100% chance, but the fact that in these circumstances, for the first time in parliamentary history, a member of D66 fills the ministers post on Social Affairs makes sense as if a convinced and basically total abstainer had become director of a beer brewery. The purchasing power of the elderly. It is the group that is hit again and again. While the economy and employment are developing positively, they are taking measures such as the VAT increase at the lowest rate from 6% to 9%, the write-off by abolishing the Hills Act, the almost weekly higher energy costs, the rising care premium, rent increases and so on. The Nibud has calculated that AOW's with a supplementary pension higher than €10,000 in 2018 will decrease by 1.5%. And that while pensions have not been indexed for years. As many as 16.5% of pensions have been left behind by ABP since 2009. In the coming years, too, there is no indexing and the possibility of new discounts is openly mentioned within two to three years. If not, how is it going to fight these injustices? The AOW age. Outside the circle of the current coalition parties, there is hardly anyone who can justify the rapid rise in the AOW age. Even from employers' circles is heavy criticism, which is shared by the trade union movement and a large majority of the Dutch. But these noises from society are not being listened to by the coalition parties, while those same parties have voiced concern about the distrust among the voters, about the widening gap between the Hague and the citizens and the growing fragmentation in elections. The voters do not see any response from these parties to the really big problems. The unfairness is increased by the fact that lower educated people and the lower income group have started working at a younger age, have paid more years of AOW contributions and at a later age use them less because of poor health and a shorter life. The Metal Pension Fund (PMT) notes a doubling of the number of new disabled persons since the retirement age increases from 65 to 67 years. That is why the question is: why is this cabinet not hearing these social noises, why is the cabinet deaf to this? What vision does it have? And then the referendum. More than 50 years ago, a new party was set up, which wanted the political system to explode, because in The Hague they don't know what's going on among the voters. Was signed: D66. A government coalition with this former renewal party, which once wanted a radical democratisation of Dutch society, is now going to destroy the consultative referendum. Don't see if this law can be improved, no: abolish it. Last week, the article by Joost de Vries in de Volkskrant, which announced that the cabinet would deal with the bill last Friday, showed that it is true. Mr De Graaf was still playing the murdered innocence here this evening, but there has been a report in the media for several hours, especially in the NRC, that the cabinet has submitted a bill to the Council of State through an urgent procedure, without us as a Chamber having been informed of this in advance. Has this bill been submitted to the Council of State through an urgent procedure? In our view, that is sneaky and contemptuous for the parties who are holding the general reflections here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u273	Could Mr. Nagel explain what he means by me playing the murdered innocence? What did I do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u274	You give me the impression that you did not know at all whether the cabinet was working on the bill to withdraw the consultative referendum and even less that you suspected that it would be impossible to make that decision referendable. I really think that something needs to be democratised in your party and better communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u275	No, no, I'd like to get back to the fact that you think I'm playing the murdered innocence. That means you blame me for withholding information...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u276	No, I don't blame you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u277	Gentlemen, gentlemen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u278	Then, Madam President, that Mr. Right of you, past the Registrar, should not use that kind of terms either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u279	I mean by "murdered innocence" that Mr. De Graaf is innocent. He doesn't know. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u280	Mr. de Graaf, you are innocent, but you are...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u281	I am surprised every day at Mr Nagel's creativity, let me put it this way. I think that Mr Nagel should also observe the procedures. This room hasn't seen the law yet. I didn't see any law, and you didn't see any bill. In fact, the House of Representatives has not even seen that, because it is now with the Council of State, if I may understand the newspaper reports. That's the way it's supposed to be. This means that we can talk about it at an appropriate time. It is very strange to blame the cabinet for not having reported this to you before the proposal went to the Council of State. It is also extremely strange to blame me for not knowing that and actually having all the information I do not share with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u282	What matters to me is that we have general reviews here today. The government agreement states that the consultative referendum will be withdrawn and cancelled. We want confirmation of this and it appears that the matter has already been referred to the Council of State by means of an urgent procedure and that there is also no desire to make the legislation on withdrawal referable. We could have been informed about this today. They knew this was what they were going to do. They've done it, too. We now need to hear it from the media as a chamber. I think that's below the mark, and I'm surprised at that. I also do not understand why the political leader of D66 in the First Chamber is not aware of this. Mr President, I will conclude. I'm asking the Cabinet to confirm the case as I just painted. It is true that the Council of State has confirmed once again to Mr De Graaf, not a long time ago but very recently, that the repeal law is indeed referendable. Only with some kind of trick one can try to make that legally impossible, to put it in plain Dutch. I think that is a sneaky and serious matter which we as democrats must strongly oppose. I call on Mr De Graaf to make it clear in the second instance what he thinks of this urgent procedure, because perhaps they want to do it before 15; then there is also a referendum. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u283	Thank you, Mr Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u284	Mr. Chairman. I'm the last one. When I'm done, you can suspend the meeting until tomorrow morning. The Tuesday afternoons of the last few weeks gave me a pleasant feeling, not so much because there have been not so many major issues lately, but mainly because we were given the opportunity to have first contact with the various new ministers and secretaries of state in introductory talks. These conversations are very pleasant and give a nice first impression of the persons of the rulers and their ideas. The fact that four parties were certainly not in a position to form a government, even though it took a very long time, and in fact the tone and content of the coalition agreement were quite positive to me. I will not always agree with the government's proposals which will undoubtedly come to us in the near future, but I am pleased that it is precisely this mesmerized government that intends to tackle major issues: the labour market, pensions, the climate, Europe, at last, which is really positive, and also some taxation. There are still some bones in there that can be chewed. On many points, the concreteisation still needs to be followed, but I would like the government to have time to live up to its ambitions. There is still a clear perspective not on all fronts. We are shocked by the large-scale manure fraud in Brabant and North Limburg. And the land-based farmers, who are not doing anything about the problem of manure, are also alarmed by the fact that after the court ruling on this matter, they will have to pay their share in the reduction of livestock this year and have to expect fines. Our policy continues to focus on complicated regulation in order to control the side effects of a more industrial than purely agricultural mode of production. The public authorities cannot change the existing relationships from one moment to the next, but what seems serious to me is that there is still no clear prospect of a development towards a desirable future sector, promoted by the public authorities, which is appropriate for climate and environmental policy, which does not entail any major harmful and therefore regulatory effects. Why does the government, and this also applies to most provinces, not dare to make clear choices? The fact that the Netherlands voted last week, with Germany, but unlike, for example, Belgium and France, for the authorisation of arthropods for another five years, underlines this. How does the government intend to combat the environmental consequences of such a decision? By the way, as a casual remark in between: where manure fraud is mainly involved, there is also the production of drugs, partly also a kind of agriculture, but to a large extent chemistry. Areas where both forms of crime are flourishing and where aid appears to exist for both industries from civil society, the upper and lower worlds are mixed up. It might be good to see these developments as one complex and as an indication of the drifting away of part of our society, probably in more places, but in particular there. I think it would be wise for the government to try to see whether legalisation of hemp cultivation can help to uncriminalise drug production, but that does not solve the whole problem of course. For the time being, we remain a country with an impossible problem of manure and a large-scale drug-producing, exporting and exporting country, a narcostate. How does the government see that? A question on a completely different field. There are a number of legislative proposals in the Lower House which relate to municipal reclassifications and which seriously raise the question of whether the government remains of the view that for reclassifications there should be support in the municipalities. The phrase in the government agreement on this matter does not really provide a conclusive answer: "It is then".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is there an opening here in order, if necessary, to continue a reclassification against the meaning of a municipality without even any support? If that were the case, how bad should it be with the dependence of the municipality in question? An additional question: will a province also be allowed, despite any incorrect provision of information regarding the financial situation, the administrative power or the willingness to reorganise a municipality, to get a reclassification proposal into the Chamber? As far as municipalities are concerned, I have missed a passage in the government agreement about shifting tax opportunities from the Empire to the province and municipality. I felt that there was broad consensus on the observation that local and provincial tax capacities are exceptionally limited in international comparison, that this limits the own priority of provinces and municipalities and that this should therefore be done something about it. Is the government still working on that? Then the Kingdom. I will not discuss the situation in Saint Martin, but I do believe that reconstruction aid should start as soon as possible. In fact, I do not understand why it had to take so long when it had become clear much earlier that the States had dropped their government and agreed to the demands made by the Netherlands. Would it not have been better if we had shown that it was more serious with our willingness to help than with the desire to first obtain all the legitimate and convincing evidence that our desires will be met? Moreover, I have the impression that the Secretary of State for Kingdom Affairs is genuinely trying to create good relations. That's the way it should be in the Kingdom. However, there is one other point that should be a little more attention to. Aruba does not yet meet the requirements we make to obtain low-interest loans from the Netherlands. But the island is now subject to financial supervision, deficits have been greatly reduced and this is also a clear priority for the forthcoming government. If Aruba could borrow from the Netherlands, it would already have a surplus on the budget. And it doesn't cost the Netherlands anything, because we can borrow almost for free. Why doesn't the Minister of Finance put an end to this ludicrous money? Finally, a delicate subject, Catalonia. When in 1830 Brussels rebelled against King Willem I a strong nationalistic feeling arose in the north against "the mutiny rot of the Belgians" and to participate in the Ten-day Campaign there was plenty of enthusiasm. Of course, similar nationalism has also taken hold of Madrid, where the Partido Popular has been working for ten years to defuse an already agreed autonomy agreement with Catalonia. If Catalonia forbids bullfighting, autonomy is not large enough to do so. And the Catalan people are not allowed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u285	Will you watch your time, Mr. Ten Hoeve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u286	Yes, I'm almost ready, Mr. Chairman. Nor should the Catalan people call themselves a nation, because that is not enough for the one Spanish nation. And holding a referendum on the desire for complete independence, fuelled by this Spanish nationalism, must not, of course, be allowed either. Of course, after a referendum which has been held but has been chaotic, it is not wise to actually declare independence. And of course, Europe, and certainly the Netherlands, has an interest in maintaining that Spain is a real democracy where no one is oppressed. But I'd still...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u287	Mr. Ten Hoeve, you've been over your time for 40 minutes. 40 seconds, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u288	Can I ask the government one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u289	No, no, no. Mr. Ten Hoeve, listen to me. You're shutting down now. You'll have two minutes before the second term tomorrow. But if you carry on now, you won't get a second term tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u290	I'll have less time tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u291	No, no time! You're over your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u292	Excellent. Then I'm gonna ask the government my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u293	But then you don't have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u294	That is clear to me, Mr President. I would like to know from the government whether it considers it to be in line with the spirit of the democratic rule of law that elected members of parliament and government who are long trying to enter into negotiations with the central government, but who, if everything turns out to be fruitless, ultimately do what their voters expect from them, are imprisoned and charged for crimes of up to 30 years' imprisonment. And I would also like to hear whether the government believes that a choice of independence, which is not really obvious at all, should be made by the Catalan people or should be made by the Spanish people in total, in which Catalonia is always a minority. What is democracy now? Or should that choice never be made at all, because the Spanish Constitution is not designed to do so? It's a difficult subject to end with, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry it took too long, but I'd like to wait for a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-04-eerstekamer-3.u295	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. Again, you have no second term tomorrow. I will not ask anyone else to speak in the first term; I am not going to ask.
