ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	We have completed the first deadline for the debate on the Tax Administration. We will continue with the second term, because the Secretary of State was done with his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr Omtzigt, do you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	We had asked if the Secretary of State might be willing to respond to the document.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Could that be a short reaction? I do not want to have another whole debate, but if there is a need for it, I will hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	There were still four things from the first term and I had programmed them for the second term. But I also had some time. I have a response, as requested. We have the question about Mr Van Dijck's data security with the print screen. We have Mrs. De Vries' privacy officer. And we have the stone in Mr Van Weyenberg's stomach. Are those things that take themselves for a...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	These are points that you would raise in the second term. I would like to see you give the response you have promised. We'll do the rest in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	Okay, Mr. Chairman. A new document. I have just confirmed that I have indeed received signals that signals would have been given. There may also be such a thing in this document. I don't know. As far as I'm concerned, the fact that there's another new piece proves that we need to have the stuff complete before we can have a meaningful conversation about it. This shows exactly that we obviously need to work on getting things complete. My main question remains: has leaked. In the wake of this, warnings are important, but it is not certain that leaks have occurred. We also have nothing to do with warnings. They are relevant when we have established that something would have leaked and that is not yet certain. It seems that we are now asking ourselves who was warned of something that we do not know has happened. My point is that this proves once again that I must take careful care of that investigation. Then we'll know if there's been a leak. If that is the case, we also know if there has been any warning. Then we also know what has been done with these warnings, because that is also relevant. Now the snippets of paper are flying through the room. We are obviously not getting everything on the table right now, and before I answer the Chamber, I want everything on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	This was your reaction to the play?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	I give the opportunity to ask a question, otherwise the debate will be given a new dynamic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I have a quick question. The Secretary of State says that the question of whether there have been warnings is not relevant until information has been leaked. I can hardly imagine that he means that, because that warning against the existence of a leak is, of course, relevant, regardless of whether that leak has leaked in practice, because it must be in order. So I can hardly imagine that the Secretary of State thinks that this is linked to each other. I don't think they're relevant to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	I will go a long way with Mr Grashoff when he says that these warnings are relevant as soon as it becomes clear that there was a real risk of a leak at the time, even if there was no leak. For me, this is not certain at all. Imagine if there was no risk of a leak and someone comes up with something that could be called a warning, then it is not necessarily relevant. I did not go through the piece, but in my opinion it is not certain at all that it is a warning. Let us take a serious look at this. I agree with Mr Grashoff's jargon: if there was a serious and unauthorized risk of a leak when it did not leak, warnings are relevant. However, warnings are not relevant if nothing turns out to be wrong. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. This is an unsatisfactory debate after a serious allegation a week ago. We still do not know whether there is any log data to allow people to access the tax data of 12 million Dutch people, and whether an audit has ever been carried out. That remains to be figured out. Normally, you expect those audits to be in a pile. Last year it was already promised that a new whistleblower arrangement would be in place. At that time we were faced with the same problem, namely that it went through the media. That is annoying because it leads to debates in Parliament, but it does not lead to an efficient solution of problems. I therefore repeat the question as to why no new person of confidence was appointed or a new way of working was chosen so that people could report such problems. The Joustra Committee has not done any cultural research, but it has to be done, because the allegations are shocking. The investigation must, of course, be external and not internal by the Tax Administration. If there was a possible leak and there were warnings, then there may even be criminal offences. You don't do that with an internal investigation. Hence my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the allegations of data security and the lack thereof are extremely serious as they concern the tax data and other personal data of all the Dutch;]] [[noting that 18 people could download USB drives with tax data for a long time;]] [[considers that it is not appropriate for the Tax Administration itself to conduct the investigation;]] [[Calls on the Government to conduct an external and independent investigation into data security at the Tax Office and specifically at the Broodkamer/Data & Analytics from 2013, and to consider at least the following aspects in that investigation:]] [[logging over the entire period;]] [[monitoring and audits of the logging of data and data downloading;]] [[warnings on privacy, logging and authorisation and the follow-up given to them;]] [[whether it was possible for data to be taken or downloaded and whether it is still traceable;]] [[invites the Government to present this report to the Chamber at least two weeks before the summer recess, including an appreciation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. The big question after today is of course: is there a USB stick, a CD or a file somewhere in the Netherlands with all the tax data of 11 million Dutch and 2 million companies? That's the big question. We don't know. The Secretary of State has had signals that there are signals, but he doesn't know about them, but it's worth trying to figure out what those signals might have been that he had signals about. All this time, the data breach is hanging over the market. The Secretary of State will step over it lightly and see signals everywhere, but he doesn't see them or he doesn't want to see them. The departure plan, the RVU fine, the privacy, the Secretary of State is just hopping on. ZEMBLA now has a USB stick with hundreds of documents from the IRS, I just read. Employees declare under oath that tax data is not adequately protected for three years. Externals had uncontrolled access to all tax data for three years and nothing was logged and nothing monitored. This should be the top priority of this Secretary of State. Finally, a question that remained in the first period. Yesterday, the news came out that 70% less book surveys are being carried out than 20 years ago and that inspectors would run away massively because they call it irresponsible and naive. Is this true? The Secretary of State refers to another AO but also this signal that we received yesterday is worth investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. One of the employees of the Tax Administration declares under oath in the broadcast of ZEMBLA: I know that the management of the Tax Administration has already been told in mid-2015 that data security was completely flawed and that the law was broken, but at that time nothing has been done with those signals. We then have a debate here with the Secretary of State on these signals and on this document, and he is only talking about having received signals about these signals. If I were to hear something like this and be Secretary of State, I would first of all like to know exactly what was discussed and done in 2015. Then the piece comes out only now, not through the state secretary who hasn't investigated it again, but again through the media. Hasn't the Secretary of State seen this piece until now? Can he confirm that he didn't see it and didn't ask about it? Then the follow-up question is: why didn't he ask about it? Why didn't he want to know about the play? This seems crucial to me. It concerns data from millions of Dutch and companies, privacy-sensitive information but also business-sensitive information. Then you can't just let that go. What I am wondering is whether it is true that the Secretary of State did not take action on the tender and the investigation until ZEMBLA's investigative journalists asked for it. If I understand correctly, ZEMBLA's investigative journalists asked the Secretary of State and his department if there was anything going on with that tender and then the Secretary of State started an investigation and reported to the investigative journalists: we are conducting an investigation. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. So far, a lot of questions have been left open. The Secretary of State admits that, by the way. That is why it is good that extensive research is being carried out on whether security was in order and whether at some point something really went wrong and data ended up in places where they don't belong. It'll take time. I understand that, too. I do have a positive feeling about the motion that has just been tabled in order to give maximum independence to the investigation. I have asked for two specific points. The first, on which the Secretary of State will return in second term, is the work visit and putting pressure on it. I'll wait and see. As far as I am concerned, that should not last a day longer in the air than is necessary. The second point concerns the question of what the management of the Tax Administration and the Secretary of State knew about the warnings. The Secretary of State said he didn't want to know. I would like to know that in the form of a fact-finding report. I also want to know faster than the Secretary of State. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Finance has received signals about internal warnings on security risks within the Tax Administration;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State does not wish to inform the Chamber of these signals until the half-yearly report in April 2017;]] [[Whereas the Court wishes to have a more rapid understanding of the warnings on security risks and how they have been addressed;]] [[Calls on the Government, by 1 March 2017 at the latest, to send a factual account to the Court of Justice on all internal warnings for the period 2014-2016 on security risks, and to have this fact report prepared by an independent rapporteur,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-342]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	This motion was co-signed by Mr Grashoff. I hope that the Secretary of State will still give this account of the facts. I'd like to leave the exact form to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. I said in the first term that this debate could at best be an intermediate position. It turns out that's right, too. We have been clarified in a number of ways and not in a number of ways. Over the period at the time of the establishment of the Broedkamer there is still a lot to be worked out and clarified. The same applies to the warnings that would have been internal about the tax authorities' security. That point is also taken into account in the investigation. I hope that in the second term, today, I will get an answer to the question of whether there has been a discussion with the members of the Broedkamer and what experience there are with the work visit there. If not, this can also be taken into account in the investigation. It is important that the bottom stone rises. The same applies to the tendering procedure. It's a good thing we're getting a forensic check-up on that. I am counting on all outstanding questions to be examined. At the same time, I have also understood that the Tax Administration and the Ministry need time to do so. Finally, on the investigation that the Secretary of State is going to do, I would like to know who is doing it and how it is taking shape. The butcher shouldn't be judging his own meat. I would also like to hear about the reaction to Mr Omtzigt's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. The situation surrounding possibly inadequate data security at the Tax Administration is no different than in the context of the broader problem at the Tax Administration, which has been investigated by Mr Borstlap and Mr Joustra, among others. They make a number of important observations about the management culture and the way the service was run, closed culture, selfishness, poor direction, control of processes not in order, and make a number of essential recommendations. In that light, I take the signals that came out through ZEMBLA extra seriously. They do fit a little into that picture, to say it a little unparliamentary. This means, all the more so, that this Secretary of State must do everything possible to ensure maximum transparency in the shortest possible time and to ensure independent research into the issues raised. That is why I signed Mr Van Weyenberg's motion. It calls on the Secretary of State to present with great urgency, in the most administratively relevant issue, an independent and sound fact sheet of the warnings that have been given, whether or not there has been actual data leaks. If a serious warning is not taken up as such in a corporate culture, that is a reprehensible fact when it comes to something so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. I understand that it is unsatisfactory for many people in this Chamber and in my view for the Secretary of State that an answer cannot yet be given to all questions. I hope that this can happen with the investigations that are being carried out. I also believe that this should be done in a thorough manner. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to find out whether there were any warnings and that this is taken into account in the investigation. I have two more points. Firstly, there is another question about the privacy officer. The Secretary of State will come back to that. Secondly, I call it the hotline. How do you solve the problem of leaks to the media? How can you put that into practice? I wonder if the Secretary of State could mention a time limit for this. It always remains a little vague when the hotline can be realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	Does the VVD agree with me that it would be good if the investigation into possible data leaks and, therefore, the errors made or might have been made with the Tax Administration was carried out externally and independently and not by the Tax Administration itself? We must avoid situations such as those surrounding the first report on the receipt, which was written by an official and in which Secretary of State Bitches was not allowed to be called upon to play his role in the public prosecutor's office, which meant that nothing came out of it at all. A proper investigation must be carried out. Does Mrs De Vries share the view that this research should be external and independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	I think it is important that there is a proper investigation. The Secretary of State has said that he is still sending the question to the House of Representatives and that he will inform her who will carry out the investigation. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	We share the desire for solidity. That is why my motion also states that it must be ready by June. So it doesn't have to be a quickie, nor does it have to be ready before 15 March. Does the VVD share the view that the butcher should not approve his own meat? If there has been a possible security breach, which has been warned a great deal, even if it could lead to criminal offences, it should not be investigated by the Tax Administration itself or by people who work there, but by people from outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's advance. Then we know who's going to do it and how he wants to ensure that there are no people involved who might be involved in the investigation itself. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you. The Secretary of State can answer directly. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. I have to make one comment, because it is a little unclear in the speeches and you think at home that something is already certain that something is wrong. Let's get this straight. There's been a broadcast. That's the fact. At the moment, however, it is not certain that there has been a data breach or that there has been an unacceptable risk of a data breach. That's not certain. There are allegations; that is the fact. It's been logged, monitored, and so on. We must now find out whether I am following Mr Grashoff's reasoning that there has been an unacceptable risk of a data breach or that there has been a data breach. We still have to find out. We shouldn't assume there's something wrong with data if we don't know that. There are allegations that are serious and I'm looking at them. That has to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	These allegations are there. They're serious. However, there is also the fact that the Secretary of State could have looked at this for a week and removed the allegations. He had the log files of the eighteen USB drives that could probably be used by employees for two years to download and place things, find them and analyze them. But he didn't even say he found them. None of that happened. The fact that they cannot be found is in itself extremely serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	I didn't say they couldn't be found. I have said that I have spent six days in the last week trying to ensure that the data situation is sufficiently safe now. To limit the risk extra, I've taken additional measures. That is what I have focused on, and that is now the most relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	And now the questions and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr Omtzigt once again asked why a new confidant had not been appointed. I've gone into that, I think. I have said that there is a wide network of trusted people. The problem isn't that there's no such thing as a trusted person. People with all kinds of things can go to a trusted person. The problem is that the system is apparently not yet covering. I'm looking for an additional figure. That is why we are in conversation with the House of whistleblowers. That was the answer to that question. In the six-month report, I would like to announce that this person is active. That is my aim, because we all agree here that this cannot be done. I'll come to the motion in part No. 341 on an external and independent investigation. I would like to refer to the fact that there is no certainty that something is wrong here. The first person to inspect the meat is always the butcher. It's the IRS that's responsible for his data security. It is the Tax Administration that has set higher standards for this particular department than for the rest. It's the IRS that has to look at this and solve it. It's the IRS that needs to get the logs on the table. No, they are not missing, but they are not yet unlocked, at least not for the period longer than two years ago. I am committed to the tax authorities doing this, but I think it is important that independence is guaranteed. I don't want the responsibility to drift away from the Tax Administration by having it done externally. I want that responsibility to remain with the service. I propose that we join a so-called EDP auditor, someone from the National Auditor's Office who supervises the orderly conduct. Again, let's not take responsibility away from where it belongs. It goes without saying that if criminal matters come up, the Tax Administration must of course report them and give them away to the people who are before them. That's always the way it is when criminal cases come up in an organization. The order is really important. The first person to inspect the meat is the butcher. Only when there is a licence of inability, will we do other things. Mr Omtzigt is quite right on the issue of criminal law. There are no judges at the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	What's the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	The verdict is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Omtzigt has a question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	It is now not recommended to conduct independent and external research, while there are serious allegations. I'm truly surprised. It's just a motion asking for an external investigation. Otherwise, if something is found that isn't right, you have to report yourself that you've done something that isn't right. And then it's always hanging on top of it. This is also for the protection of the Tax Administration. We learned from Van Brummen's report on the whole ticketing affair. There was something to be found inside, but a whole thing was rigged to make sure it wasn't found. The Secretary of State may investigate in-house what he wants, but with these serious allegations I wonder what the objection is to have external research into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	My proposal is, no, my decision would be to ensure the independence of the investigation by having the ADR watched. If we really go down the road that organizations like the Tax Administration would no longer be able to investigate their own data security, then we are way out of our way. I am really not prepared to accept that conclusion at this stage. Secure the independence of the investigation? Yes. But giving that out of your hands? I really don't see any reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	Data security should have been investigated by now. We asked about the audits in the debate. If they had been submitted, we could have seen that internal investigations had been carried out. That appears to be not available at the moment. Let's just leave it at that. Well, then you'd like this to be investigated externally. I really don't understand why the Secretary of State is going to do internal research first, and then we're going to do something external again. Don't do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	It is not certain that things are insufficient. There are serious allegations and they're being looked at. As soon as it turns out that there are some very serious things going on that you can say independence is at stake, then we'll get out of here. At the moment, there are no indications. The allegations are serious, but there are no indications that this is a fact. There aren't any. It's gonna have to be seriously investigated. As far as I am concerned, the government's accounting department agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr Grashoff, you may ask a short question because this is a motion from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	Certainly, but we will also have to vote on that motion, and that can sometimes be difficult. The Secretary of State will have the ADR watched. I don't quite understand. What's that watching? Does the investigation take place under the responsibility of the Audit Service? I can't make a chocolate out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	As far as I am concerned, the investigation is under the responsibility of the person concerned, namely the Tax Administration. The accounting department should ensure that this investigation is carried out in a sound manner. The service reports on it, too. It is the responsibility of the government's accounting department to form an opinion on the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then the motion to part No. 342.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	I must first answer a question from Mr Bashir. Why didn't I see that part? I can't ask about pieces I don't know. Then I have to ask whether there is, somewhere perhaps, an unfinished unfinished draft document that says something other than what we are discussing in this discussion. I have assumed that I have received a good answer to the question of whether there are any signs that there are risks that have already been reported at the top of the service. I have had the answer that these signals may have been given. I haven't figured out if this piece confirms it. In Mr Omtzigt's view, that is the case. Here again I have confirmed: yes, I have received signals that there have been signals. This piece doesn't change that conclusion at all. You can't ask about a piece you don't know about, about a piece you don't know exists. Officially, it doesn't even exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	The Secretary of State should have known, because the broadcast referred to signals mentioned in the document. But I have another question. That question is about the piece itself, but also about other documents that the Tax Administration does not currently officially record. What's the reason for that? Why aren't pieces officially recorded anymore? Why are they all draft pieces? Is there a reason for that? Does that have anything to do with the information provided by the Secretary of State or the Chamber? Can the Secretary of State comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	It is not at all the way in which documents are not to be drawn up. The Committee considered that there were doubts as to the adoption of the Management Board's reports. Mr Bashir, for example, recently received a report from me on internal fiscal control. That is an established document which I sent to the Chamber because it was the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then I want to know why this particular piece has never been officially recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	I've known this piece for about 12 minutes. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	No, Mr Bashir, the Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	I assume the Secretary of State will return to this matter. Then we know why this piece isn't recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	I will take this into account in that investigation, and we will see in it whether there have been warnings, of whatever order or whatever. Mr Bashir also had an answer to the question whether the investigation had not started until after ZEMBLA. I think I answered that in the debate. In the run-up to the broadcast of ZEMBLA, we came up with these allegations because of questions from the broadcaster. Until then, there was no reason for me to assume data leaks. Frankly, I still don't have it, unlike the allegations made by ZEMBLA, but I think the signals are serious enough and that's why we started investigating them. That makes sense, too, that you're going to investigate something if you get a serious signal. I think that Mr Bashir was really mad at the microphone when I said: well, signals, what do you do with it, so many signals, I will not have them investigated. No, if you get such a serious signal, you're gonna investigate. That's what you do. It's supposed to be. That's it. Mr Van Weyenberg, in his wake Mr Grashoff, tabled a motion on a factual account of all internal warnings. I attach the order to this point. I need to see if something's wrong first. It is not certain that anything is going on. That's exactly what we need to see. If something turns out to be going on and there is an unacceptable high risk, I follow Mr Grashoff's words, and that does not even have to be the leak itself, then it becomes very relevant to look at those internal warnings. I'm gonna take that into the investigation and I'm not gonna be able to do it this time. I believe that I understand the intentions of Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Weyenberg, namely that they want to know whether there is a culture of warnings in which people run into a wall, but I can only do what I can. I will try to be as far as possible in the six-month report and then I will be as open as possible about the results. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	It's not a question of being able to do it. It's a question of wanting to do it. Again, this motion is not about whether there has been a security breach. That needs to be investigated. The question is whether there have been any warnings. Even the Secretary of State admits that he has signals that there are signals. In that case, I think it is only natural for the Chamber to say: put together a quick list of internal warnings. There is no question of whether those warnings were justified. If the answer from the facts is "we investigated it and it turned out wrong," then I think that's a good outcome. However, I want to know. I find it quite incomprehensible that the Secretary of State does not take up this quest with this urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think that Mr Van Weyenberg really has to agree with me that the main question is whether something was ultimately wrong. We are probably warned dozens of times a day in the Netherlands about the end of time, but as long as we do not think that the end of time is near, we do not have to investigate all this. If something was wrong here, in Mr Grashoff's words, then those warnings become extremely relevant. And they're being taken into the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	Again, I hear repetitions from both sides, both from the MPs and from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	Just before the order: of course I know that those warnings were justified. However, it was not Pinocchio who warned but employees of the Tax Administration. I take them extremely seriously when they warn me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	You've made your point. Mr Omtzigt has a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	As far as the document that has just been sent is concerned, I fully understand that it has not been studied in an hour. Whoever it goes to is currently in charge of the Brood Room. If the boss of the Broodkamer has to investigate whether there have been any warnings, then we are a little bit... The Secretary of State only has signals that there might be signals. Then you want to investigate externally and independently, and have a factual account of what Mr Van Weyenberg is asking for? What's against looking inside from the outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	This discussion has just taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	We've seen the broadcast. Windows have been taped off at the Brood Room, and now they can investigate it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	Sorry. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	I would like to ask a question about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the motion of the Van Weyenberg and myself. He continues to interpret my words. If there is not something really going on with a serious risk, then there is nothing to investigate. The Van Weyenberg/Grashoff motion is precisely about how you can make this clear to us in a decent way and independently. What happened consecutively, who warned who, what was done with that warning, was the warning rightly or unjustly dismissed? This is exactly what the Secretary of State is talking about. I give him the urgent advice to be a little less stubborn in this, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	Now the request is extended. Now it's about who's with who... then it's going to be an official whodunit. We really don't. It is important to know how internal warnings have been handled. It is not important, at least not in a parliamentary sense, who said what to whom and who is guilty of it, or who has cleaned themselves. That is not the case here, and it is not the case in this Chamber. Mr Grashoff said this in a subtlety and perhaps he did not mean it, but this is exactly as far as I am concerned, exactly as it should not be. Mr Van Weyenberg has in his first term, and Mr Groot has asked in his second term what we are doing with those employees of D&A. How are we gonna find out if they've lived in a culture where they've been put under pressure? We can't pressure them to make a statement about that. You don't have to. So we need to talk to these people in an acceptable and accessible way. Here's what I've been able to think of. I would like to ask a new and hitherto unconnected confidant to ask these people if they would be willing to just have a conversation about the culture that prevails there, how they may have experienced pressure and how they deal with it. That must be voluntary, because we do not want to put pressure on people to tell them if they are being put under pressure. I thought this was an easy way to approach them. Because yes, there have been meetings, but during a big meeting with a lot of people, you don't raise your hand to say you're under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr Van Weyenberg wants to ask a question. Please be brief, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	I've been critical of the Secretary of State a number of times. However, I think this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Ah, now you have all the space. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	I think it's classy to just admit it. Just because, like the Secretary of State, I just can't imagine it, I want to get rid of this, too. I don't want to pressure anyone to confess either. This seems to me to be an excellent, easily accessible proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	There. Will you finish up, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	Yes, I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. Mr Grashoff has once again stressed that he considers the internal warning to be relevant, as I agree with him in general terms. In the meantime, I have also tried to give Mrs De Vries, also on the basis of Mr Omtzigt's question, more clarity as to when the hotline will be there. Mr Van Dijck asked if specific people at D&A could create a print screen. Where's Mr. Van Dijck? He's not in the room right now? He's got ganz shrouded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	Here comes Mr Van Dijck again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	There are exactly the same possibilities within D&A as within the rest of the service. Privacy and responsibilities are guaranteed at individual level. However, people must be able to do their job. A print screen can indeed be made. As soon as you send things by e-mail, it will be logged again and there will be warnings. For example, the files you can send are linked to a maximum size. Underneath, the automatic system also starts to beep that there are mails with too large files attached to them. Those are things that apply to the Tax Administration as a whole, and they also apply to D&A. In addition, the external employees of course do not have mobile devises, so never have access to data outside the office. But a print screen can be made, because people also want to scribble on a leaf every now and then. In the end, people have to be able to do their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	How much longer do you think you'll need, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	Well, I have one more question to answer, namely Mrs De Vries's on privacy officer. I think this is a very good question and I am committed to really answering it. At the time, in February, this function was not yet crystallized. That was the finding of the Audit Service Empire. That was at the very beginning, when D&A was founded. The privacy officer took up his duties on 1 March 2015, roughly one month after the creation of D&A. There's a job description for what this person does. For example, they do privacy impact assessments on data usage in projects. That is the one who goes to data analyst Groot and says: Mr Groot, you are analysing this and this, but I think you have too wide access to the data, because you do not need these and these things and that is not proportionate or effective and it can be done with a little less. Then Mr Groot's authorization will be amended. That's what a person like that does. But it also advises and monitors security policy. For example, that person is now working on the D&A Physical Access project, which is now running at BZK. That is what this person is doing, and he also has very concrete and useful tasks in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	We will vote on the motions tabled next Wednesday. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and the Members of Parliament for their input.
