ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I received written answers from the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, Deputy Prime Minister to questions, asked in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	We will continue with the discussion of the VWS budget. Today we are discussing the question of the Government's response. Before I give the floor to the Minister for Health, I give the floor to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a general comment. We received a very comprehensive written response last night. We are always very happy about that, because the aim of this is to make the debate we are having today much shorter. Without going into the content, I feel really lacking in this. The answer is so far away from the questions I have asked. They're answers to questions I haven't asked. Things I have said are then described quite differently here. We're just a very small team, but we're source idiots and we're making source books. Everything we say here is based on facts. I didn't stand here 25 minutes ago talking bullshit. You build that up for years and years, but this is going to be a Chamberpiece, and this Chamberpiece contains mistakes and things I haven't said. Answers are given that don't add up. I can't stand that, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I would like to make the debate three times longer, but that is not possible. I will not go into the substance of this now, but I would like to see it included in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	You've made your point. Fortunately, you are in the Chamber when it comes to dealing with the budget. If you still want to raise a question, you will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the many questions that were asked in the first term. I'm only responding immediately to Mrs. Agema. We really tried to answer those questions in the best way possible. If we have not succeeded well enough, of course I would like to hear it. You have just said that in a general sense, but where you simply want questions answered better, I am happy to get to work on it, because that is our job: to answer your questions. But we didn't just hear questions. We have also been able to listen to all your views and reflections in the debate. There must have been a lot of similarities. The loving concern, as Mrs Hermans said so beautifully, has been mentioned by several groups. We also agree wholeheartedly, of course, on the proper compliments to the people in the care of many groups. I would like to speak first of all a few introductory words and then I will reply. Traditionally, I want to do that in cubes. I thought it would be useful for the President to mention those cubes. I want to start with a block of "older care": nursing care, care at home and the approach to loneliness. Then there will be a block of 'living with a disability', for example, on the UN Convention and on quality care in disability care. The third block is "the cost of care," the fourth block is "administrative charges" and the fifth block is "medical/ethical." The sixth block listens to the poetic name "other." We do a number of other questions, but as asked, the questions have been answered in the written set you have received. It was 200 questions. So it was a shitty pile last night. After years of system discussions and changing healthcare laws, several groups have said that we are finished with the major renovation for the time being. Now it is up to us to make sure that people actually experience that care gets better, because care is human work. It is people and not so much laws, rules and letters to the Chamber that make the difference in the care. I am not saying that to put our work into perspective here, although relativization is actually nothing wrong. I say this in order to emphasise what, as far as I am concerned, we will have to focus on over the next few years. Care is human work. And so we have to take care of it when the people in the care run into an ever-increasing paper mountain, as several groups have indicated. I'd like to get into that later. And so we cannot accept it if, despite the system changes, people do not experience that their care has improved. And so, as Mrs Bergkamp said, we need to take better steps towards the people. That's a fine statement. It is up to us to ensure that people in care can and will make a difference, in care for the elderly, in care for the disabled and in care for young people. It is very good to see that your Chamber has already put forward many concrete proposals in the first place. I'll be happy to deal with that later. The care is well arranged here, Mrs Dijksma said, and it is. But she also said something after it, namely: not everyone feels that way. Although everyone knows that, if you are sick or need support, you can actually live the best in this country, we also know, from the conversations we all have, but also from the studies of the SCP, for example, that one of the biggest concerns of Dutch people is precisely about the care. People are wondering whether it will be there for them soon and whether we can continue to pay for the care. Many of the groups have also expressed these concerns on Tuesday. Trust in the future, the title of the coalition agreement, is not given to many people at all. Some people have lost that trust or are losing it. Trust in the future therefore sees this cabinet as an assignment. That mission has everything to do with what the three of us and the one hundred and fifty of you want to achieve here in the coming years in the care of people. There is also a world to be won in my portfolio, in the care of the elderly, in the care of young people and in the care of people with disabilities. Our society is on the verge of a great change. Now there are 1.3 million people over 75 years of age. By 2030, there will be 2.1 million. Being ready for that is our first important assignment. Older people are literally our future and make an important contribution to our society. Nobody's too old to fit in. With municipalities, institutions, companies and organisations working for and with older people, we want to conclude a pact for care for the elderly in the near future to achieve three goals. Mrs. De Jonge of Ellemeet asked me if I wouldn't want to forget the elderly who live at home. I can reassure her. Many older people live longer and longer at home, and the first goal of the Pact for care for the elderly is precisely to support them there with the right care. Of course we prefer to do so at home, where they have lived their whole lives, where memories have been made, where the children grew up and where they know every dent in the floor. This care at home is organized with the general practitioner and the district nurse, with support from the municipality and with the help of the family and other relatives. But despite all these good concerns, a house can still feel like an impregnable fortress: the stairs too high, the thresholds too unsafe or the bathroom too unreachable. And then it's nice if we can change a house, so it still remains a suitable house. If the shops and care facilities are nearby, life is perfectly organized. But sometimes houses are just too big or the environment is not suitable. Then we have to look for forms of housing that are in between the home and the institution. We therefore need to make them more widely available and varied. Mrs. Kooiman mentioned that in her plan on Tuesday. I'd like to get into that later. Together with the Ministry of the Interior, we are currently looking at whether and how these intermediate forms can be developed. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the good cares at home, sometimes things don't go on anymore. This brings me to the second objective of the Pact for care for the elderly: better care for nursing homes. Many of the groups have also mentioned this in their contributions. On a job visit you can see for yourself that in some nursing homes things are actually going very well, and fortunately. Yet there are certainly also people who do not feel that happy in such a house. There the care should be noticeable, measurable and palpable better. That is why it is good that we have a quality framework. We need to get to work on its introduction. Mrs Hermans has devoted a great deal of time to this. That quality framework gives us a grip on the quality. It also gives us the means to improve the quality of nursing home care. That is important, but most importantly, perhaps even more important than the quality frameworks, is the question that everyone who works in the care should ask themselves daily: would this house also be the house I would like for my own mother and would this also be the house in which I would like to grow old myself? A third objective of the Pact for care for the elderly is to reduce loneliness. Because of the 75-year-olds, over 50% say they feel alone. Those are 650,000 lonely elderly, if you count them. In weeks like this, with shorter, dark days and on TV one after another tinkling Christmas commercial, I can imagine that loneliness feels even more intense than on a light spring day. And that's terrible. Loneliness may be a phenomenon typical of this era of individualization, but that does not mean that we have to accept it as a fact of life. No one wants to live in such a search-the-self-but-out society. Of course loneliness is such a big issue that it can also paralyze. Solving loneliness cannot be asked of people, but one's loneliness can of course be broken or reduced. Anyone can choose to be a better neighbor today and to make someone feel that the world is waiting for him. Looking at each other can be a bit more self-evident. What this approach looks like, of course, is different from one municipality to another; Rotterdam is not Raalte. A second task of care is to ensure that everyone can participate fully: young or old, healthy or sick, limited or not. There are 2 million people with disabilities. They have to ask and accept help for the most basic things. School, sports and travel aren't all self-contained. There can be a lot else, as Mr van der Staaij rightly said, for example by removing physical thresholds in shops and restaurants and figurative thresholds in schools and in the workplace. Mrs Dik-Faber rightly mentioned families with a severely disabled child. With the working group "We can see you" we look together with some of these families at which bottlenecks we need to resolve. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Slootweg that we should mainly work with experience experts themselves. Nothing about us without us: that is not for nothing the slogan of the UN Disability Convention. We discussed a third task for the coming period in detail last week, so I would like to talk very briefly about this today, namely youth. Together with municipalities and youth care institutions, we are going to ensure that the system works as intended. And it doesn't work until parents and kids say it works. With the Minister for Legal Protection and, above all, with many parties in the country, we are fighting domestic violence and child abuse, which is the biggest problem of violence we have in our society. Their approach must therefore be one of our main priorities. Mr. Chairman. Better care for the elderly and a society in which everyone participates and children grow up safely: that is my and our most important task for the coming period. Everything we do is the most important question: how do our choices make people's lives noticeable, palpable and measurable better? It has often been said last Tuesday: working in care goes with heart and soul. That's what I've tasted in the debate here. I have only had a few debates, but that 'with heart and soul' is in the people in the care as much as in the spokesmen about the care. That's good to see. To quote Mrs Agema, care is ours. That's how we all feel. That is why it is nice to come together from the content to improve and with good ideas to make the care of and for the people at home better. I would like to discuss your proposals to that effect. I'll do that in the next few blocks. One: care for the elderly, nursing home care, home care and the approach to loneliness. Two: living with a disability. Three: the cost of care. Four: the administrative burden. Five: the medical ethical issues. Finally, a number of other questions. Mr. Chairman. The approach to nursing care has been mentioned by all the groups as perhaps the most important and also the most difficult task in care for the elderly for the coming period. I would like to address the questions about the quality framework. How are we going to enter that? Mrs Hermans has asked most of the questions about this, but I would like to start with the first concrete step that we are already making in concrete terms for 2018. Already in 2018, 435 million of the announced 2 billion will go to nursing care. Maybe it's good to remind you how that went, because I've heard different numbers. In 2017, the first additional resources have actually become available. First 100 million occasionally for the nursing homes where the problems were greatest and then 100 million structurally. In the budget we are discussing today, 335 million has been added. So that together is 435 million for the coming year. If you make a phone call in the country and go on a work visit, you also hear that institutions are very specific about hiring people and are working on improving their own care. I think it is important that we see, and that the people in the nursing homes themselves see, that the first steps are already being taken. Maybe just a few numbers to get a grip on. What could you possibly notice next year? The rates have thus already been increased in 2018. The rates have been increased by 5% on top of the regular wage and price adjustment. That is really a lot and gives room to attract some 7,000 fte for nursing care next year. That's about 10,000 extra employees assuming an average working time factor of 0.6 and a little bit. If you consider that there are 2,000 locations for nursing home care for those 10,000 employees, then next year it would mean five extra employees per location, on average and if we make sure that the extra money available actually reaches the people. You have to. I'll get back to you on how we're gonna send it. This means that €5,000 extra per place is available, from €80,000 to €85,000. That's 10,000 employees for 2,000 houses. That's a serious first step. That must actually be noticeable in the care, time and attention the people who live there experience. And, of course, it must also be noticeable to reduce the workload of the people who work there. Then I'll go to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Before you do that, one more question from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	This is, of course, a question I have asked. It is not only the case that 37 000 people have been released from care homes and nursing homes in the last period, but also that this new money will be added to the budget. That is not new money, by the way, because there is a lot of savings and if you add that it is not extra money, but good. In 2021 there will only be 37,000 people again. My question to the Minister was what he says to the people who live there now. The people who live there now on average eight months before they die are not going to see that occupation anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Agema. When we had a debate on the labour market last week, I also told her that people should notice next year. If Grandma doesn't notice that I said that at the time, although that might be a bit of a simplification we didn't do well with each other. That is why I am explaining so specifically that 435 million, the step we are taking next year, is a first step, but a very concrete, noticeable and tangible step for the people in nursing care. If you have an average of five extra employees per location, you'll notice. I've also asked you to give me examples of what you see that about. I have asked for concrete examples of how we see it. I could mention them, because they really are very concrete examples of the number of people who are already attracted and an increased daily spending that is already being asked for. There one simply has more time and more attention, even when eating and with all the support there is. That is necessary, because the people who are now in a nursing home also need that intensive time, care and attention. I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's not the question I asked. I get it, because when money comes in, it has its effect. The same was true in 2012 with the Agemageld. That's when new people were hired. But in the meantime, care has gone through the ground and 37 000 people have been released from nursing homes and nursing homes. If you now come up with a pick of 7,000, while 37,000 new people are needed to reach an occupation standard of two employees of eight residents in 2021, only during peak times, the situation is still years that there are many and far too few employees. The promises will not be met until 2020. My question to the Minister was and will remain what he says to the nursing home residents of today. They live there on average for the last eight months of their lives. Because they might notice something about that, but they're not going to notice that line-up standard by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	I don't know if people in a nursing home with the spreadsheets on their laps notice anything of an occupation standard. I think they find that care, attention, time and intensity of care are increasing. That's exactly what they're supposed to notice. That can't be overnight, all at once. Last week, in the Labour Market Policy, we found that there are not so many people in one go. There's not a minute to open a can. What the Cabinet can do, and it does, is step by step increase the budget available for nursing care. I'll be right back to the cost side of the care. This budget will be increased by 2 billion in this cabinet period. That's a huge rise. That's what's needed. It's okay. It's a conscious choice. It is a huge increase in budgetary space. Those achievements, which fill in a good and qualitatively good way, are really our most important task for the coming period. I'm not under any illusions. We're not done in one go. If we have a debate in January and March, you will have examples of where it is not good enough. I'm sure of it. But you will also have examples of where it has indeed become much better, tangible better, compared to previous years. It is our mission to make it tangible, tangible, noticeable and measurable as soon as possible for the people in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think we're heading for something of an answer, but I think it's hard for the minister to just be honest with the people. Residents who live there now, on average the last eight months before they die, are not going to see that there is at all a minimal occupation of two care workers out of eight residents. Think of the manifesto-Borst that we have accepted here in the Chamber. I think you should just be honest with the people and children of the people who are now in a nursing home and say: your father, your mother is not going to see it anymore. We're running out of money. There are 7,000 people a year, but it is only in 2021 that an occupation comes a bit close to what you can expect. There's not gonna be any extra money now. There will be extra money compared to a lot less. We're trying to build something. But just be honest, instead of saying we're gonna invest and there's gonna be extra money. It's just taunting people now, even for the people who work there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	Clear, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	I do not think we disagree that this extra intensification is absolutely necessary. It is not already in the 2018 budget at 2 billion. That is why I want to be honest and say that we are doing it step by step. That's one. Two is that I also think we should be honest with each other about the fact that it is going to be noticeable next year. That is why I call these numbers so concrete. If that 435 million is actually being spent, as I see in many places, on more people, then that means more people seriously. In a sector with 10,000 extra people allowed to do the work, feels really enlightening for the people who work there. Really, you're gonna notice. That increases the intensity of the care, really, really. Not enough, I agree with Mrs Agema. So we're gonna have to keep going, but it's noticeable. That is also our task for the coming period. That is how I understood Mrs Hermans' contribution. Like others, she said that that 2 billion extra is a lot of money. It is a huge amount of money, but we will have to make sure that this money ends up in those places where it is needed. Several groups have asked these questions. I'm just gonna walk by and ask you a few questions. Mrs Hermans asked about customer and employee satisfaction, the quality plan and the quality accountability. She asked what we can take over from Dignity and pride. She also asked how nursing home drivers are judged. Mrs Bergkamp asked a question about the regulatory burden and the necessary cultural change. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kuzu and Mrs Sazias wanted to know how this money was being used. Mr Van der Staaij asked how we would prevent healthcare providers who are already doing well from being punished. I want to take all these questions together. I hope to send the multi-annual, longer-term approach to nursing care to the Chamber in the first quarter. I can see that we are making this a very concrete approach to improvement, up to the level of location. You can say that the nursing home care sector needs to move forward, but it may take a very long time for Grandma to notice that the sector is progressing. We want it to progress at every location. That means you start there. That's the unity of change. A second level is the level of the institution. The quality framework states that a quality plan applies, that an improvement paragraph is made in the quality plan per location and that a quality report is made. What we need to do is to make sure that this improvement approach to nursing care is as concrete as possible, so that we can follow that approach at the level of the location. What do people notice tomorrow? That's always the question. The question is also always: would this be the house where you would like to live? Then there is another level and that is the level of care purchase. Mrs Hermans has said a number of things about this too. Those care agencies are buying care in their region. I think that we all believe that this procurement can be much more substantive and can be much more focused on quality and that this purchase will greatly boost quality and quality development. That means a big blow for the health offices. They will really have to do their work differently, but I'd like to get to work on it, including with the health insurance companies. I also expect health care agencies to contribute to the development of the labour market with municipalities and health insurance companies. This will be the crucial point in the coming period: will we have enough people? I'm not so worried about the money. That money's there, but are we gonna have enough people? Then there is another level and that is the national level. There too you can shape that control on the quality very well from the inspection. The inspection has actually already changed its supervision but will in the coming period also present the locations and carry out a risk analysis in the sense of: which locations are we concerned about and which locations are we looking forward to? The NZa is looking at the pricing and how it can contribute to the strengthening of quality. It has been agreed that there will be a benchmark, which has both a financial side and a qualitative side. If we make good use of this benchmark and set it up properly, it will help to reduce the administrative burden. If institutions are questioned on different indicators each time, these administrative burdens are, of course, greatly increased. If we can downsize that and make sure that institutions are only questioned on one indicator, then that is very helpful. But more importantly, it is a mirror for quality development, a mirror for health offices, for example, to participate in their procurement: we want you to experience this development in relation to the rest of the country. With that benchmark, buyers, healthcare agencies really have something in their hands to improve care purchasing. The second element is that at the level of the location you keep the leaders at that location in front of the mirror: this is how the neighbors do it and how could you develop, what step could you take the next day? With these elements, we want to develop an approach. Of course, I do that with the nursing home care myself. Once again, I hope to come to the Chamber in the first quarter with a very concrete approach. Mrs Hermans also asked how the phrase in the coalition agreement on the assessment of the driver should be seen. Well, so, by holding the mirror through the benchmark, by making sure that you also put the supervisory board in the position to address its driver, by making sure that you put the inspection in the position to address the driver. In this way, the development that a driver can bring about in an institution gets very much into the sunlight. This also means that you can encourage the driver in a good way to make those improvements at the level of the individual location. That is how I interpret that sentence in the coalition agreement. Mrs Agema spoke of an overhead standard in nursing care. If we use the benchmark in a good way and, as Mrs Hermans said, we take the best performing 25% in the field of overhead as a starting point and base the rates on it, then in fact we normalize the overhead within institutions. I think this is a very good thing. So that's how I'd like to get to work on that overhead standard. Let me say a few words about the labour market. A number of things have been said about the labour market in relation to nursing care. Last week we had the debate on this, with 325 million in total available, the first 30 million of which had already been put away. But there has been such enthusiasm, and this question has proved to be so great that the tenders amount to 115 million in plans. This shows how much the need is in the sector, but also how much enthusiasm it is. We are trying to see if we can bring forward something from the instalments for later years in order to implement precisely those plans that are already in place. So we want to bring forward the last two tranches of the sum of 50 million, so that we can now pay 80 million. I think that's a hell of a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	I am, of course, very happy with the latter, because I believe that, as the Minister points out, it is also necessary for people to notice that there is going to be a change. That is also why the SP always advocates an occupation standard. I have listened carefully to the Minister, but I haven't heard that come by. Does he not agree with the SP that there should be an occupation standard if you really want to relieve the workload of employees and give the elderly more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'm looking at that a little bit more nuanced. There is a staff standard; an occupation standard is currently in the quality framework. But at the same time, as soon as the ink was dry, everyone in the sector said: yes, but we have to give more context to that, you have to make such a standard context-bound. Because it depends very much on the group that guides you. Not all people need the same care at any time of the day, so you have to look at context-related standards. That is why the quality framework as we know it and as it has been established and registered at the Healthcare Institute is being developed at the moment and context-related standards are being developed. I also think that's very good, because I think you should always look at that type of standard in context. "One size fits all" doesn't really fit anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	That standard is not binding and I think you should look at the context, but there should be a minimum requirement. The kind of excrement like the Schutse in Lopik, where in one night there was an occupation standard of 1 in 60, we don't want anymore, because we want to relieve that workload. We want to give the older one the care he needs. So as far as the SP is concerned, you really should come up with a minimum requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think you need to come up with context-based standards that are directional, because that's the quality standard. At that point the inspection has something to fall back on, because that is, of course, the goal of a quality framework: that the sector knows what the direction is, what the guidance is from the financiers. The inspection then looks into the context. But just stick to that directive. Because the quality framework is actually a directive, as is actually the case in all medical sectors. Then it's always comply or explain. So it's always contextual. We should never want to take out the professionalism of people, the professional choices people make. That's a very unwise thing to do. "One size fits all" doesn't really fit anyone, and so you have to provide standards that are directional but where there is always room for a professional own consideration. Otherwise, you don't take people in the sector seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	We are gradually coming to a point I would like to discuss with the Minister. It is of course a good thing that extra money will be provided for the quality of nursing homes. But we also want to make the movement from quality of care to quality of life. That is so difficult to grasp in standards, in ticking lists. Things haven't gone well in recent years either. We've had the blacklist. It's done more harm than good. How are we going to make sure that we are really committed to quality of life and do not have a settlement culture but really a culture of encouragement to put that at the centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	I have also heard your debate on this with Mrs Hermans in the first term. I agree with you that we shouldn't want ticking lists. But let's also take a look at the context in which that type of lists comes into being. That is why we should now be pleased with the quality framework that exists. For years, however, the quality of the nursing home sector was under control. There was no standard, there was no directive, there was really nothing to base yourself on, except the supervisory framework of the inspection. And with the quality framework, for the first time, we actually have a professional standard. You can have all kinds of opinions about how that quality framework was created, but the most important thing now is that we have it and we have to develop it. That's what I just said in the direction of Mrs. Kooiman. The practice then also develops, including inspection supervision. Inspection monitoring is already more contextual at present. It's not finching anymore. It's just a visit from a day when clients, relatives and employees, as well as indeed the executives, are talking about how things are going there. That's how inspectors make up their minds. Only when it is necessary, for example, where they are already concerned about medication safety, will they pierce very precisely: what can we expect here? That makes sense to me, too. Then the inspection should also have teeth. Some say the inspection is actually a critical friend. No, as far as I'm concerned, the inspection should be a little sharper. It is also our safety valve in the system to indicate that the quality is below the standard, so that we can do something about it. Of course, we are going to be absolutely encouraging and welcoming with the whole quality approach, but at the end of the day we need to see measurable, noticeable and perceptible that it is getting better for people. Otherwise, we're gonna have to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	Sure, we have to see that, but people have to see it for themselves, of course. That seems extremely important to me, and the Minister has indicated it. I would very much like to hear more about this benchmark. We're gonna use that benchmark. Then, of course, it becomes very clear which nursing homes are higher on the list. How are we going to use that instrument as some kind of encouragement for all the other nursing homes, without what happened last year....................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	I get it. I can see where your concern lies. If you think we're going to turn that benchmark into some kind of Ranking the Stars, I can tell you that I'm absolutely not looking for that. That's one. Two: some think this is a run-up to incentive payment or something. I am absolutely not after that, because that leads to so many perverse effects that you shouldn't want at all. It has to do something else: it has to normalize. It's very good to get a mirror held out. Just look at the neighbors and wonder what you can do better than you do so far. Anyone can be better tomorrow than he was yesterday. That is an important effect. The benchmark should therefore include quality indicators and financial indicators. I just said in the direction of Mrs Agema that you should be able to normalize the overhead compared to the rest. If your institution has 35% overhead while another institution with a similar size and target group can do it by 25%, what can you learn from that other institution? So you can use such a benchmark very encouragingly. On the quality side I am thinking, for example, of employee satisfaction and client satisfaction, and preferably in the same way so that it is also comparable. What can you improve in that? Eventually, at the end of the day, you take stock of what people notice of your efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think this is a good and clear story from the Minister. I have another concern, based on past experience. I am talking about institutions that are already doing well. How do you prevent those who do not benefit from the extra money because they already have things in order and therefore cannot come up with improvement plans in all kinds of areas where all kinds of pockets of money are connected?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	That is exactly one of the reasons why I am not enthusiastic about incentive payment and not just about rewarding the improvement plan that is being deployed. In my opinion, it is precisely in terms of funding that you should want to offer peace at the front. In the end, therefore, funding must be as much as possible in the tariff. By the way, there can be more variation in that. You can see some variation now, but the maximum rates are the same for the whole country, while the costs are not the same for the whole country. I just want to rest on that funding. Next, the question to each institution is: what are you going to do with this money to improve from where you are now, also looking at and comparing with where the neighbor is? This applies to the level of each individual location. An institution that is already performing very well can undoubtedly learn something from another institution in the country that is also performing very well. Everyone is asked the question: what can you do to improve care? The budget is simply made available to the institutions via the rate. There is therefore no incentive payment element and innovation is not the only thing that is rewarded. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	Clear from the cabinet side, but then we also have the battle with the health offices, which then do not have to come up with all kinds of rules and requirements before the rates are made available. How does the Minister see that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	What we have to do, I think, is really go down a path of improvement with the health offices. We really need to raise the bar for the care offices. Where more care obligations are now met by buying on availability, so to speak, we really need to buy on quality. This means that the improvement envisaged in the sector as a whole is, to a large extent, designed precisely through purchasing. The concern that you express and which is also present at a number of institutions is that it leads to a lot more bureaucracy. The institutions fear that they will have to explain themselves very much rather than really show how good they are and what improvements they can make. That is a great concern, and I want to use that benchmark for that too. If we do not do this and do not come up with a national set of indicators to be accounted for, then every healthcare office will indeed come up with its own set of indicators. And then municipalities, wherever they offer something more broadly oriented, will also come up with their own indicators. The same applies to health insurers. And then it would be very crowded for institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	On that last point, I say that inspection reports are getting older. But at some point only 4% of the institutions had the occupation in order. That's how serious it was at some point. I want to ask you a question about the night care. In the written reply, I got the answer: with the transfer of the Central Planning Bureau, we actually sort of dealt with that. The Minister therefore did not recognise himself in an additional amount of 900 million. I took the CPB's credit card. If you also want to go to a standard at night, then 900 million more is needed. That's the question I asked. We are now going to invest extra in employees on the day, during peak times, two out of eight. But if you also want to achieve half past eight at night, you need 900 million euros extra. My question is whether the Minister wants to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	Look, what matters is that institutions are allowed to comply with the work in a way that we think is justified, laid down in quality standards, quality frameworks and so on. The quality framework now laid down in the register is the Quality Framework Nursing Care as we know it. What that must cost is passed on by the NZa. And that was then taken into account in the multiannual estimate by the CPB. So there is the necessary occupation, even in the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	That is not true, because this CPB transfer is prior to the quality framework. I hear more and more people talking about the quality framework, but it explicitly distances itself from a generic, numerical standard. The quality framework explicitly distances itself from an occupation standard. Where did we get this line-up standard? It's from the manifesto. We have signed it here in Chambers. And that's where the wire transfer came from from the Central Planning Office. And only then did the quality framework come into being, which explicitly distanced itself from a generic, numerical standard. That occupation standard and that amount are therefore not from the quality framework, but from the manifesto-Borst. So the CPB billing says: if you want the occupation in order in the night, you need 900 million extra. My question to the Minister is: is he going to take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think Mrs Agema knows the answer. What we're going to arrange is an extra 2 billion for nursing care. That's an astronomical amount. It is a huge task to spend it in a good way. I just had a whole debate on that. That amount takes into account the quality framework as we know it now. Until a new quality framework is established, this is the quality framework on which we base ourselves. This is an enormous task, both in terms of staff and in terms of content, to reach the workplace. Indeed, there is no absolute standard there, but a standard that is becoming more and more contextual at the moment. I think that's important. Again, that is the norm with which we work. It's just the industry standard set by the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	Your third interruption, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	It's the sixth time I've asked a question here. Then I have 12 of them in total or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yes. It really needs to be short. Otherwise, it's gonna be way too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	Sorry, Chairman. Finally, we have not tabled a motion in the Chamber for the implementation of a quality framework; we have tabled a motion on the occasion of the Borst manifesto. We all wanted an occupation standard. That's where the bill came out, and then we knew how big it was. After that, a quality framework has been created, but we have nothing to do with that, because we have not asked for it at all. We have asked for an occupation standard, based on the manifesto-Borst. I'd like to see that done. I really do hear a no now and I find that very disappointing for all those night nurses who do not get any extra hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	It's really different. In fact, you have adopted laws here in the Chamber which stipulate that the Healthcare Institute will eventually register the quality frameworks in the register. They then determine the rates and the amount of the funding by calculating the NZa. It is then up to us to incorporate this correctly into the budget. That's exactly what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	So there's an extra 2 billion going to nursing care, including for the staff. The Party for Animals very much wants the workload to be reduced and more hands on the bed. My question to the Minister is this: does he agree with the Animal Party that if we lower taxes on labour and increase taxes on raw materials and polluting services and products, this will allow health care institutions, among other things, to take more hands on the bed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	It is very inviting to philosophize extensively here about the change in the tax system, but we have two fantastic colleagues, Wopke Hoekstra and Menno Snel. I think you have a very good colleague for it too. Here, too, we have been very exuberant about how best to set up the tax system. We are mainly concerned here with spending all that money raised. I think that we should do this in a good way and that this should be the subject of our debates. Moreover, I do believe that lowering taxes on labour is always a very sensible idea, but that is precisely what is happening in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	Glad to hear that the Minister agrees with us, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	With a lot of other people, too, by the way. They think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	Very nice to hear. We would therefore like to look forward to the structural changes in this respect. I had one more question to add to the Minister's fine speech when he said that we want to remove the loneliness of the elderly and that we want to make people feel at home in the nursing home where they are going to stay. Now the Party for Animals indicated in the first term that the possibility to bring pets to the nursing home has a lot of positive effects for the residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	It drives away the loneliness. People have something to talk about again. A lot of research has also...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	I said yes because I know that you raised this in your first term. So I assume, also to spare you interruptions, that you will...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	The question is clear, and the plea is also justified, Mr President. I also answered this in the written set with answers to questions. In short: yes, that is a very sensible thought. A lot of nursing homes also make that switch from a more medical model, in which they didn't really have to have a lot of pets inside, to a much more domestic model, that basically continues the normal lives of people as much as possible. Animals can indeed be part of this. But what I want to fit in for is to establish here, from the Chamber, by regulation: you will accept pets. I don't think we should. In every institution you have a client council. It is very good to have the conversation there: how could we accommodate it as much as possible? Again, it is actually happening in a lot of institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	Research has indeed shown that about three quarters of healthcare institutions see opportunities for bringing a pet to the care facility. But what the Party for Animals also means is that it also reduces the cost of care. Many studies show that people who have dementia feel more alert thanks to pets, are less needy and have fewer care questions. For example, if there are two cats in the department, it has very positive effects. You can also really see that it reduces the cost of care and that people feel better and less lonely. Does the Minister not see that the government also has a task to encourage this, to actively promote it in the care homes and in the institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	Well, it's very fast jumps to use pets to reduce the cost of care. I wouldn't make that connection very quickly myself. Nevertheless, if you want to shape nursing home care in a homely setting, a setting that feels as much as at home as possible, then pets belong to it. In the context of the improvements that nursing care itself has to deal with, I am sure that this issue can also be addressed and at least addressed by, for example, client councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Arissen. We've agreed six interruptions per group in two. I want to enter into the experiment with you. Six interruptions in two means 12 questions. I keep track of all that. One time you get to three times in a row you have to decide for yourself and the other time. I want to keep that flexibility in. Then you'll know. You are talking about whether or not you want to ask a question, Mrs Arissen. Then Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Loving and good care that feels as much as at home as possible. We must achieve this with regard to the VVD, including the commitment of the 2 billion. I therefore agree with the Minister that the first step for next year is a serious first step: five additional staff per location, if I follow his calculations. Of course, that takes a lot of pressure off the kettle. But I also heard the Minister say that the euros should end up in the right place. I believe that loving and good care requires more than just euros that end up in the right place. We are going to hire additional people, but we also want a change, a quality stroke in care and in the way we provide care. That already happens in a number of places, but it can be even better. We must also keep ambition. I've heard you say all that. How do you see, also through the healthcare offices and the inspection, that innovation, that change for you in the way we provide that personalised care? That remains a bit abstract for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	I told you, I'm coming in the first quarter with an improvement approach to nursing care. I think I can give Mrs Hermans the most concrete answer at the time. I still have to make all the arrangements with the sector, so that is my comment. But if I'm out loud about that right now, I'd say it starts at the level of the individual location. That is where the improvement must become noticeable and palpable for people and thus be put into action. This means that the improvement approach must be formulated there. A little higher, at the level of the institution, is required under the quality framework to produce a quality plan and a quality report. Those two things must be congruent. I want an improvement approach that will ensure that the people of the institution, those in charge of that mirror, are also held up. To develop that mirror in a good way, we develop that national benchmark. It is part of that mirror up to the level of the location, at the level of the setting. So we are going to be as close to the implementation practice as possible. Afterwards, other institutions, such as health care agencies, are going to do their purchasing more than in the past along the line of quality. The inspection also raises the bar, of course, on the basis of the new quality framework. At many different levels, we have a task to do. We will also have to work at many different levels at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	I have two further questions. Is that benchmark going to be public for the whole sector without me sharing what Mrs Dik-Faber also said just becoming a checkout tool? No, it's not! I very much believe that when you make that public, you can also hang out with each other. The second is: what could the health offices do to bring about innovation at the level of the institution and even more so at the level of the location?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	I know what Mrs Hermans is saying, and yes, that benchmark must be public. If it's public, clients and more often family members, I think, can make a choice on the basis of that information for the house that suits them best. Of course you're gonna look there, too, like you're gonna pick out a school. You're gonna check it out. That's the most important thing. You're gonna have a conversation. That's the most important thing. You hear about a house like this. That's what it's all about in the first place. But you also want to know what is actually going on there with customer and employee satisfaction, for example. Those are important pictures of the story of a house if you have to choose one. So I think that information should be public, but no Ranking the Stars, no AD Oil Bolls Test when it comes to our nursing homes. We are not going to do that, because it does not do justice to the complex reality of institutions. That does not do justice to the fact that care is not a cookie factory. You can't just say something about the quality of care on the basis of hard indicators. The story is always richer and bigger than you can picture on the basis of indicators, but they do help. It's pictures of the story. In this way, I would like to make them as transparent as possible. It's always hard to see innovation as something special. Yes, we need innovation. A great deal of innovation is needed, including in nursing care but actually in all sectors of care. There is also a lot of innovation happening, but if we separate innovation and reward it separately, then it will remain of those projects. It is precisely the innovation that is needed that affects all the people in the sector: the people who work there and the people who receive care. So I believe that innovation should be an integral part of the improvement plans up to the level of the individual location. So with innovation jars and innovation projects, I would honestly be a little reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	Clear. I am strict when it comes to short interruptions, but that also applies to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	Point duties, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	I actually wanted to continue with Mrs Hermans' question, because I still missed an answer. She asked how we encourage the health offices to buy in on quality. In my opinion, one of the major challenges in the coming years is to ensure that quality is bought in in long-term care and to reward healthcare agencies for that. My question is this: there is now a pilot on personal funding in long-term care. This could be a very good example to promote innovation and quality procurement. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	We are going to look again for a change in the system, if only in a change in the system on the part of the funding. Of course we follow that pilot with a lot of interest, but personal funding is not the answer to all our questions. What is more important here is that we opt for a healthcare office that purchases much more on quality than on availability. That really means a different way of buying in. We will really have to improve this with the health care offices and with the health insurance companies, which are responsible for these health care offices. We will have to move together so that the quality is at the heart of the procurement process. You are asking me very specifically what will be in the improvement plan that you will receive in March. I think it would be best if we discussed that improvement plan in March so that I can make that plan with those health offices. But this is the direction: the bar up when it comes to quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	We fully agree on the objective, but I also think that we should be realistic: there will have to be incentives in the system that will make it attractive for healthcare agencies to buy in on quality. We're missing those incentives now. We are already seeing some very good first results in the subsequent funding, because new initiatives are emerging which address patients' needs more closely. That's what that next person pays for. Does the Minister already see any other incentives? Because how are we going to make this concrete and how are we going to make sure that the healthcare agencies are actually buying on quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	Look, incentives in funding as the way to change see, I know people who would call that "economicism." So I don't know if we should. What I really want is peace in funding, where I would like to put all this action into the substance. I believe that this is a faster way to change and to deploy healthcare agencies than to try through the line of all kinds of new forms of funding. But let's continue the debate in March. I'm always willing to let a good idea convince me. I'm not wearing this, but I think another way is a faster one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	Then I suggest that you continue, because you have been working for almost an hour now, and I see that there are still a lot of topics on your list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this encouragement. Time flies, huh? Several people have asked for sufficient attention to care at home. Because it's not just nursing care: 91% of our elders live at home. In the pact for care for the elderly, care at home is therefore also an important element. Of course, what we need to be aware of is that there is plenty of community care. That's very important in that care at home. What we need to pay sufficient attention to is the connection between what municipalities do in that care support at home and what the health insurance companies do and also from the Wlz to care at home. I shall now turn to the concern trap that may be raised by a number of people. We need to get enough first-line beds. There will be considerable additional money going into crisis care in the coming period, which is discussed in the Manifest Ageing. Mrs Bergkamp asked for a multiannual review of what is needed in care at home. Look, for this cabinet period, it's just a financial arrangement. So the finances aren't our concern. It is in the implementation of care at home, where a lot of improvement is possible, both in the relationship between care at home and the different laws and the different points of contact as well as in relation to living, where there is also a world to be won. But finance is not necessarily our biggest issue. Of course it will be for the coming period, because the number of older people is growing enormously. If you want to continue to finance this and continue to support it in a good way, innovation, a different organisation of care at home and a different combination of care and living are needed. We certainly haven't thought about that yet. But I would actually like to do it in two steps. I would actually like me to be able to handle the conversation with you on the basis of a home care programme, a longer home programme, which results from the pact on care for the elderly that I intend to conclude in the first months of 2018. Then you asked for a multiannual reconnaissance. I'd like to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	A slightly longer interruption, but I promise the other interruptions will remain brief. I am pleased that the Minister is coming up with a multiannual plan and taking all the relevant aspects into account. But I would like to read something on behalf of a district nurse to indicate that we can do a lot in the short term to make work more attractive and to address the bottlenecks in the labour market. I'll read it to you very briefly, Mr. Chairman. "I've been working as a nurse in care for the elderly for years, but haven't experienced such a shortage of staff since I worked as a district nurse before. A large part of our services are filled by invaders. Fixed personnel are all working structuralally overtime. Patient stops are the order of the day. And the hours we have, we've lost a large part of it to account for every peak to the health insurance company. The health insurance company says if you deliver 4% less care to that one patient, you get a higher hourly rate. Excuse me? Who's someone at the office to take over this job from me as district nurse? Municipalities that say: the gentleman should go to the nursing home with an application for an adjustment at home, with which the gentleman can still live very well at home and also very much wants to live. But in a nursing home, the municipality doesn't have to pay for it anymore."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	This is a really long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	My question to the Minister is: if we want to do something about this, we need to do something about the regulatory burden and we also need to do something about the perverse incentives. I think all this can be done in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	I can only support this very much. That is indeed for the short term. Your question was about the longer term. about exploring what is needed, both content and financial, to continue to support a larger group that lives longer at home. That is one side of the matter, but in the short term, of course, there is a lot of work to be done. There the assignment is not so much financial; there is plenty of money. But there is, of course, a substantive task: reducing the administrative burden and also providing enough people. Last week we had a wide-ranging discussion on the labour market. I do not want to repeat what I said there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	Don't repeat, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	'Cause if I didn't, I'd be in trouble with the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	That is the last thing you want in the first budget debate, but there will soon be a block of 'administrative burdens'. Maybe I can answer those questions in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	That is what the Minister is going to come back to, even though he could answer the question now. But let me ask you another question. I liked it very much that the Minister said that in a year's time the elderly will have to notice that things have improved. I thought that was very ambitious, but it was a real ambition. Can the Minister also promise that in a year's time this district nurse or the district nurse will also notice that the regulatory burden has been reduced and that she will no longer suffer from these perverse incentives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	I would very much like to say yes and I am going to say yes, but only under a number of conditions, namely that the district care itself puts on the table in sufficient detail what needs to be done differently and better. Last week, we discussed this very extensively on the basis of the great action of the V&VN, More care, less paper. On this basis, we have drawn up a very concrete list of ten points which must be resolved in the spring. That's what we do with the NZa, with the health offices and with the health insurance companies. So we are going to work together to get rid of these rules one by one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	Then I suggest you move on now. I see Mrs Bergkamp standing. Were you going to say one last sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	Was that the only condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	I had one more sentence to add. My answer to the question whether she is going to notice it is: yes, she will notice if all parties do what can be expected of them in reducing administrative burdens. We will also come up with a programme on this point, but I will explain this later in the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	We're going to something that's been brought in by several groups. Among other things, the Christian Union has asked a question about this, but Mrs Agema and Mrs Kooiman have also underlined this. You can see that living and caring at the moment sometimes don't relate well to each other. The nursing homes are gone. Care at home is what people want as long as possible, but sometimes it just doesn't really work at home anymore and an institution is still far away and actually not really necessary. What you need are forms of living and caring that are actually a bit between home and an institution. That's how I saw Mrs. Kooiman's plan. The housing needs are diverse; they have actually become increasingly diverse. What we need to try is actually to provide for this variety of living needs. So this is part of the program Langer at home, which we want to make, the program Care at home. The care neighborhood... I have to say: the health care community house, which was the joke of the information department, is in my opinion just a very nice idea. So I think we have exactly the same objective in mind. We actually also see housing that is quite similar, for example the Innkeeper, Daily Life and Together Home in Gemert. Those are, in fact, very similar to what Mrs Kooiman describes, but you are actually advocating a reform of the system to get there, in order to get there. I honestly don't think that's necessary at all. You say that we should actually develop other access criteria for the Wlz and that these access criteria should be put on the spot. If you did all that, you'd be years away before you could take a step. I should like to say that we know that a number of institutions are already organising this. They seem to have a business model or form of financing underneath that works. Let's learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	Have you completed this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Yes. No, excuse me, I have one more point. But I am ready with Mrs Kooiman's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	In any case, I am pleased that the communication department understands the SP joke, but I am a little disappointed by the Minister's answer, because the SP has done serious work with all professors, scientists and members of the board. Even a former Secretary of State of your color worked on this plan. We are putting forward proposals which could be included in these legislative possibilities, and we are proposing a number of situations that would help. It would help me if the Minister said: we are going to take a serious look at this, we are going to try to take bumps away and we are going to talk to these people to see how we can fix this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	I think I can take away Mrs Kooiman's disappointment, because I am not saying that we are not going to look at it. I think it's an interesting idea. On the contrary, I believe that the substance is entirely in line with what a lot of people really want. Those will also be people you spoke to. But why such a complicated way to get there? Because it's possible. There are parties in the field that are already showing that it can be done. I think we should learn from that. So let's find a more practical and faster way to get there. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	This is a lot more positive. I must say, however, that the Minister has read half of the plan, because we are also making proposals that could now be made. But there are obstacles. If the Minister still wants to take a good look at that and come back to it in his plan, if possible before the summer, then we are very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm going to make a very practical proposal. Somewhere in the first half of next year, we are discussing the Langer programme at home, which will result from the pact for care for the elderly. I want to look at those institutions that are already showing that something like you have in mind can actually be done with the current law and funding. Let us learn from these institutions. Let's take a good look at that business model and see how we can also spread that example more widely in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	Your fourth question, Mrs. Kooiman. Your fifth, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	The fifth question is correct. It is true that there are many good examples. We also mentioned them in our plan. However, these opportunities are often only available for people with a more filled scholarship. We want to make it available to everyone, so that everyone in their own neighborhood can live in this kind of way and live in their old age. I would therefore very much like the Minister to look at this and not close his eyes to the possibilities of combining certain financial flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	Be careful what you wish for. Because that could take an incredibly long time, and I don't think you want it at all. You want to see the example you have outlined quickly in practice. So do I, so let's try to get that done. I'll get back to you on that. Then I'll go on to the nursing home. Many people have broken a lance for the carers, and that is right. Carers deserve good care support. For a lot of people in need, carers are the reason they keep it up. And for a lot of carers, it doesn't really feel like family care. Some people don't even know that the word exists, but that it's completely normal. Fortunately, a lot of carers are doing well. They get satisfaction from being there for others. But that doesn't apply to every caregiver. Some carers have it really hard, too heavy. Then there is a lot of support arranged in different municipalities, but that is often not very easy to find. We just have work to do there. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that there would be an impetus of 10 million, to improve support for carers and to make them better known and to use respite care and day care better and more focused. I'd like to talk to the field about that. How could we do this better and more concretely? I'd like to work on that. Mr. Chairman. Then the care trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	I have one more question about the caretaker. You write in the answer that the caregiver has a position within the Wmo and within the Wlz. We are not just concerned that the caretaker in the Wmo has a legally anchored position. It more or less indicates: is there a caregiver? What we were talking about in the questions is: what can this caretaker do? Is that gonna get a place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	There's a place there, of course. If you have a good indication, it has a place. It's the question you're asking, legally speaking. The municipality has a compensation obligation in the care from the Wmo. What you as a government have to compensate for what people can't do anymore, of course depends on what the caregiver can or can't do. So, of course, the caregiver is involved in a good kitchen table call. This applies to care from the municipality. With the Zvw and with the Wlz you must of course also take into account what carers can do in the scope of the care that is being arranged. I therefore believe that we should not, in fact, regulate things so much in a formal sense, but above all from the point of view of content. How do carers know where to go for what type of support if they need more support after that indication has been agreed? That's one side of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'm sorry to interrupt, but you've been at it for almost an hour. There are two other leaders who must also have their answers. So I'm gonna be a little strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	I am fine with it, Mr President, but I had the feeling that if a question is asked, I will answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	Yeah, but that can also be short. I'm going to see Mr Slootweg. Were you done with your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	I am actually curious about the follow-up to the Minister's reply. I hope he can explain. We really believe that there should be a formal position in which the caregiver can indicate how many hours he can take. I haven't quite listened to that yet. That's where the overload is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	The second part is where we have work to do. That is in the places where some care is delivered from the Zvw and part from the Wmo. Then I actually mean situations where care is delivered mainly from the Zvw, not so much from the Wmo. How, then, can we ensure that the care provider can continue to claim support from the municipality? That might be the hardest puzzle we're gonna have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	Let me make a procedural remark. You say that there should be three directors and that they should all be brief. I fully agree with you and I am the last person who wants to sit in your seat, but I think it is important that we can have the debate here. Mrs Agema pointed out that sometimes the answers could have been given a little more. They're also new rulers. Of the previous people we knew exactly where they stood and how they thought about it, but of course we don't have that very sharp now either. I'd like to ask you to give me some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	That's right. I am happy to do so, but it is important that not many examples are mentioned, for example. One example is often enough. Otherwise, it'll just take a lot of time. I know the Minister would like to tell you what his plans are, and I would love to give him room for that, but we are also all responsible for dealing with time a little sparingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	I see it all as encouragement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	Now you're afraid to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	I just see it all as encouragement. I'll get on with it. Around the theme "Longer living at home" and then we're done with that too. I'll come to the care trap. A number of groups have raised these issues, including Mrs Dijksma. That concern is referred to as the situation of passing from one law to another, i.e. from the Wmo/Zvw combination of care, which Mr Slootweg was already talking about, to the Wlz. This then leads to less concern and sometimes to a higher own contribution. Then there is a double crisis of concern, as Mr Slootweg called it. We think we know that this is not the case for a very large group. It is especially important for the group with a modular package at home. So it doesn't apply to all people who get support from the Wlz home. Getting home support from the Wlz is precisely a conscious choice made by the legislator in the previous period. Otherwise, it would mean that the Wlz should only apply to nursing homes, as suggested by the professor in De Monitor. I think it's been a conscious choice, including in this house, not to. At the same time, I think it is a serious issue, because it is not good to explain to people that more intensive care is actually needed, but that it is less offered and therefore the bill can be even higher. This means that we will first work out Mrs Ellemeet's previous motion for a resolution in the coming period. This requires an analysis of the use of care at home from the Wlz and from the Zvw. That's one step. I very much agree with anyone who actually wants more than that, not only an analysis, but also proposes a possible solution, without throwing all the laws that we have passed over the previous period back on its head. As a follow-up, I would therefore like to explore the possible measures to prevent this crisis of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	That's good news. That was indeed already stated in the written reply. I'm happy about that. I do not think that the legislator has intended this to be the side effect in some situations. My question is, when is that reconnaissance gonna be ready? Can you move on to action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	That's like a hink-step-jump. It is not an easy issue. If it had been easy, I would have said in the answer: that's how we're gonna solve it and here's the group. First you need to know which group it is, in which situations it is problematic and in which situations it is simply soluble. So I guess we're really working on that for a while. Let me say: for the summer of next year, because that is what you want. But we really need to study on that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	I was actually hoping for March 1st next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	I'm not gonna promise that. I am always from 'fast work', but I know that this is a complicated issue, otherwise we would have solved it already. It is not the first time that this has been shown. Mrs Ellemeet has already mentioned this in a debate. It has also been discussed before in the Chamber. So it's not easy. It's hard. We don't know what numbers they're talking about either. This also makes it difficult to calculate what the different solutions cost. So March 1st, I'm not gonna promise, but if it can, I'm not gonna let it go. So we're just gonna get to work hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr President, the last small point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	Look, I don't blame this minister. But the fact that Mrs Ellemeet has already drawn attention to this indicates that the department could have already started working on it. Could you at least indicate a route at any time just after the ceremony? When do you think it will be ready for the next action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	No misunderstanding: the department is working on it and that's why I know it's not that easy, but rather quite complex. That's one. Two. Yes, I can certainly indicate, for example in January, when. I can certainly do that. Then we'll have a moment to plan the route properly. So I'd like to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. The theme of loneliness is actually the third major task when it comes to the elderly. I've now had the block of "older care." This issue has been mentioned by a number of political groups. I'd like to work out that approach with people and parties in the field. And that is where I come in the spring with this approach; I hope in the first quarter. Mrs Agema made the interesting suggestion to see if we should want to visit all 80-plussers, just to ask how they are doing and see if they might need extra care and support. That too is a form of helping people to live longer at home and above all a way to break loneliness. You can't do that all the time, but you can do it all the time. In Rotterdam I have gained experience with this with 75-plussers. I don't know if the age should be 75 or 80. Maybe that can vary from one municipality to another. I do not want to impose Hague's dictation in the sense of: the whole of the Netherlands must do as Rotterdam did. I don't think that's a good idea. But I do like to talk to congregations. I also know that many municipalities are interested in developing such an approach. I like to talk to congregations to see how I can excite them to actually visit very focused people, because I know this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	That's a positive sound. I have tabled an amendment on this earlier. This was not supported by the previous Secretary of State. This minister is a lot more positive, so I'm going to make a motion, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	I look forward to that. Moreover, I do not even need a motion for encouragement. Let me add that to that. I'm going to "living with a disability," the next block. Several MPs have commented on the implementation of the UN Convention. The CDA did. D66 has done so and the SGP has done so. The ratification of that treaty has, of course, been an incredibly important milestone towards a more inclusive society. People with disabilities, like you and I, want to control their own lives as much as possible. They want to participate on an equal footing with society and not be treated specifically or differently. Sometimes it's about little things, like a threshold. Sometimes it's about something big, like: are we even part of it? Then why should people with disabilities feel that they should always ask for favors to fit in? This increases the feeling of dependence, which is what people do not want. So it is up to us to take concrete steps in the coming period to implement that UN Convention. Mr Van der Staaij asked about this. That is where our task lies. We must ensure that people with disabilities can participate fully. We need to ensure that society is truly felt as more inclusive by them. An implementation plan has already been drawn up together with the Alliance, the VNG and VNO-NCW. That is a good start, but I think we need to take some firmer steps in the coming years. I would like to discuss this with them, taking into account the main themes of that treaty, namely awareness, participation and accessibility. I would like to come back to you in the first half of next year with information on how we can speed up, concreteise and strengthen those steps. Then we can have the debate on that further. This is actually the side of society: how can society be more receptive to people with disabilities and actually allow people with disabilities to participate? There is also the institution side, the disability care. There too, it is possible to take steps. There is a quality disability care agenda. I think it's very good that the quality agenda is here. A number of questions have been asked. Mrs Hermans asked how we are going to proceed with the innovation that is included in the quality agenda. Mrs Bergkamp asked about the state of play of achieving more tailor-made work for children and adults with disabilities. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the state of play of the working group on multi-complex children with disabilities. I will begin with the quality disability care agenda. There are a number of challenges that I would like to discuss with the sector in a more firm and concrete way, for example in the area of the labour market. How do we ensure adequate and appropriately trained people in this sector? There is a lot of competition between the different healthcare sectors. This is what disability care really has a specific task to do. The second challenge is the reduction of administrative burdens. We also have real work to do in this area, including in the disabled sector. The third is to stimulate and facilitate innovation in the sector. I would like to take a step further on these three issues in relation to the quality agenda. I would like to talk to the sector about this and then come back with the plans in the first half of next year. Then I come to the other questions that have been asked, about achieving more customization for children. I think we're getting a better picture of how we can do that. We are getting a better picture for which group this is actually necessary. In the short term, I would like to make a particular choice. It is about 3% that actually does not fit in with the current healthcare profiles. We know that again from the working group mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber. I think it should be possible for us to do some puzzles there at the moment in order, within the arrangements we have, to see how we can better operate that 3% with customization. I really want to be able to think better about whether the whole group needs to be completed. Then I will come forward with a proposal in your direction, so that we can discuss it better. But I do not want to wait for it to be done better for that small group than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	I have read the answer and, frankly, I am disappointed. This is not a short-term thing. A motion for a resolution was adopted in 2014. We're gonna try some things now. In 2019 there may be an evaluation and then we will see if we can change the indication. In my opinion, the 2014 motion was clear: we are going to see if the indication can be more customized. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to show more ambition, also looking at the motion that was adopted years ago. It is important for these people that there is more customization for funding and indicating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	I get that. That is exactly what I see as my task, namely to do it as quickly as possible. That pace you mention is very important. Since we want to do this, it's my line that we're not gonna dictate it for the whole group with customization. That really means a change in the law. Then no one noticed before 2020 that we want to make it easier for this group. I would like the fastest way for the group for which the problem is the biggest. This means that I specifically address a number of arrangements for them. That was your motion from 2014. By the way, I started last October 26th, so... But that is indeed what we have to do first. Then we will see if this also requires an adjustment in the context of customization for the whole group. But first, the first blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	I realize that the Minister has just begun, but if he states in his letter that this subject is going to take a very long time, then I would like to appeal to him for that ambition. I understand that the Minister wants to achieve a number of things in the short term for this group of people who have been waiting for a very long time. I appreciate that, but I'd like to challenge him to look at the advice that has already been submitted by the NZa and the Zorginstituut to also look at a bill on indication. Apparently, that's necessary. In the short term, therefore, it is fine to realize a number of things so that people quickly experience the improvement, but then I think that in the long term there should also be a legislative proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	Sure, but the NZa says: don't throw everything over but just solve what's the biggest problem for indeed not a whole group of people. For that, too, you will indeed have to change a number of regulations. That's exactly the point. If I could've done it with a fingernip, we'd have had it done in January. Only that is not the case. You will have to change a number of regulations, even if we first make the short blow and want to come up with the solution for a small group. But I'm gonna do it differently, Mr President, I'm just gonna give you a letter stating what we can do in the short term, how short that period is and what we're gonna have to do in the longer term and what steps we're gonna have to take. Then you will also know where you stand and, more importantly, the people who are involved will know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, that was the "living with a disability" block. Then I move on to the "cost of care" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	I had a few more questions about the last block. In my first term, I indicated that people with a disability who live at home regularly have to deal with re-indications, while it is clear that they have a permanent limitation. So these re-indications don't make any sense. Unfortunately, the written answer to my question referred to the Wlz, while people at home of course have to do with the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act. So I would like an answer to that. Will the Minister look at how we can put an end to unnecessary re-indications and also the large number of points of contact these people face? Their request for care is often very fragmented. If we want to make it possible for people with disabilities to be able to participate easily in society, this is a task that lies with this minister and with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think Mrs Ellemeet is a very generic pointer to the problem. Which people with what limitations are involved in this analysis? We should not say that there is a great deal of unnecessary repetition of everything. It happens, by the way, but not so much in the Wlz domain, because the re-indication will mainly have to do with situations where more care is needed. From the compensation of the Wmo it is good to see what people can take control of themselves. So an indication of eternity, as given under the AWBZ, is precisely something we should not do anymore; that is not wise. At the same time: you help no one by coming by about once in the year or once in the six months. That's really too much and too intense. Whatever you can do is dictate step by step. Municipalities are also developing in this area. I honestly do not know whether so much national action is needed on this point. The question about the counters is mainly related to the question about customer support. How better to take clients by hand, especially when they have a complicated care question? This is certainly true in the case of, for example, the point of contact for social affairs and the point of contact for care. This does not automatically come together in municipalities. Client support can really help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	There is a clear signal from the field that many people with disabilities are indeed going to have to look at who exactly is going to have to apply again and again for a tool, while they are blind and remain blind. It's crazy, isn't it, that they're gonna be re-measured? I know what the Minister's saying. We have to look precisely at who it is, but it is important to take stock of this and see how we can deliver care more tailor-made, which may also mean that we are part of those indications.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u121	Now you are walking very quickly, when you say that there is an issue that focuses on people who seem to have a physical limitation, which involves re-indication. Let's look at that, then, and analyse exactly what the problem is. If that's what you're saying, I'd like to make that analysis with you. I do not think that should be the case, but let us first analyse with the interest groups and with the field, as you call it, what exactly are the obstacles. Then we discuss this with the municipalities and then see if there is indeed a need for additional steps. Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I'll just go to the "cost of care" block. I had really prepared an exuberant story about this, but I suspect that you are not necessarily waiting for it. Let me try compressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u122	Well... it's not about me, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u123	A little bit too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u124	Also, because a general complaint from Members of Parliament is that the written reply could actually have received a great deal and unfortunately it is not 100%. So in that sense it also has to do with the quality of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u125	You also have to leave something for the debate. Mr. Chairman. The cost of care. Can we continue to pay for care in the future with all of us? And can I actually pay my own bill for the coming years? That is a concern that not only the macro economists in the department have, but a concern that many people also express when they speak to the SCP about the question about which they are now worried about the future. Let us be clear, there will be a lot of extra money going to healthcare in the coming years. If you add that up in the estimates, we're going from 69 billion in net healthcare expenditure in 2017 to 82 billion in healthcare expenditure in 2021. Actually, that still distorts the image, because that would be a plus of 13. We have already assumed that 5 billion will be transferred to the Municipal Fund for municipal care. So basically, you could add that. So it's about 18 billion in the period 2017-2021. That's a 4% increase in healthcare costs. So where the real economy grows around 2% a year, this is 4% a year. I call that consciously because I have heard the Chamber express a number of concerns about what is going to be the accumulation of care costs for people and how we are going to combat them. The first thing I want to say is that it is therefore extremely important to control this increase in generic healthcare costs. We had a debate on the General Political Reviews, a debate on the Government Declaration, which dealt with the main agreements. Mr Bruins will go into these basic agreements a little more precisely later. But of course they are meant to control the rise in healthcare costs. This increase will be normal, because of the increasing number of elderly people, because of more opportunities in care. In fact, we should be extremely happy that we live in a country in which we can all pay with each other. But already the average contribution of an average adult is €5.514, 20% of gross income for many people; net that percentage is a lot more. So that's gonna go up a lot in the next few years. Then it is about the sum of Zvw premium, taxes, income-dependent own contribution and own payments in the Zvw, the Wmo and the Wlz. In this sum, people are already paying over €5,500. That's just gonna go up. So if you're asking how we can control these care costs for people individually, it's our first assignment to control the total cost of care together. The second point is that the cabinet has decided, and Mr Bruins will go into this in a little more detail in a moment, to freeze its own risk at €385 and its own payments for medicines at €250. In my view, this is an important contribution to controlling the cost of caring for people themselves. Another point is that we reduce our own contribution to long-term care for people who receive long-term care at home or live in an institution but have a partner who still lives at home. This is a measure which starts from 1 January. Then it is about 30,000 people, who save on average €150 per year. A year later, we're going to bring down the income adjustment in our own contribution significantly. So we are talking about a relief of hundreds to thousands of euros for people who need a lot of care per household. In the Wmo domain we opt for a subscription rate, so the income-dependent contribution no longer applies but a reduction for everyone. We're talking to the VNG and the CAK about exactly how we're going to implement that. I will come back to that, of course. What matters is that those are also the questions that have been asked, which is what this means for people. We have been asked whether we can calculate per household that people have to take into account, because people want to know. Firstly, of course, all these measures have very different effects for people. It has to do with how much they pay now, which is often income-dependent. It also has a lot to do with the extent of the care that one needs. You can do that now, but especially if you bring it down at a subscription rate, from a little bit to a lot of money. So I cannot say generically what these measures mean for people. However, for each measure we propose by means of a legislative amendment, I will give a clear picture of its impact on the accumulation of healthcare costs, to what extent they decrease and how the choices we make in the design of these measures work out in a number of situations. I would very much like to do that, because I do think it is important to bear that in mind. The cabinet has deliberately chosen to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs, as they put the most pressure on solidarity in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u126	I think that Netflix fare is the new cabinet's flagship. You still need to talk about this with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. You should, of course, also do so because you actually put half the account there. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u127	The loss of income, i.e. the income that municipalities miss, is the coverage contained in the coalition agreement. That's about right. What the discussion is about is what behavioral effects this has. That is what the discussion is about, and that is what the CPB is about. You will probably get that amount of the EUR 300 million. That is indeed the reason why we need to take a good look with the VNG at how we are going to implement this and in what context we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u128	The always crystal clear minister is now able to make me lose track. Is it so that you can answer yes or no that half of this idea, that Netflix tariff, should simply come from the budgets of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u129	Actually, here's the thing. The CPB has calculated that this measure costs 300 million. Grosso modo half of this has been calculated on the basis of the revenue lost for municipalities. The other half is an estimated behavioral effect that you might assume at the time you introduce this measure. But first of all, that behavioral effect is, of course, very difficult to predict in advance. Thus it always works with estimates in the care; hence the difference between estimates and results in a budget. The behavioural effect is therefore difficult to predict. Secondly, the behavioural effect is not entirely policy neutral, because you can also influence that behavioral effect, or not. That is what we are talking about with municipalities. I would like to say to Mrs Dijksma that, of course, we are also doing so in the context of the agreements we are going to conclude with the municipalities in the new year. Of course, we are also doing it in the context that we still see room within the financial arrangements for the municipalities, through the accres of the Municipal Fund, but also within the social domain and the budgets available there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u130	That accres has already been pounded with all kinds of beautiful ideals from the coalition chord. So my conclusion is that this wonderful idea, the Netflix tariff, should actually come out of the pots of the municipalities and that the Minister has no idea whether it will actually succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u131	I usually know Mrs Dijksma more than that. I think it will work, but we will of course have to discuss this with the municipalities. That makes sense. It's something you need to do together, so you need to talk to each other about it first. I've just outlined the context in which we're going to have that conversation, but we need to have it first. When we're out, I'll report it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u133	If we're not out of it, I'll report it, too, because you'll ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u134	The Minister quite rightly started this block by saying that a lot of people are afraid that they will no longer be able to pay or receive care in the future. But of course that is largely based on ghost stories, on the mantra that, if we do nothing, we lost half of our income to care in 2040. That mantra dominated the elections in 2012, but was withdrawn by the Central Planning Bureau. When we read a piece of the answer, we see that between 2012 and 2017, care did not grow by 4.4% per year, but by five times less: 0.8% per year. I find it very special that the Minister says again here: if we do nothing, healthcare costs will increase by EUR 18 billion until 2021. My question is: why does he create these stories again? Is that what he's hoping to get into the paper? Does he want to cut back on new things? Why is the Minister saying this? It's a news item when you say that in 2021, care grows by 18 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u135	That news item was already in the budget I found when I arrived, so that news item is not that exciting. It is simply a question of passing on the increase in healthcare costs. We get older together and we use more care with each other. I would like to put that in the right context. Most of the questions were about the accumulation of care costs, but I'd like to put it in context. If we want to control the cost of caring for people, we will have to control the cost of care as a whole. I see a budget based on an estimate of 4% increase in healthcare costs per year, while the economy will increase on average by 2% per year in the coming years. Then I think we have a huge assignment together, you and I, to control those care expenses. That's not about sketching gloomy images. I am not talking about 2040 and the prophecy that you may have lost 40% of your income to care and that the care will therefore become the cuckoo cub that will reduce all other expenses. That's not what I'm talking about. What I am talking about is the increase of 18 billion for this cabinet period alone. That is the size of the budgets of Defence, Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation together. That is such an incredibly large amount of money that I think we have an assignment with each other to control that increase in healthcare costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u136	There's really no one here in this house who would want to make the cost of care so serious. And that's why it never happens. What the Minister says is exactly the same as what was in the 2013 budget. It says: "Without further action, healthcare expenditure is expected to grow by 18 billion euros in the period 2012-2017 from over 64 billion euros to over 82 billion euros." And what do we see in the Autumn note: the net budget expenditure, the draft budget, amounts to EUR 68.5 billion. That's only 4.5 billion more and not 18 billion more. But a lot of people have been scared. They think they don't get care anymore, who think they can't afford care on the basis of these ghost stories that are never realized. And we're all gonna get back to work here. And we're gonna make sure we control care costs in much more creative ways than last time. My question is to stop with these ghost stories. It scares people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u137	I honestly do not quite understand the point Mrs Agema is trying to make here. There are estimates in the budget for the increase in healthcare costs. I think you expect us to make estimates of how healthcare costs are going to increase. Estimates are not budget ceilings that all institutions have to comply with, so we don't have to scare anyone at all. Estimates are simply passing on what you, given the right to care, given the compensation obligation for the municipalities and given the demographic development, expect for the coming years to increase care costs. This is reflected in the budget. At the same time, this cabinet is instructing itself not to allow this to happen as a whole, but to say: could we please do a little less, namely 1.9 billion on the total increase in the cure through these basic agreements? Could we do that? That's the assignment we're giving ourselves. If you say "make that mission bigger," I think we will respond with: we do not think that is entirely feasible. But I'd be happy to invite you to that. What we are doing now is displaying the estimate of the increase in healthcare costs as made by the Central Planning Office. My message is next. If we want to control the cost of care and its accumulation for individual people who are indeed concerned, we will have to be prepared to control the overall increase in healthcare costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u138	My point is that people are afraid of the stories about rising healthcare costs and that those stories never come true. I simply have proof of that in my hand, namely the 2013 Budget and the 2017 Autumn Note: instead of plus 18 billion it was plus 4.5 billion. That's a sip on one less drink. People get scared. They think that in the end they won't get any care and that they'll eventually lose an incredible amount of money from their income to care. They think it's gonna be priceless. My point is, will you stop doing that? No one in the House of Representatives will increase healthcare costs by 4% a year in the coming period, no one at all. So I would say: go to work and make sure with the Chamber that we do everything we can not let the costs of care get out of hand in a normal way, so without deletion. But stop ghost stories that scare people!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u139	In principle, Mrs Agema congratulates the previous cabinet; I do not know if she meant that way. Indeed, since then, the increase has fallen sharply, as major agreements were reached at that time. Minister Schippers did that in a wonderful way, I think. As a result, the increases in healthcare costs have indeed been limited to around 1% per year. So that was the result of policy, and that is exactly what this cabinet chooses. It chooses to continue that choice. The result of policy is estimated at 1.9 billion compared to the otherwise estimated cost of care. That's our argument with the CPB, which is wondering if we're actually going to make it. We also think it is very ambitious, but we are going to try. My point is that we will have to do the same, precisely in order to prevent people from having to worry about the care bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u140	This is your tenth question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll have two more for the other rulers later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u142	Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u143	We did not oppose Schippers' macro-management tools. If they've had such a big yield, so be it. But we do agree with the CPB's statement that it is difficult to continue in that vein. We still hope that all the plans that exist in the Chamber, for example to make long-term care perhaps a quarter cheaper without anyone losing their care, will be able to rely on a little more support. That is actually my question: do not let the costs of care go up, and do so by picking up good ideas from the Chamber so that people do not lose their care to control the costs of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u144	I'm going to see Mrs. Arissen, if you don't mind. But the Minister can respond, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u145	I think we actually agree on this point. I look forward to your proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u146	That's good to hear. Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u147	The Minister states that he wants to avoid the accumulation of healthcare costs. Of course, the Party for Animals warmly welcomes this. In my contribution I mentioned the accumulation of healthcare costs partly because of the pharmacy advice costs which are re-charged by the pharmacy for each new medicine. This happens not only with new medicines but also with medicines that have been in use for a long time. But I see the minister points to the other ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u148	Yes. It's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u149	Medical care. That's my colleague Bruno Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u150	Then I'll hold off on my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u151	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u152	Then I move on to the next block: "administrative burdens." Many things have been said about this, and I actually agree with everything that has been said about it. So maybe I can just keep this block really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u153	You learn very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u154	Yeah, a huge learning curve here today. Professionals just spend way too much time on paper. That's at the expense of care. All the initiatives taken by the various sectors will be embraced by the three of us. All the initiatives you take will also be embraced by us, if they are good ideas in any case. In the first quarter of 2018, the three of us will come up with a programme to reduce administrative burdens. In the sectors where administrative burdens are the biggest problem, we will also present a sectoral approach plan that we are working on together with that sector. But we're not gonna wait until the plan's finished, we're not gonna wait for the paper to be scraped. We are going with very concrete ideas that are already there in the sector, and you added a number of them to the AO Labour market policy in healthcare last week. Then I go on to the block "medical-ethical."..
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u155	There I am again, Mr President, and again with last night's response, because this is a really different story. Last night I received the answer on the following point: add the indications, zzp 4 to 9/10, which give access to the Wlz, together to one package. People only stay there on average for eight months. In those eight months, that administration is constantly being trampled to apply for a higher package. And what do I get in answer? "I like that there are different rates for differentzzp's." Nothing good can be picked up from the Chamber to reduce the administrative burden! Just keep up the way the madness is right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u156	I'm just looking for the genius answer from last night. Because there was more to it than this. One. The first half of that brilliant answer was that we do think that there is a certain variety in intensity of care. If you knock all that down, you're gonna cause big financial problems for institutions. That's what the NZa advised us to do. Two. In any case, we are investigating the classification in thezzp's, including the classification in the tariff setting. If there are possibilities for simplification, I am more than willing to explore those possibilities. Or is that actually going to be a one-zp fare? I'm giving off the profit warning that I don't think it's gonna be. I would like a different and less bureaucratic pricing in the Wlz, in any case when it comes to the indication. We have had great experiences with nursing homes that themselves give the indication, which is then subsequently tested by the CIZ. We have experimented with this and this has proved to be a successful experiment with less administrative burdens for employees and also for family. I'd like to get on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u157	Well, that's what we came up with. It's finally gonna come sometime. Anyway, that answer about thezzp's isn't brilliant at all. That's a "I shouldn't" answer. Really, that's just a "I don't like" answer: I like that there are rates for the differentzzp's, we're not gonna do anything with it. People only live eight months, the last eight months of their lives, in a nursing home. They almost come in dead, almost blind, bedridden, and there's all kinds of paperwork to get them to go through a couple ofzzp's in those last eight months. This minister says I don't want one rate. Those are the ideas he needs to pick up, which he needs to get out of the Chamber and carry out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u158	In my view, the argument was slightly richer than the one Mrs Agema is doing right now. That's okay. Let us resume this discussion at the moment when I come back to the Chamber about the investigation that the NZa is doing into the pricing and recalibratement of the variouszzp's. That'll be next year. Then I would like to resume this discussion. When it comes to reducing the administrative burden, Mrs Agema and I are pulling in together. But when it comes to getting the variety from the different rates and the impact that that can have on, for example, the financing of an institution, I think we should think twice, three or four times before we make that choice. Otherwise, we will put institutions in financial trouble, and you do not want to. We both want simplification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u160	It's not about the NZa being satisfied. The point is that the people in the field who have to apply for and administer all these newzzp's every time are satisfied. They think we've all gone crazy here. For those people, we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mrs. Agema pretends there's a huge fraternity. I don't think there is. I am already working on simplifying the indication. We've had that experiment. We now need to turn that into a new way of indicating. That's how we're gonna do it. This means that institutions can give the indication themselves and that it is subsequently reviewed by the CIZ. This is a lot less bureaucratic and makes people very much happier, as the pilot has shown. So that's exactly what we're doing. You say take away that whole distinction betweenzzp's and beat that fare down, so make an average rate. That's only interesting for a very large institution. So I am not trying to please the NZa, but I would like to listen carefully to sensible advice she gives. The sensible advice on this point is: if you do so, it will benefit large institutions that have equally divided all types ofzzp's within the institution. But if, for example, institutions that have highzzp's and lowzzp's would then face an average rate, then those institutions would face financial problems. In the end, the people in the care sector suffer most from this. In short, we have to think twice or three times about every proposal we make here. But again, we're gonna get back to that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u162	Is the Minister prepared to look at the way the care money is now being distributed? Thanks to the quality framework, we now have the system that extra money now more or less automatically goes to nursing care, but not to community care. Does the Minister still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u163	In fact, it is regulated in the same way in all sectors. The standard setting from the point of view of practice, from the point of view of the profession, leads to a tariff setting from the NZa or otherwise. It then leads to the estimate in the budget. This is actually the case in all sectors. Only, what was different here than usual is that the sector did not initially set up the quality framework here. So that had to be done by the Healthcare Institute, so the checks-and-balances were a bit lost. There was no financier who said: ho, ho, watch out, this is going to cost us too much money! But the financiers are really you, that we are here with each other. It was necessary to invest a lot more in nursing care. I do agree with Mr Van der Staaij that there should be a political weighting somewhere in the process as it is now arranged. I believe that all the groups agree. That is what I am going to propose to the Chamber in the coming year. I'd like to think about how that's gonna take shape. At the moment, an interdepartmental administrative study group is looking at how best to do that, because it is a fairly fundamental change. Unlike in all other sectors, professional standards are really created here entirely from the professionals themselves. So a political weighting somewhere in that process should not want to restrict that professional space, but we do have to choose in scarcity. Politics is choosing in scarcity. We must enable ourselves to do so. In that balance, I want to come up with a proposal for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u164	Fine. We'd like to wait for that proposal. My question is whether the Minister would like to include what I read in Medical Contact from an economist who was involved. He said: if this was the quality framework for care for the elderly rather than a quality framework for nursing home care, then perhaps more money would have been rolled into community care or home care. I am not saying that it is, but at least I am asking for those criticisms to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u165	I get that. There are more people who say: can the budget in the budgetary estimate that emerged from the quality framework go a little towards home care? I have two reactions to that. One: no, because the estimate of 2 billion is really linked to the quality framework Nursing Care. This is also based on the best performing 25% of the nursing home care sector, so we should also be careful not to make it much more expensive. Two: the district care sector also has its own quality framework and its own system to achieve that quality framework. That's what's gonna happen. A quality framework for nursing home care will also be established in the coming year. In short, given how that part of the system works, I do not think it is surprising that you come from the sectors to quality standards, that the NZA then calculates what that costs and that we estimate it in the budget. I think that's the way it's supposed to work. Just, you're looking for a political weighing moment. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u166	First of all, I would like to thank the fact that, at least in the first quarter of next year, there will be clear, concrete plans for the completion of these scrapings. We think that's important. In order to avoid a second-term motion, we believe it is important to link concrete, clear, measurable objectives to this. What do you want to realize? It shouldn't be a non-binding exercise. For example, low-hanging fruit should also be able to be taken directly. Can the Minister undertake to do so for the various policy areas? Because I think you should also want to show results quickly to take care professionals seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u167	I think it is a good thing that we will steer in your direction the results of all the actions that are already under way, such as the very concrete deletion of rules, and those that have been made when we come up with our programme. In this way, you can see in a very concrete way whether there has been enough deletion of that plan and whether there has been sufficient action, even in these months. There is every reason for that and there is also an incredible amount of enthusiasm from the sector, so I am not really making any illusions about that. Except some rules really take time to delete them properly. Anyway, at least you have time to get a good look at what's needed. So we will continue along this road and we will report to you as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u169	It is good that some of these concrete things are already being taken into account. I'm assuming there's enough in the Ministry as well. But I am also concerned about the specific objectives. For example, the previous cabinet set a concrete objective for the administrative burden on business. That could be a percentage less or an amount you want to deduct. In order to remove this non-committalism and prevent new rules from coming into line with the old rules, I think that is an important point that should also be included in these plans. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u170	Yeah, sure. I would just like to do something other than the impact assessment of the previous cabinet. Because that impact measurement was macro quite exciting, but it's not for nothing that people are banging on our door right now to indicate that they haven't actually noticed any of that. So I think we should just look, a little bit considering the line we'd like to use here, the three of us, what the people themselves notice. In fact, we are not satisfied until the people in healthcare themselves actually say to us: yes, indeed, that bureaucracy has been reduced, the administrative burden has indeed fallen. So yeah, we're gonna make it measurable. And yes, we're gonna keep telling each other if people actually notice. That's how we're gonna decorate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u171	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be on the block of "medical ethics." An important part of the coalition agreement concerns that medical-ethical paragraph. There are a number of issues that are more relevant to colleagues' portfolios, but I would also like to address a number of issues orally. For you will understand that this paragraph was thoroughly discussed when the coalition agreement was concluded. That is absolutely right. It is about matters of life or death and it is about matters that affect people in the depths of their feelings and in the depths of their beliefs. These are subjects on which many people in society think very differently. The same applies to this coalition. But that is precisely why it is nice, I think, that this cabinet represents a broad spectrum of views in society. That is also the reason why the line of this cabinet and the mandate from the coalition agreement is to tackle the issues that concern it with caution and care. Carefulness and caution go for speed. At the same time, these subjects must be able to remain in motion. That is the other balance that is also contained in that paragraph. I therefore felt that I should give you the best possible insight into the steps we are going to take in the stand-of-business letter recently sent to the Chamber. An important step is that in the first half of next year, before the summer, you will receive a medical ethics note, in which some of these topics that have also been mentioned will come back. We shall do so on the basis of the three prisms, as they have been called, in the coalition agreement. Are there sufficient alternatives that do not require or do not require an extension of the scope of the policy? Is the question of the medical-ethical dimension at issue, in fact, more than the importance of the progress of medical science, and what advice could be involved? Has the social debate taken place sufficiently and is there sufficient political reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u173	The Minister states that a stand-of-business letter has been written. That's very important. A number of principles have already been laid down. The Minister also states: I come with a letter on medical ethics in the first half of 2018. Now the experience here in the Chamber is that half of the years want to be a little longer. One of the agreements made in the coalition agreement is that an investigation is being carried out into the people who wish to live a life. It is very important that that investigation is carried out, so I am very pleased with that. But I would very much like to make some progress on that. I would therefore ask the Minister to inform the Chamber on this subject a little earlier, for example before 1 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u174	I get that wish. Let us first discuss the question of how long a six-month period lasts. I believe that this is before the summer and that the summer begins when the summer recess of the Chamber begins. I know the weather always takes that into account. So I guess that's how we're gonna do it. I'll take a good look at the calendar, and I'll make sure there's a note of medical ethics for your summer recess. I intended to send the cabinet response to the evaluation of the euthanasia law to the Chamber on that occasion. I actually think that the research mission is also related to that cabinet response. There has been a very comprehensive evaluation. One part of it is the group from Schnabel's report. But actually, you should want to deal with these issues together. Now I hear you say: could you do that a little sooner? In any case, I believe that we should keep the cabinet response to the evaluation of the euthanasia law and our mission close together. If we only discuss this task, I believe that the political debate will also cover the breadth of all kinds of euthanasia-related themes. Think, for example, of Mrs Dik-Faber's questions on the concerns of psychiatrists as to whether they are sufficiently careful. On the basis of the evaluation, I have no reason to doubt the care, but I would very much like to talk to those psychiatrists about what they are worried about. It is a major evaluation, which requires a careful response. I'm gonna need a little bit of time for that. I would like to link the mission for the follow-up study of the Schnabel Committee, which was formulated in the coalition agreement, with that cabinet response to the evaluation of the euthanasia law. I'd like to keep it together. I understand that you say yes, but also make progress. I do. But here too, caution and care really go beyond speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u175	I share that entirely with the Minister. Carefulness and caution are very important on this issue. At the same time, of course, it has been on the agenda for some time. As I have said, I fully share the importance of the research and of the social debate that we are conducting on this basis. However, I would like to call on the Minister to keep it in mind and, if he does not want to separate it from the whole letter on medical ethics, to see if he can come forward with it sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u176	I understand Mrs Dijkstra's question, and I am also very happy to deal with it. But again, I can't really give a guarantee on another timeline. So I understand why you're saying don't try to wait all the way to the edge of the summer. I very much agree with you. So I will not wait any longer than it takes to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u177	Finally, perhaps I could ask the Minister to let the Chamber know when we can expect that if he is prepared to do so. He says, "I'm not waiting until the edge of summer." Can he tell us until when we have to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u178	Yeah, I think that's very good. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to mention one other medical-ethical issue, namely the practice of repeated abortions and the role that the general practitioner could play in this. In our reply, I also mentioned the role that abortion clinics could play in this. If we allow the figures to work well, we can all see that it is undesirable that a large proportion of abortions actually turn out to be repeated abortions. Couldn't that have been prevented by a more proactive contraception policy? And couldn't the general practitioner play a very important role in that? Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. Couldn't abortion clinics themselves play a very important role in this? Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. They can absolutely do that together. So I'd also like to talk to them to see how we can do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u179	You are inviting Mr Van der Staaij to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u180	Well, I actually saw him get up very inviting myself. Then I thought, "Yeah, let's make room for that."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u181	Yes. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u182	It was initially a question from Mrs Dijkstra. That's why I thought, "If she wants to react first, I think it's nice."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u183	Yes. Mrs. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u184	I think it's very nice of Mr. Van der Staaij, but he got up first. But I'd like to ask my question. Let me accept the courtesy. I have asked the Minister how abortion care is now guaranteed very much there... Oh, I see the Minister's pointing to his colleague. He is right; for that I must have his colleague. Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u185	In any case, I think it is a good signal that it is being asked from very different quarters of the Chamber about the point that repeated abortions account for one third of the number of abortions. Shouldn't we be looking at that in a targeted way? The Minister is now talking about talking to general practitioners and looking at contraception. It is noteworthy that contraception has always been mentioned in the conversation in abortion clinics. I understand from research that it is dealt with in 75% of the cases. So is the Minister prepared to take a broader look at what's going on? There may also be other aspects of lifestyle. Does the Minister therefore wish to look more broadly, both in the evaluation of the abortion law, which is still to be carried out, and in these talks? It shouldn't be narrowed to the point of contraception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u186	Then let's do two things. I would like to involve this in the evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, but I think there is something else in this too. Because you have a lot of different ways to address contraception. I think that, especially in the case of vulnerable women, this should be done in a more intrusive way than at present. To be honest, I really do wonder whether this conversation is being conducted sufficiently and thoroughly at this time. I think we can do better than that. And if we then invest contraception in both the abortion clinics and the general practitioner, I also think that we can avoid a great deal of suffering if we can intensify and improve the cooperation between them and if we can ensure that that conversation is conducted properly. Of course, this is already the case for a large proportion of women. So I don't want to wait for the review of the Law of Abrupt Pregnancy. And the explanation of the backgrounds I would like to take with me in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you for that commitment. As far as contraception is concerned, I would also like to draw attention to the broader perspective. For example, it can also be about resilience in relationships. That's more than just the technical side of contraception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u188	Absolutely, sure. That is certainly my intention. It's not just about the technique of it, certainly not. No, I wish it were that simple. Mr President, I have now arrived at...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u189	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u190	You see light at the end of the tunnel; I can see it. I've arrived at the "other" block. This concerns a number of issues. I'll start with waste. A number of groups have put the issue of waste on the agenda. The CDA, D66 and the PvdA have set up a hotline against waste. They have heard several examples of how to deal with this. I would like to take up the suggestion from Mrs Bergkamp, I believe, that we should talk to the municipalities to see how waste can be avoided. By the way, it's not just municipal care purchased. That's what it's for. Waste is sometimes on the dividing line between domains. There has, of course, been an approach to the previous hotline, which received a lot of reports. Mrs Dijksma pointed that out. That approach has also been implemented and it is running. It has also led to a Handheld Purchasing Wmo tools. So that has been quite a concrete approach. At the same time, you did not get the reports you mentioned for nothing. So I guess we're not done with this. So I would like to talk to the municipalities and other funders of care, in this case especially the health insurance companies and the health offices, to see what extra we could do to prevent waste. I will report on this in your direction. The independent client support was rightly mentioned by a number of people. Mrs Hermans spoke about this, as did Mr Slootweg and Mrs Bergkamp. I would like to use the additional resources from the government agreement to strengthen customer support and increase its findability, especially for a number of groups. In particular, I would like to go with Mr Blokhuis, who has social services in his portfolio, for the homeless and homeless young people, or rather the bank sleepers. That group does need client support to get there. Client support needs to be better located and better equipped to also serve complex target groups. Another target group I would like to serve by means of the coalition agreement is the parents of multiple limited children. It is precisely for them that the search is all-powerfully complicated, especially in combination with the search for the right place in education and proper use of the budgets there. We really need to help them with that. I'd love to do that along that line. I come with a proposal to the Chamber in the first quarter. The CDA Group asked about institutions that could be considered as system banks. That is how I understood Mr Slootweg's question. Purchasers are no longer able to get around such institutions, and the inspection can hardly get over them, to sum up Mr Slootweg briefly. Shouldn't we be looking more closely at institutions that become too big to fail? I think that is an interesting point. I'd like to take a look at that. I think that we should do so in conjunction with the question of whether the instruments we now have are sufficient. These instruments are not small in themselves. The NZa already has the instrument of significant market power; that is what it is called. This means that you can impose an obligation on a monopolist to avoid problems arising precisely from the size of the market power that an institution has, for example the obligation to conclude a contract under reasonable conditions, so that the institution can never become more powerful than the purchasing party. The ACM supervises under the Competition Act. It looks at mergers or institutions not becoming too big to fail and whether the interest of patients, for example freedom of choice, will not be put under pressure. In addition, if the scale presents risks to the quality or safety of patient care, the Inspectorate for Health Care and the Youth Inspectorate have the possibility to advise the Minister of VWS to give an indication to split up as an ultimum remedium. In short, we have a very rough toolbox in our toolbox, but we just don't use it that often because it's quite profound. Of course, you have to be able to justify very well that the problems you see arise from the size of the organisation. That is why a different toolbox is usually chosen because otherwise you make yourself legally vulnerable. In short, it's interesting matter. I think it is good to carry out the reconnaissance that Mr Slootweg is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u191	I am very pleased with this commitment from the Minister. I have drawn particular attention to the regional aspect. What I hear now is mostly about the ACM and the instruments that it has, but that is more or less national. Even if an institution as a whole does not have so much to say on the market, it may have a significant regional interest, which is why these problems do arise. Is that what you're looking at? We have the impression that this is not happening explicitly at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u192	Be good to me, but my impression is that the ACM looks at mergers in the region that way. I've had a number of experiences with ACM trajectories in recent years. Our conversation with the ACM was always about how to define the region, what is a logical region and what is the significant market power in a particular region. The absolute figure of the size of the budget is therefore less important than the significant market power that one has on the basis of a market share in a given region. The discussion is always about how to define a particular region. The region is really different for one branch of sport than for the other branch of sport. Precisely care for the elderly tends to want to be close to home, and rightly so. So you shouldn't make the region too big when you start looking at the impact of market power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u193	The underlying idea is, of course, that if such an institution falls apart, the surrounding organisations will not really be able to cope with it. This therefore jeopardises the continuity of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u194	That's right. Only your suggestion that the inspection would, for that reason, be reluctant to use the instruments that it has, we do not recognize. Of course, you have to think carefully about opting for closure, but that is a different perspective. For example, we saw that with Careyn, although closure at Careyn was not the issue, because there was no basis for that at all. I know, however, that there was reason in the discussion to raise that question. What does it mean for clients if you choose closure? That is a question that the inspection should also take into account. Because especially in nursing care, it's incredibly profound if you have to close down and the elderly have to move. So you must always have on the retina what is the fastest way to a safe and good house with loving care for these elderly people. Sometimes achieving a quality improvement within the institution is faster than closing and transferring clients. Other branches of sport and forms of care are again more mobile. Then the last question in my block is "other." It's about the personal alarm. The SP, the PvdA and 50PLUS have asked questions about that word that the Fat Van Dale is not going to make as far as I am concerned. The less we use it that way, the more likely it is. "Personal alerting and its use." That's what I'd call it. As a result of the agreement I made with Mrs Dijksma on this subject, there has been a sample. You have seen the result of that. The result is that there is work to be done. That is also the conclusion of Mrs Dijksma in her first term. Following that inventory, that sample, I asked the NZa to urge the care providers in the sample, who used conditions contrary to the provisions of the law and to the right that applies, to change those conditions and also to simply reimburse any amounts paid by people. That's one thing. This is therefore about the parties in the sample. A second is that I asked the ANBO to start a reporting operation so that clients who say so at their institution can report there. The reports received by the ANBO will be picked up by the NZa. The notifications that the NZa itself receives are also picked up by the NZa, as well as the notifications that the ANBO receives. The third is that the Healthcare Institute clarified the claim in the preparation for that sample. In this way, institutions are perfectly clear about what can and cannot be done under the law. That has made it more clear. The fourth is that the NZa will issue an information card for clients and institutions. What is the real truth about the current claim to the law? be made clear. It also explains where you can bring cases that you see and that are not in conformity with the legislation. This is mainly at the contact point of the ANBO or at the NZa. The fifth is that I have asked ActiZ and BTN to ensure that this clarification is allowed and this should not be brought to the attention of all their members. One: they must ask their members to change the terms of the contract which are apparently in circulation but are not in conformity with this claim. Two: any payments that might have been made must be restored, so simply refunded. Three: they must also create transparency for their own clients when it comes to alerting people. That's how I translated the sample we did into action in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u195	I'm happy about that. That is mainly on the prevention side. My question was how, in a year's time, the Minister will be sure that it will not go on secretly. Is it not possible, for example, to ask the NZa to re-test in some time to see whether institutions comply with the agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u196	Actually, I think that's a good suggestion. I've heard you ask for an investigation. Then I think you'll be on your way to a solution for a longer time. That is why I thought I would have adapted the practice the fastest. I think this is a package of measures that can simply work quickly. But I'm fine with asking the NZa to do a sample at some point. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you. Or aren't you done yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u198	Mr President, I am actually through answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u199	That's what I thought. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u200	I have a question about the Start note and making the funds available under the coalition agreement. If I understand the Minister's answer correctly, before we vote on the budget there will be another proposal and a letter of amendment. We have looked in particular at the involvement of the House of Representatives in these proposals and those spending plans. I do not know how to do this before the votes. Is there any mention in these proposals of the substance of these funds, the question of where they really are going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u201	Of course. Our administrative work between departments should never interfere with the budget law of the Chamber. We've been wanting to do a few things. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that a number of additional intensifications on subjects in the supplementary post would be made available to the Ministry of Finance and that departments that could not deduct from it until there was a thorough plan underneath, in order to avoid underexhaustment and to promote efficient use. That's a method that's not entirely new. This has been happening for a while, but that's the official work. You don't have to take that into account. You want, I think, to be able to say what needs to be done with the content of that money. The additional intensification of care will take place in a number of tranches, the first before the end of the year. There are then two further instalments in the direction of the spring decision-making. As soon as the money comes from the supplementary item in the VWS budget, you have every right to amend it. Always. Apart from how the money gets into the budget, there is always the possibility of having a dispute about the content of spending with one of the three here behind the table, or with all three at the same time. So you can just have a discussion with us about the content of spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u202	I understand that this could apply to the future. If we still have a letter of amendment between this debate and the votes on 21 December, it is, of course, a complicated story. We won't be able to ask any more questions about it. What room is there after that to talk about these plans again in substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u203	As much space as you want. I think we should make that very practical. It is a letter of amendment because, technically speaking, some of the money from the supplementary post of the Minister of Finance already comes to the VWS budget. That is why there is a letter of amendment. As a Chamber, you must agree that the VWS budget will be increased by that part. There will therefore be a letter of amendment. The second is that, of course, you want to talk to us about the content of the plans underneath. There's three and a half years of opportunity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u204	When does the letter of amendment come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u205	Before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u206	They're on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u207	For next week's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u208	I'll take a look around. No one objects to that. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u209	I'm being souffled it'll be Monday next week. Is that right? Yeah, I see exuberant nod. Next Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u210	I think this is important. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u211	The question is how much is in it, because it is not yet clear which parts are going to land in it and which are going to be included in the first supplementary budget. So I'd like to see which parts are included. So I understand we're getting some Mondays. Then we can always see if there is still a need for further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u212	Exactly, but not just before the votes. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u213	To get rid of all the excitement, it will simply say: some of the amounts reserved in the supplementary item will go to the VWS budget. We do not then assume that everything we do with that money can be accepted. So we will simply talk to you about the content of the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u214	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u215	What did you take?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u216	I brought with me the answers to the questions. Yesterday, I asked a question about a universal, uniform declaration of care. In the answer, you say that such a statement would stand in the way of customization. I have mentioned a number of examples where carers need such an explanation. My intention was that that statement would only determine the status of caregiver by a signature from the general practitioner. But of course no rights are derived from this, which any municipality can apply further for itself. Are you, then, in favour of such a uniform family policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u217	No, I'm not for that, for a few reasons. The first is that I really think that we should not eliminate healthy thinking in the sector because of all this type of uniformity. The second is that I'm afraid of such an explanation. Someone has to prepare them again, you call yourself the GP; the poor man has more to do than paper. They're just so grumbling about it that there's gonna be paper all the time. So this seems to me to be a rather bureaucratic intervention for a completely different problem, namely whether we involve the caregiver sufficiently in the choices we make in the care sector and, above all, whether we manage to support that caregiver properly. So does that caretaker know how to find our support desks? The answer to that question is no. That's what we need to talk about. So that's how we should want to bring more attention to care support. There's money in the coalition agreement to do extra work with that. Of course, about the plan that I want to make for that, I'm going to have the conversation and then I'll come back to you with a proposal. I will do so on the occasion of the Langer programme at home, because it is particularly problematic in that target group, for older people who are carers for someone who needs ever more intensive care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u218	This answer could have been shorter too, I am very sorry, but it is also about the quality of answers, not the length.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mezzo, the family carers' association of interests, is asking for such an explanation. Again, that is separate from all the other elements you mention. It's just a determination of status. The general practitioner often gives such a statement, but the problem is that that statement is not legal and that there are also municipalities that say: no, it's not good, we're going to do another study. But a clear statement with a signature is simply enough; it is bureaucracy that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u220	I see it differently, but let's just resume this dispute at the same time as I come up with our own story and our own plans on how to make care support more accessible to carers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u221	I would like to come back to a point from the written answer, namely nutrition as part of nursing care. My group is getting signals that it is difficult for institutions that really want to fit in with food to the needs of residents, which have not been sufficiently taken into account within the housing component. Is the Minister prepared to include this in the investigation that the NZa is also conducting?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u222	It was over 200 questions, but if I remember correctly, this is about whether it's possible to prepare kosher and whether that fits. Right? What even the assignment is... Meal facilities are extremely important for the elderly. It is important to coordinate the way meals are prepared with client councils within institutions. We do not really see that there would be any obstacle there. So if you do see it, I would like to hear something more specific about what you would like to focus on, so that we can also see where that problem is taking place. I don't recognize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u223	The problem is there. I have also asked questions about this before. These are the kosher meals, but in general meal provision is just extremely important for the identity of residents. If there are signs within the "stay" component that the compensation for meals, in this case kosher meals, is insufficient, I think there is a task for the NZa to look into this. So if the Minister says he's giving this to the NZa as a point of attention, I'm very pleased. If the NZa comes back and says the point isn't there, I want to settle. These institutions and their governance really want to, the client councils have raised it, but they just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u224	I think that is an extremely practical proposal. Let's ask the NZa if there's a problem here. If it's not there, then it's not there, but let's ask the NZa that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u225	The search direction of 50PLUS does not go directly to kosher and halal. I hope that the Secretary of State will come back to this in the context of prevention. I talked about malnutrition yesterday. Also in nursing homes 15 to 25 people are malnourished. That's different than choosing something you like. You haven't said anything about being malnourished yet. I would like to hear more specifically about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u226	The fact that I did not say anything about it has to do with the fact that my colleague, Mr Blokhuis, is taking this issue into the context of 'prevention of malnutrition'. It doesn't matter where people live. So I think my colleague will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u227	Fine, thank you. You did your best!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u228	This is it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u229	Two and a half hours; that's fine. I really want to suspend for a very short time now. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care. I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u230	We will continue with the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport, and I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to narrow it down a little bit. Tuesday evening I have heard from all sides of the Chamber the warmth for the care professional and the warmth for loving care. On the other hand, I have also heard the broad desire for clarity and transparency: clarity and transparency of policies, about outcomes of treatments and about who does what in the care chain. I would like to answer the questions on the basis of four blocks, but I would like to start with a topical point: Biogen and Spinraza. Three weeks ago, the Chamber asked in an AO to look for a solution for the medicine Spinraza for a number of patients who need it very urgently. I am glad that a letter has now been sent to the Chamber stating that there is an availability regime for patients. I would like to express my thanks from this place to the University Medical Centre Utrecht and the patient organisation Muscle Diseases Netherlands, because they have helped prepare and participated in the preparation of this arrangement. It's still a provisional solution. I expect that we will be able to decide on the inclusion of Spinraza in the basic package in the second quarter of 2018. Until then, therefore, there is no question of insured care. This does not solve the problem of expensive medicines. We will have to put a lot of energy into that, both nationally and internationally, for example by buying in together with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u232	I have one question for the Minister. I got an e-mail from very concerned parents from a child who needs Spinraza, but who's older. It is now only available for young children. Does the Minister have an answer for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u233	We would like to help all patients at all times, but in creating this solution we have focused on the acute need for acute patients or, if you like, the most acute need for the most acute patients. If we have a ruling on the inclusion of Spinraza in the package within a few months, I hope that we will be able to make Spinraza available for a much larger group of patients and patients. That is why I am so cautious: we still have to conduct the negotiations on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u234	Perhaps I am asking for the impossible, but can the Minister provide some insight into the period within which that might happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u235	As I have just said, I expect to be able to decide on the inclusion of Spinraza in the package in the second quarter of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u236	In my first term, I have already complimented the Minister on the fact that, within the promised three weeks, he has reached a temporary solution for a group of patients. He started this type of negotiation for the first time. Does he agree that this is actually the worst way to allow expensive medicines? It's not transparent. The Minister is in the hands of a benevolent manufacturer and undoubtedly at the mercy of the manufacturers. I would like to hear a general appreciation from the Minister now that he has gained his first experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u237	That first appreciation is that I would like to see the medicinal product manufacturer be called upon to make it available in advance when an expensive medicine is still in the lock. This is therefore an appeal towards the pharmaceutical industry to make the remedy available at their expense as a compassionate use. That is the direction in which I would like to move, I say in the direction of Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u238	I agree with the Minister anyway, but I'm asking for more. Does the Minister also agree with at least a number of groups in the Chamber that the system really has to be turned upside down, that it has to be changed when it comes to the authorisation of expensive medicines? After all, we see that ultimately, even with compassionate use, you put your fate in the hands of the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u239	In one of the first AO's we talked about what we as a government have in the tool kit to deal with expensive pharmaceutical. For my part, the report of the Health Council still needs to be commented on, as I said in that AO. To see how we can load the tool kit, I will return to the Chamber in the first quarter 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u240	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u241	I look forward to that, but I hope that you will, for example, put into effect the Norwegian system, where the prices of medicines are not based on the highest prices but on the lowest average prices, which are easy quick wins, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u242	The word 'quick wins' is not something I would like to say on this point. On the one hand, it is very difficult to tackle the pharmaceutical industry. On the other hand, I would like to say that it is important for the pharmaceutical industry to come up with new developments, because there are many people who are urgently waiting for a cure for their disease. It is, therefore, and-and-and-so: to ensure that we can tackle expensive medicines, while at the other hand maintaining the recruiting and innovative of the pharmaceutical industry. Those two issues are reflected in the response that I will send to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2018 and which we will then discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u243	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u244	Spinraza brings the dilemma we are looking for very close. A human life is worth an infinite amount, but our budget is not infinite. Mr President, this is the time to say which cubes I had in mind. The first concerns affordable care and basic agreements. The second block is "transparency, outcome indicators and value-based healthcare"; I take that as one block. The third is the multitude of policies, or the jungle of policies. Then I can be very brief about regulation space, because Mr De Jonge has already spoken about this. I would then like very briefly to ask a number of questions. It will be about ten to fifteen of them from the 'bundle', so not all questions but a selection. I would like to comment on two amendments tabled in the first period because they fit into my portfolio. As far as I am concerned, I will start with affordable care and basic agreements. There's gonna be a moment for everyone when you're wondering if you can still pay for your care. For one is perhaps the far-from-my-bed show, for the other it is concrete and close; for them it is about themselves, about their child or about a parent. Fortunately, in the coming years, money will be added for medical care: 8 billion will be added until 2021. Expenditure on the Health Insurance Act is growing from 48.5 billion in 2018 to 56.3 billion in 2021. That's nice, but it doesn't put us in a luxury position. Together, we will have to make every effort to curb healthcare expenditure, because without tight agreements, spending will grow even harder. That is why we will start discussions next year on new basic agreements. Different groups have asked how we are going to do this. Let me put it first: the patient is our benchmark. Under the main agreements, we want to put in place a programme of substance. Together, we want to ensure that less often unnecessary use is made of the most expensive care. Where possible, care shifts to the general practitioner or other care providers nearby, possibly even home. I stress "where possible." For some complex conditions, it may be better for the patient to go to a highly specialised hospital where the most experienced doctors are. That too is often cheaper. It's about the right care in the right place. The examples are there. I recently paid a visit to the Bernhoven hospital in Uden. There medical specialists work together with general practitioners, for example dermatologists who work together with general practitioners and thus learn from each other and avoid unnecessary referrals to the hospital. Not a country cock, but playing the ball to each other: the patient can do it. We want to see these forms of cooperation much wider. The money to stimulate this is there. When making the money available, we will have to show that we are moving the movement forward, so less for the second line and a little more for the first line, because there will be more work to be done there. I ask the health insurance companies to encourage this development and, wherever possible, to agree on it in multi-annual contracts so that parties have time to adapt. In addition, I intend to set up a task force for care in the right place to drive this shift. So we're not just doing it with money, we're doing it with people who know how to do it in practice, who get the good ideas, who spread them and who are after them, so that it doesn't stick to good ideas. Mrs De Vries, among others, has asked how we are moving from the second line to the first line. Mr. Chairman. It will be a job in which we play more chess, with multiple main lines of chords on several topics. Mrs Dijksma has asked whether and how we keep the direction on this. We want to keep the lead on it, and so it is a job that we three do: the Secretary of State for the main agreement ggz, the Minister of the VWS for the care of the neighbourhood and myself for the medical-specialist care, the general practitioners and paramedical care. These are all professional parties that we leave at the table, but I would also like to stress here that we also want to involve patients' organisations in the main agreements. In fact, the work doesn't start until after the chords have been concluded. We will also have to follow up on the implementation and adjust and drive the content. That's the work we have in mind. We also work together on the themes we all have to deal with: the patient central, the labour market, about which we had an AO two weeks ago, the regulatory burden, already mentioned by Mr De Jonge, and care in the right place. These are subjects which will be dealt with in several, if not all, major agreements. So much for the affordability of the main agreements. The second block deals with transparency, outcome indicators and value-based healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u245	I also asked the Minister about the role of the qualitative agreements. In the previous main agreements, they did not come to their senses. Can the Minister give an answer to that, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u246	Maybe I was a little short, but in the previous round of basic agreements it was mainly financial agreements. Mrs Van den Berg asks about the more substantive charge. It is precisely the content of the main agreements that will be important in order to initiate this transition. We will therefore have to make indicators, models and arrangements for the way in which the transition from the second line to other places is sometimes triggered to the one and a half line care, sometimes to the first line, sometimes to the home and sometimes to the third line, to the specialists. For that, too, I need the help of such a task force with practitioners, precisely in order not to leave it alone in the financial agreements, which the Court of Auditors has also made a point of, but to make substance of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u247	I would like to ask a question that I could not ask the previous minister, about the accumulation of healthcare costs and the compulsory advisory costs at the pharmacy. As I said to the previous minister, you will not only pay those mandatory costs for new medicines, but also for medications that you have not used for example for a year. For example, there are many medicines in a tube that you use for a year, after which you get a new tube. Or you're on medication in a certain season. Chronically ill people, who need the same medicines over and over again, are constantly faced with these mandatory advisory costs after a year. Can the Minister say anything about that? There's nothing you can do about it? Over and over again these consulting costs, that's impossible for many people to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u248	Honestly, it doesn't fit into this block. I wanted to answer that question later. I'll be happy to give you an answer. I want to do it now, too, but then I'll get a little bit of my own order... Oh, well, I'd better do it right away. Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u249	Then that's what we've been through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u250	In the case of chronic diseases such advice from the pharmacy remains important. You say that in a chronic illness a year later, the disease is the same. Yeah, but maybe other medications the patient's on aren't the same. It's about the dosage and the interaction. There may be all kinds of reasons for the pharmacist to adapt that advice on the provision of that medication compared to an earlier year. I think it is very important to continue to support the safe and effective use of medicines. I therefore also welcome the emphasis that patients continue to pay for the provision of responsible pharmaceutical care and also for the advice on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u251	We are, of course, very much in agreement with the Minister. We also call for safe and effective care and safe use of medicines. But it is a fact that many people still face a considerable cost. It's actually about medication they've had many times before. These people do not want a discussion at the desk: I have already received five advice on this and I get the same advice every time. Isn't there another way for these people? Can't we look at each patient for advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u252	I find that very difficult. As I have just argued, there may be developments in the patient's person over the years that make it necessary for that pharmacist to give his advice on responsible drug use over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u253	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u254	Mr. Chairman. I come to the second block, which is about clarity and transparency. Good care is not always about successful surgery. Good care is about the result for the patient and that is different for everyone. In this context, several spokesmen have called for attention to be given to the promotion of cost-effectiveness, an important issue. What do you need, what's important to you? Not just "what's going on," but especially "what do you need in your situation?" Suppose you're 80 and your kidneys give up. What if the doctor can show you what dialysis gets you and what happens if you decide not to? And not with a theoretical story, but with results that have been reported by similar patients themselves? And what if it turns out you live longer on dialysis, but spend half the time in the hospital? Then there's something to discuss. For this, information must be available, information that really matters to patients. The government agreement states that the doctor's bet should be on the outcome rather than on turnover. The patient's importance must be paramount and the patient must be able to take part in this decision. I want to make this information about outcomes of care available to patients. That information, important information for patients and for doctors, does not come naturally. There is now a lot of information about how the treatment has been performed, how the care is organised, many medical outcomes of treatments are already known, but there is far too little insight into how patients experience the outcome. How's the pain? Are they constantly living in fear that the cancer will come back? Can they play football with their son again? Running errands at the super? Run the marathon? That too is different for every individual. The musician with hearing problems, the young mother with cancer. That is why I want 50% of the disease burden to have outcome indicators available within five years, so that patients and doctors can decide together on the right treatment. This information should also be available to patients in order to determine which doctor you should go to in your situation. So information to be able to choose which office you're going to go to and if you're in that office, decide together on the right treatment. If we know the results, we can also make the step towards rewarding the outcomes. At the moment, the incentive is too much on the way to doing business. If you reward transactions, you also get transactions. But in the case of kidney dialysis for the 80-year-old patient you may not want an operation, because the patient chooses to want a different quality of life. Then that outcome must also be rewarded. Mr. Chairman. For 50% of the disease burden in five years have outcome indicators available, that is a significant objective. That will require a lot of professionals and patients to work this way. It requires quite a few adjustments in the organisation of care, in guidelines development, of course in ICT and also in contracting. So it'll be something of holding on. However, as far as I am concerned, it is essential to further improve the quality of care for patients. Moreover, it also contributes to affordability. Mr. Chairman. Internationally, this movement is known as value-based health care, in Dutch: value-driven care. And there are now strong indications that this will go hand in hand with improving patient quality and cost control. It also leads to lower regulatory burden: fewer indicators, but indicators that matter. That, too, is important to me. Mr. Chairman. It's ambitious, but I think it's possible. In fact, it's already happening with caution. There's a group of forerunners already doing it. We see a few insurers and some providers taking first steps towards rewarding outcomes, but more is happening. Tonight, really tonight, more than 50 professionals and directors are meeting at the Ministry who want to make a difference. They are motivated to put the outcome first and together with patients to make the best choices. They are already working on measuring patient experiences and are also attracting them in an international context. They are already treating less and differently to achieve a better result and a better quality of life for patients. This leading group will work together with the Zorginstituut to realise this ambition. We're gonna help them do that. I am going to make EUR 70 million available for this in the next cabinet period. But we're not just gonna do that with frontrunners. I would also like to make it administratively anchored in the main agreements that I have just spoken about. The patient and the professional as a partner, together for the best outcome; that is the real value. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make another point about openness and transparency. I would like to point out that openness also requires courage. Hospitals have been cooperating for years in the research of the NIVEL into avoidable mortality. That may be easy when, like five years ago, the avoidable mortality has decreased by half, but that is very difficult and vulnerable if that decline stagnates. It is precisely this openness that is needed in order to improve. Transparency must not lead to punishment, but to improvement and learning from one another. Mr. Chairman. After transparency, I now come to the block on policies. Understand how it is; that starts with the choice of your health insurance policy. Several parties commented on Tuesday on the wide range of healthcare policies. That's right, because we're in the middle of the transition season. People have to decide before 1 January whether to stay with the same health insurance provider or not. Here too, you have to understand, before you can decide whether to switch or not. Two years ago, there were 71 basic policies. Next year we have 55 more, roughly two policies per insurer. The difference between the cheapest and most expensive is €380 per year. So there's really something to choose. But, of course, these differences must be transparent. The NZa has recently been watching this. Mrs van den Berg, Mrs De Vries, Mrs Kooiman and others have said that if you stick 64,000 labels on those 55 policies, think of all the collections. It is not so strange that people don't see the forest through the trees anymore. There's just too much. I asked the NZa how to strengthen the care content of collections, so that there are real differences between policies. I hope to get that report from the NZa before Christmas, after which I can send it to you. I'm considering follow-up. I'm going to talk to health insurance companies about that. I'll let you know the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u255	I didn't know the word, but the phenomenon "clonepolis" actually means that you offer exactly the same package at a higher price, for example, while just sticking another sticker on it. Isn't that supposed to be a thorn in the eye? Could his commitment include just getting rid of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u256	Of course, those 64,000 labels are way too much. This is an obstacle to transparency. We need to get to clear differences in content between policies with a corresponding price, and then not with a half-point or a point here or there, but real clear differences. I've asked the NZa to help me make that clearer. We shouldn't have to stick 64,000 labels. I didn't know the word "clonepolis" either. The range can be quite wide, then there is something to choose. But there really must be something to choose, and we all need to understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u257	Ma'am... Dijksma. I wanted to say Mrs Sharon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u258	I'm afraid that's okay, but it's okay in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u259	Mrs. Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u260	That sounds good. Now let's get sharp. Is the Minister finally prepared to ban cloning policies if necessary? For the sake of convenience, I agree that there may be a difference, that there must be something to choose. This is about policies where you don't actually choose, and you are wrongly forced to pay a price. Are you prepared to ban it, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u261	I don't think that's necessary so soon. I'm just leaning the other way. We live in a free country: an insurer can make policies. The debate we have had earlier and we are having today will also be heard by health insurers. So if they make different policies at different prices, then that's fine. But if the number of labels does not go down quickly, we will go to other means. That's what legislation is the ultimate medium for, but I'm not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u262	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u263	The final point is that you are not ruling it out at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u264	No, we know that there are possibilities here, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u265	I agree with what Mrs Dijksma asked about cloning policies. Can I then conclude or interpret the answer as meaning that the Minister is now having a zero measurement carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u266	The answer to that question is affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u267	I'm standing still because it's such a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u268	I have a second question. What does that mean with regard to the budget policies? It was agreed in the government agreement that 2020 would remain the target date. The Minister said in writing in his answers: I would like to stick to that. I can understand that. However, we have asked for measures to be started now so that they are not only considered in 2020, but are now starting to prepare for measures that could be taken if they were not implemented by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u269	I would like to make a comment on the budget policies. I am very brief and concise, but I am not sure that I am going to confuse your order with that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u270	So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u271	Can I make that remark about the budget policy first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u272	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u273	The budget policy came by on Tuesday in the speech by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Van den Berg, among others. Mrs Kooiman also spoke about it. These policies are in line with the wishes of insured persons. At the same time, these policies may attract, above all, healthy insured persons, which may put pressure on solidarity. Partly due to adjustments in the risk settlement, I expect the supply of budget policies to decrease; perhaps less, perhaps more focused on quality and good care, also for less healthy insured people. I want to monitor this development from year to year and measure where we stand by 2020. It will be an annual monitor based on the results of that settlement. Then I would also like to determine whether further measures are needed. I have discussed this extensively in the department over the last few days. We can therefore take these measures quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u274	Imagine standing at a bakery and you can choose between 60,000 different loaves of bread. That doesn't even fit in a bakery. It is madness at the top that you can choose from so many products. Man is not a product and care does not have to be a market at all. You have to choose the good care; it should just be available. Because of this delusion of choice, people cannot keep the overview and so they do not change. And 1 billion has actually stuck with health insurance companies, which are now being deployed. Is the Minister prepared to ask health insurance companies to use the 1 billion in any case for premium reductions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u275	No, I don't have that willingness. I believe that insurers should be allowed to market an offer of insurance. I think I have just stated in detail that I think that the number of 64,000 should be significantly reduced, because there has to be something to choose. But out of 64,000 you can't really choose. From Zorgverzekerings Nederland I get the impression that the insurers also want to move in that direction. I would like to say that we are going to see it over the next few months. That's what I'm gonna talk about. But we have multiple insurers, and I'm happy about that. That's gonna give us a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u276	If you're sick, you don't want to choose. Then you just want good care. Health insurance companies are pouring out 11 billion dollars. They got a billion free gifts from people who couldn't choose anymore. If you remove all those buffers, at least you have 4 billion to spend. Why doesn't this minister ask the health insurance companies to use that to reduce their contributions? Now the premiums go up every year and patients suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u277	Well, if we're gonna bet that $4 billion, we're gonna lose it, too. Then it's over in one go. With a moderation of the premium costs, it stands at zero. Then you have two problems: you cannot use it at a later date and the risks for the insurers are running, because they also need to maintain a certain financial buffer to ensure that all those accounts can be paid. I can't imagine it any simpler than that. I am therefore not in favour of saying to the insurers that they should add the last 4 billion. This has been achieved once, and after that we have a major problem in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u278	No, because there's 11 billion on the shelf with the health insurance companies. I said, if you met all the solvency requirements, you'd still have $4 billion left to spend freely. The crazy thing is that health insurance companies say, no, we just put that in our own pocket, we don't put it in the care of our patients and we don't put it in the premium reduction either. So I ask the Minister to ask the health insurance companies to do so, to say: we are helping the patient and we are going to go for that premium reduction, because there is 4 billion left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u279	We're not gonna do that. That nibbles at the solvency of insurers. It seems to me an important good thing that these insurers stay firm. It benefits patients today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u280	Back to the budget policy. We do indeed have a very nice risk settlement system. So we hope to have sufficient compensation for sick people. We also know it's not perfect yet. People with chronic disease and ggz patients are still less attractive. My question about the budget policy is as follows. We know very well what the disadvantages are. We can only speculate on possible benefits. We already have a lot of policies. Can we not just speed up and say: there are plenty of alternatives, including for people who are sick or people with chronic disabilities; we do not need that budget policy for that, so let us get out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u281	The Minister sees that a lot of people use these budget policies. Those are often healthy people, quite often students. It provides a need. I'm not done with that. I said that I would like to look at the issue of risk resolution in the coming years so that we can take action at the beginning of 2020. So I'm not ready to say right now: we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u282	We have also very often recognised here in the Chamber, across several parties, that there are major disadvantages to the budget policy and that people do not see the consequences of this policy. That's why we want to get rid of it. That's what the coalition agreement says. Then why can't we bring things forward and say: with this policy people are at risk and they don't see their choice, so let's get out of it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u283	I just said that I want to look at the risk equation for a few years first. That's a recurring thing every year. Then I want to come here and say: we have to go through with that or we have to stop doing that. We will not wait until 2020, because in the meantime we will monitor it. I'll show you where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u284	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u285	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the policies. I'm gonna move on to the rule book now. It should all be a bit simpler. The same goes for working in care. The control pressure should be noticeably lowered. A number of Members of Parliament asked for the actions on Tuesday evening, as well as earlier. We have found a tried and tested recipe thanks to the initiative Het Roer Must Om. In doing so, general practitioners, insurers, industry and professional associations, supervisors and the government sat down together and literally let the rule and form for form go through their hands. The result is no longer forms for prescription on medical necessity or for special foods and dietary preparations, no longer applying for devices for chronic diseases every year, and so I can go on for a while. Such actions and scrapings now find broad imitation. Recently I was at the scrap conference (Ont) Regulal de Zorg, which was organized by the people of Het Ruer Om, among others. I have seen pharmacists, physiotherapists, district nurses, hospital nurses, gastrointestinal liver doctors and high-energy psychiatrists go on. I embrace and support that. I'm talking to the doctors behind (Ont) Regulal de Zorg because we really want to move this forward, and that doesn't happen automatically. We want and will support the organisation of the follow-up sessions, taking financial contributions and directing the further progress if necessary. The responsibility for the content of the scraping sessions remains with the parties concerned, but VWS, as an outboard engine, can ensure that the momentum remains in place. And I won't be satisfied until I hear from the health professionals themselves in a year's time that they are less affected by unnecessary rules. In the meantime, I'd like to keep an eye on it. At the beginning of March I get the people of (Ont) Regulal de Zorg to visit for an initial interim balance. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this part. I started my story with the appreciation that I hear all over and which I like to underline for our healthcare professionals. I'm happy about that. Without them, care stops. We three will come up with a campaign that hopefully stimulates people to choose the wonderful profession of work in care. The way we talk about care here also matters. I hope that we will have the debate in the coming years with respect for those who care for our patients with great love and warmth. Mr President, I thought: I choose a number of questions to discuss. So I'm incomplete, but I'll find out. The PVV fraction has requested that the carrier test also be offered to people without medical indication. We don't think that's a good idea. In fact, there is a form of screening or population screening in a carrier test without medical indication, and this form of prevention does not fit in with health insurance. So we are not proposing that this should be included in the package. Mrs Gebrands asked for a mandatory driver test for drivers in care. We see that the professional association, the NVZD, has now organised a good ongoing accreditation process. We see that the number of members of the NVZD is about 750. That's about two thirds of the drivers. We see that new drivers can all go through such an accreditation process. I think it's fine to go through with this. That's why we're not in favour of a mandatory driver test. Mrs De Vries made a first comment about purchasing power and market power in the case of devices. I asked KPMG to make an overview of the medical technology sector, the number of players, the size of the market, the profits and the question of market power. That's a general description. Maybe it's not quite what you're looking for, but that analysis is almost complete and I'm sending it to the Chamber by the end of the year. Mrs De Vries also made a comment following an interview with the President of the Medical Evaluation College on a clearer explanation of medicines. In the first few weeks, I've come to the department to find out about the idea of the Kijkluiter. That idea is not entirely new, but I am very much in favour of presenting clear leaflets, not only in words at B1 language level but also in a different way. I would like to see more examples of this and I will call for it. Then I come to Mrs Ellemeet's question about abolishing the storage part of the administrative premium and the automatic outflow of people under control. To put it a little homely, perhaps a little too domestic: there are those who pay the bills that I call'smackers', but there are also those who pay the bills that I call'stackers'. I think it's fine that we have such an administrative premium for crackpots. But I think we should take another look at it for poor people. On this point, there is a report from the Scientific Council for Government Policy. This raises the question of whether the storage should remain at that 25%, or could be reduced. I still have to take that report well and form an opinion on it. In the first quarter of 2018, I would like to return to Mrs Ellemeet. Then there is another question from Mrs Ellemeet, about the CASA clinics, about the continuity and accessibility of abortion aid. This was one of the first subjects I had to deal with at the end of October. You've heard of the bankruptcy of the CASA clinics before. The question that is important to us is also for Mrs Ellemeet, as I understood from her questions is whether the continuity of abortion care is guaranteed. I'm not sure if it was Mrs Ellemeet or anyone else, but someone from your room has been calling other clinics to see if the question can be answered there. We did that, too. Yesterday, following the debate in the first place, I looked again to see whether this question could be answered. The answer is yes. The other clinics indicate that they can take care of abortion. How can that be if a big clinic like CASA goes bankrupt? That's because those doctors are going to other clinics. You can make longer opening hours and be more active. It's important that the doctor's capacity isn't gone. It's flowing into other clinics. This might be a little too silly. And, as I indicated in the written reply, there is now a new clinic in Roermond. Rotterdam is on its way, just like Amsterdam. I'm also glad we're getting more parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u286	In the written answer I read the reassuring, or at least the relativizing sentence: "I find it annoying that women sometimes have a longer journey time." I was also talking about the fact that for a number of women travel time has become much longer. Sometimes they have to travel 100 miles. This is not a problem for some women, but it is a problem for other women. It means they have to go up and down, for example to Roermond, and after five days again, because they have five days to think about it. So they have to go up and down twice. There are women who can only do this if their environment has no knowledge of it, who are put under pressure by their surroundings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u287	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u288	My question to the Minister is: what does the Minister intend to do for these vulnerable women, who are now faced with this problem, with this travel time, which is not resolved in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u289	There is no practical solution to this. Of course, I hope that we have well-distributed abortion care across the Netherlands. Here, of course, also applies that the different clinics prefer to sit a bit apart and not all on the same pad, because then you can serve more people throughout the country. That is why, because I can imagine that it is annoying, I have included that sentence in the reply. I don't have a better alternative to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u290	"Annoying" is an understatement for these women, because it may mean that these women are unable to travel to that abortion clinic. Could the Minister, for example, consult with the general practitioners if there is any indication of such a vulnerable woman who comes to the general practitioner? If the GP thinks: "This woman now has a problem, she is unable to travel all the way to Roermond, we have to do something with that," will the Minister see if he can come up with a solution for this group of vulnerable women during this transition period? From the Minister's answer, I would say that he hopes to come up with a structural solution quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u291	No, Mr. Chairman, that seems to me to be a commitment with an empty shell, so I'm not going to make that commitment. Abortion care must be well organized, I keep an eye on Dutch level. The distribution of these clinics is important to me, but I do not think I can come up with a measure that will avoid those long travel times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u292	I have one comment to make, because the Minister says: no, we are not dealing with that now, I do not know how to do that. Wouldn't it be a good idea if there was a referral system, so that women also know where to go? Because there will be clinics, but of course women who are currently unwittingly pregnant have nothing to do with that. Because if, in one case, there's no waiting, it's unwanted pregnant women. So the question to the Minister is: would it not be good if there was a national direction on that, so that, for example, as with Safe Home, there is one song that you can call and you can immediately hear where you can go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u293	Usually the referral goes through the GP and that is quite well organized. If you look on the Internet, you can also see exactly where abortion clinics are located. So I don't know if there's any added value in setting up such a nationwide system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u294	I regret that, because here we also start from the women who actually go to the general practitioner, who are well informed and well able to do so. I would like to endorse Mrs Ellemeet's plea. I understand the Minister's answer that that is not one, two, three to settle, while I think that if you have a number available and can communicate it, it will make the situation a lot easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u295	I wasn't going to, but I'm listening to the argument. I do not want to make a commitment on this point. Then I come to a question that Mrs Van den Berg asked about the Information Board. That sounds like a bit of a technical thing, but that's not the least of it. It is about pooling and collecting data so that we can improve medication safety or improve digital exchange between healthcare providers. That Information Board meets on a regular basis. I have ensured that the reports made by the Information Board are public. In addition, I will ensure that I keep you regularly informed of developments on the topics dealt with by the Information Board. I'd like to do the first feedback before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u296	That makes it very clear to me what the Information Board is discussing, but I would also like to hear from the Minister who is involved. Will that be extended further? And, in particular, how are things going? I would also like to know if there are any key performance indicators to use in English, so that progress can be measured. I would almost say that on one A4 we should get what progress is and not ten pages of text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u297	If that's possible: on one A4's. If I've learned one thing in the last eight weeks, it's that it doesn't go on one A4's. Sorry boys, I say to my officials. Generally it takes a little more time, but always well-intentioned and of perfect quality. Now, seriously. In the first progress report I'm offering you, I'll see if... I will ask the members of the Information Board whether they think that the good parties are at the table and whether there is anything else to be done. I am also going to see if, for example, we can achieve a number of key figures, not everyone for themselves, but together in such a discussion. I understand the assignment and I like to pass it on to the Information Board. I want to look at it with the same interest. Then Mrs Van den Berg also asked a question about the use of healthcare buddies. There's extra budget for that. There are appointments with municipalities in the making. In the first quarter, I'd like to report to you on that. For that, I need to be able to discuss with patient organisations how practically they see this care buddy. Then there are two questions from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. One of these questions was addressed to Mrs Marijnissen, but I am almost certain that it was a question from Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u298	I actually have the same point as Mrs Agema. In the written answer I sometimes saw answers to my questions stating that they were questions from Mrs Marijnissen. There was no such thing on Tuesday; we now know why. It's true: I've asked all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u299	I had already noticed that, but in the AO Labour market policy in the care sector, it was Mrs Marijnissen who asked this question: is the reduction of 1.9 billion to the detriment of the working conditions of the care staff? I repeat what I said in that consultation: we spend more and not less money on curative care. Can you infer from this that the working conditions of all the people in the care are improving? No, because we're not a collective party. We really need to leave that with collective bargaining parties. Mrs Kooiman's other question was about the large supply of policies and the fact that so few people are switching. I would like to make the following comment. Roughly 6% of people, about 1 million people, are switching. But if we examine it properly, it turns out that another 20%, so a few million more people, have looked into it to see if it's useful. It is of course possible that you look and compare and find that it is not useful to switch. When we look at the switch-overs and the people who have looked at the content of their policy but who have not switched, I think that is quite a good result. I hope, and I have witnessed the debate we have just had, that the attractiveness to compare will increase in the coming years. I come to a question asked by Mrs Bergkamp. It also wants to involve social innovation in the innovation agenda. I'd like to make that commitment. In the first quarter of 2018, we will come up with a progress report on innovation and e-health. I would like to take up the subject of social psychological interventions; you spoke in particular about the situation of dementia. That'll be done in the first quarter. Then Mrs Dijkstra asked a question about preventing the repetition of abortion. She asked if I would be willing to talk to GPs and abortion clinics about whether they could play a role in this and, if so, which. I'd like to be willing to do that. I will, and I will inform you about the outcome. Then I come to an issue that I did not address earlier, also raised by Mrs Dijkstra: drug research in women. Is there sufficient attention to that, so she asked. I dare say that this is indeed the case, with the SunMw programme Gender and Health as well as the Good Use Medicines programme. You also asked me whether I would like to keep the pharmaceutical industry in mind on this point. I will. It'll take some time to find the method, but that's what I'm gonna do. Then there was a question from Mrs Dijksma about the date 12 November. That is the date on which the sickness insurance contribution must be known; that is the legal arrangement. At that time, it should be clear to insured persons what compensation they will receive if a choice is made for a particular health insurance. If I understood you correctly, you wanted all the contracting by health insurance companies with their suppliers to be completed on November 12th. It's getting better, but that's not 100% round yet. Healthcare insurers say that sometimes they still need time, even in this month, to reach those agreements. I'm fine with that, too. On the other hand, I do think that insured people should be able to assume that they can also assume that if they choose a particular package with a health insurance provider, they will also be delivered in accordance with the agreements. That's good. No further legal agreement is necessary for this. Mrs Dijksma had another question. That question was asked not only by her but by several other groups. Mrs Dik-Faber, among others, has asked. We want to start the transition from the second line to the first line; that's nice. Then there will be extra space: 2.5% in the budget for the general practitioners. But if that money doesn't come to the GPs, what can the Cabinet do about it? What can I do about it? I would like to make a few comments on that. The deal on 2.5% has already been made in the main agreement that is now under way. Those appointments aren't noncommittal. So I am going to talk to the parties, on the one hand the general practitioners and on the other hand the health insurance companies, to see if that money actually reaches the general practitioners. If the results are not satisfactory, then the new round of basic agreements, on which we are going to start discussions shortly after Christmas, will bring that point to the fore in a more binding way as a subject for the main agreement. You know what I mean: the money doesn't have to be spent; that's what I sometimes hear from the general practitioners. However, there must be a serious role for health insurers in this respect. When it comes to extra attention for general practitioners in disadvantaged areas and for evening, night and weekend care, and so on, they must ensure that this commitment is actually made and that the general practitioners also experience that this point is made by health insurers. I want to make myself strong for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u300	Your last question, Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u301	I know, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u302	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u303	It is good that the Minister wants to make an effort to do so, but I have already had the conversation with this association of general practitioners and that money does not always come. Not all health insurers comply with the agreement in the main agreement. How can you enforce that already? Waiting for another agreement, and then you have to rely on the hope that it will work out, seems to me to be the least of the right things to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u304	Me too. In the administrative consultation between the Ministry, health insurance companies and general practitioners that took place last month, it was stressed that this is not a non-binding issue. If this does not come to fruition, we will take it with us in the next round of major agreements. That's not a matter of years, it's a matter of months. You can be assured that we will raise this point and ensure that it remains on the agenda, including mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u305	You are through your interruptions, Mrs. Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u306	I thought this was my sixth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u307	No. Well, one last comment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u308	One final comment. It's nice that it's on your agenda, but that's the least of it. How can you ensure that health insurance companies actually keep their promises? Can you force that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u309	Certainly, because I am one of the parties to such an agreement. I think I can make more binding agreements on this if it does not happen on its own. That's what I want to do. This is not possible for the main agreement under way, but for the new agreement. The wake-up call is given and step two comes in the new round. Once again, I hope that I will be able to show this in the main agreements for 2018. Mr President, I have a few more questions to ask, and then I am through as far as I am concerned. Mrs Dijksma asked for a response to the initiative paper of the three parties PvdA, GroenLinks and SP to tackle the power of the pharmaceutical industry. She's asked for it before. I already see her gestures, and indeed, that reaction is coming. Mrs Sazias has asked for the high prices of medicines to be raised internationally. I do not need to raise these with the Foreign Office, because the international approach to high drug prices is getting better and better. More and more countries can come together. I refer here to the initiative of Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria to do more together on this issue. Mrs Sazias also asked a question about more exercise and gym lessons in school. Questions about gymnastics at school should be addressed to the Minister of Education, but in the Sports Agreement we will ensure that the theme of more exercise, more fun in sport, is addressed. This is not only about top sport, but also about broad sport, sport of all and for all, not only organized in the associations, but also unorganized but also very good sport. Think of people running to work in the morning. Mrs Sazias also made a comment on small practices. She was excited about that. Others have also spoken about this on Tuesday evening. It seems to me that, in the main agreement of 2019 with the general practitioners, we can see if we can get support for that theme. There is a budget, there is room and there is a wish, not least with the general practitioners themselves. I would therefore like to see whether there are any substantive agreements to be made on this matter. I'll let you know. Finally, a question by Van der Staaij of the SGP on the treatment of premature births. On Tuesday evening you pointed out the difference between the scheme in the Netherlands and how it works in Germany. You said, "Do you have to do this?" I understand that the directive in the Netherlands is currently being evaluated by professionals, looking not only at national but also at international effects. We will also ask professionals, those who have drawn up and evaluated the directive, to make an explicit assessment of whether that connection has been made with Germany. Mr. Chairman. There is much more to be said about answering the questions, but I wanted to leave it at that. I have two further amendments on which I would like to express an opinion, because they are in my area. One amendment, tabled by Mr Gerbrands, concerns the creation of a humanitarian fund for rare diseases. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that the reimbursement of these medicines for small groups of patients sometimes takes years because there are negotiations with the manufacturer about the price. I mentioned earlier in my speech that this time may be the least of my problems. That's going pretty well. The shutter period is often no more than a few months. Negotiations may also take place by the bank in a month or three or four. As far as I'm concerned, there's no need to start such a fund. Finally, I have another amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u310	I have some difficulty with the statement that the shutting-down period would only be a few months. So in the case of Orkambi, that was two years. In the meantime, patients are falling so far that this amendment comes as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u311	Mrs Agema is right to say that in very special cases the shuttering period is much longer, for example because further investigation is needed. But taken by the bank, they are periods that are no longer than a few months. I would like to say the following. I would like to continue to appeal to the pharmaceutical industry that, in the period when an expensive medicine is in the lock, they make that medicine available at their expense. It's called compassionate use. I think that apple is even stronger than a $10 million fund. I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Dijkstra on the subsidy for the continuation of the AmPrep pilot. I'm not for that. It would be some kind of bridging subsidy. This trial started in Amsterdam. If it has to last longer, Amsterdam will have to pay. If it is extended to other municipalities, the other municipalities will have to pay. People know, you know, I know the Health Council is taking advice. I do not think it is a good idea to say in anticipation of that opinion: let us add just a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u312	I was really disappointed with the Minister's response. He indicated a number of points. He said that it would still be unclear what the collective importance of this scheme is. We know that very well. We have a very good picture of the risk groups in the Netherlands. We know that we can reach most people with information and that there is a small, clear group that we cannot reach in this way. We also know that the EEA has already advised positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u313	Now, ask your question, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u314	Yes. It is also said that my last point is that doctors can prescribe it, but we know that a lot of people cannot afford it themselves. This is not only in the interests of this risk group, but also in the interests of society because it saves us costs. My question is why the Minister is not prepared to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u315	Actually, I just said that. I have added a number of other arguments. I believe that an Amsterdam experiment should be paid for by Amsterdam. Do other cities already want to join, while there is no advice from the Health Council? I would say: let's wait for that advice and then look further. If municipalities want to hook up already, they'll have to pay for it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u316	We know what the risk group is. We know that Amsterdam has now taken responsibility for this pilot, but that this goes beyond just the importance of its own city. We know that this saves society's costs. I think it is a shame that we do not want to be able to help this group and show that we are the frontrunner in this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u317	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u318	I would like to repeat here that we are not asking for advice from the Health Council for nothing. Let's get that advice first. Let's keep looking. There is plenty of room for the initiators of the trial to continue, but not at the expense of the national club cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u319	I'd like to get on with this. When does the Minister think that the Health Council's advice is coming? He says, "We'll take a look after that." Suppose that advice from the Health Council is positive. How long will it take before that drug is available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u320	I think the Health Council's advice will be there in the first quarter of 2018. I aim to come up with a cabinet position before the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u321	I see that Mrs Sazias is satisfied with this answer. Mrs Pia Dijkstra also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u322	Yes. Is it all right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u323	No, you can't. No, I'm kidding. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u324	The minister says he'll come forward with a cabinet position before the summer. The question then is when this can be implemented. Because we all assume that the Health Council is going to give a positive opinion on this. I can't imagine it going to be any different either. It is provided and available in all kinds of other countries. I understand that the Minister is negative about this amendment. He says: Amsterdam must solve that itself. But it is of course a matter for everyone in the Netherlands who can come into contact with HIV infections. This is a pilot. It is not unusual for a pilot to take place in one place and that is then important for what is happening in the rest of the country. So I would like to ask: will the Minister reconsider this? Perhaps it will be much shorter to grant this bridge subsidy. That also saves money. But it is incredibly important that it be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u325	I would first like to await the opinion of the Health Council and, on that basis, come to the same enthusiasm as Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Ellemeet. But that's really a step further. I really need that advice first. That will be in the first quarter of 2018. If it comes before March 31, I will tell both speakers, then it is me... I won't wait till the last day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u326	Mrs Dik walks to the interrupting microphone and there is unrest in the room. What's going on, Mrs. Fat-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u327	She's gonna back us up, I hear spokesmen on my right. No doubt, I'm gonna back you guys up. Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I myself was working on one of the answers to the questions raised by the Christian Union. I am pleased with that answer to the question about the concept of positive health. I think that is something other than what was just being said, I say to Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u328	That's what the colleagues knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u329	The concept of positive health is highlighted by the Minister. He also says: I think it is important that this new way of looking at health gets a place in the main agreements. He also mentions the conversation in the treatment room. That's all very well, but we have to go a long way. I welcome this Minister's ambitions. If he talks to the training institutes, would it not be a good idea to look at whether this can be anchored in the training courses, so that it really becomes a new standard? Again, he expresses high ambitions, but I know that it is only so little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u331	That's a step too far for me. Not because I don't want to, but because I don't know this enough. I can imagine a lot about positive health care, but first I want to be able to look into the subject myself. The answer I have given you is how far I would like to go now. If it is necessary in future, in the case of positive messages, to adapt training courses, I would like to assess that question. I'm not saying that to get rid of the enthusiasm right now, but I really need to learn more about the content of projects that a professor is currently working on, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u332	Is it possible for the Chamber to be informed of this at any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u333	Yeah, that's possible, and we're gonna do it. Mr. Chairman. I can't think of anything now. As far as I'm concerned, I'm done with my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-3.u335	Then I'd like to suggest that we suspend until 2:45 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work and then the secretary of state of VWS gets the floor.
