ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks. She has a question to the Minister of Justice and Security about the message "Women online 'exposed': Bangalisten are compared child's play."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Last week, a broadcast by NOS Mashup showed that women, especially of Moroccan and Turkish origin, are being nailed to shame in Telegram app groups. Photos of them are being distributed along with all kinds of personal information such as phone numbers. There are calls to call these women and their parents are being pressured, because they would have dressed too challengingly, because they rejected someone or because they had them photographed naked. What is it with people that they're afraid of women making their own choices? These women's lives are being deliberately nurtured. We heard mothers begging to remove the photos and videos from their daughters. Employers have been called to get these women fired. Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Minister whether this slut-shaming combined with the call for action against women and girls is really on the radar of the police. What do the police do about it? Is it true that reports have been made and that they have remained? Is the police also acting proactively, or is it waiting for a report? Does the Minister see the dissemination of data as privacy violations, as individual cases of bullying, or as a witch hunt, as expression of women's oppression and even women's hatred? If he agrees with me that this is at least also about women's oppression, what consequences does it have for the handling and prosecution of these cases? Does the Minister have a parallel with other issues that have a broader impact on society's organisation such as violence motivated by Islamophobia or anti-Semitism? Finally. I am glad that we can discuss this issue here in the Chamber, because that also gives us the opportunity to tell these women what they can do best if it happens to them. Where can they go? Where can they get help? What message does the Minister have for these women?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Madam President. Like Mrs Buitenweg, I have been shocked to learn about the content of this report. It is a violation of the integrity of the body and of the personal world of life. I find that shocking. Let me be clear: it is also a question of criminal offences. Against behavior by which sexual material is collected, with which the depicted person is then blacked out and the honour and reputation are harmed, the existing penal law already protects. Someone can then be prosecuted for defamation and slander. If extortion is involved, the person can be dealt with for extortion or threat. In the case of minors, the manufacture and distribution of such images can also be prosecuted on the basis of Article 240b of the Code of Criminal Law for child pornography. As you know, this cabinet wants to extend the criminalisation even further in the context of the forthcoming draft law on revenge porn, precisely in order to be able to do more criminally in these cases. It's about enforcement. The police and the D.A. are taking that behavior very seriously. As soon as there's criminality, it's gonna get picked up. There is a helpline Helpwanted from the EOKM. It is for children and young people up to 25 years old and educators. In 2016, 1,869 reports of online sex abuse came in. 851 times it was a report of blackmail or threat with a photo or a video. These are mostly cases of what they call sextortion. In other cases, these included persons whose naked photos or naked videos are online. That was 266 cases. Those are really shocking numbers. Mr. Chairman. The victims, whom Mrs Buitenweg rightly calls attention to, can go to the government for help, support and justice. I hope that these victims will also be supported by the fact that we are debating this so clearly and clearly and by the fact that I have spoken out how criminal this behaviour is. I hope that they will see support in this to report to assisting agencies, such as Helpwanted. Finally, I would like to pledge to the House of Representatives that in the new year I will be in consultation with organisations that can help the victim with information, information and assistance. I am thinking, for example, of Pretty Woman, a foundation that does a lot in the field of information and support for victims. I agree that I want to see if we can take that to a higher level. We cannot leave it alone on the lines. I really think we should help people to get this far and report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for taking this issue so seriously and also for promising to see if more information can be done. I think that is very important, as is the signal to really clarify what laws are actually there on the basis of which this behaviour is already punishable. The minister says it's also about enforcement. That's right. I asked, among other things, whether sufficient action is being taken in this area, including in the eyes of the Minister. We also saw in the videos that several women said that they had reported and that little had happened to them. Is the Minister also prepared to discuss this specifically with the police to prevent this from happening and also to see if this has happened? In addition, I asked how the Minister sees this. Does the Minister see this as individual situations, which are always very sad, but are still individual? Or does he also see this as a broader something against the development of women in our society? If so, what does that mean for the way in which action is to be taken and for how, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office should proceed with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'll start with that last one. You have noticed, from all those numbers I mentioned, that I do think this is a disturbing phenomenon. It didn't just happen once. If I extend that, I say that that is precisely why I want to talk to these organisations to see how we can make sure that this is not only reduced, but simply wiped completely off the map. In this context, I would also like to assure you that I will certainly discuss the outcome of these talks with the police. I do not think it makes sense to go to the police on the basis of a number of these cases and ask whether they are actually doing well. Let's do this structured. I'm telling you to do it in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have a feeling the Minister doesn't quite understand me. It is not just about how often it occurs, it is also about what the underlying idea is behind this form of violence, just like when there is violence due to homophobia or anti-Semitism. This is not only something that affects these people, which is bad enough, but also has a wider impact on society. That is why there has been a number of discussions here about the possible criminalisation of hate crimes, precisely because of their extra impact on society. So my question is whether the Minister also thinks that this is also due to ideas on how women should behave. Does the Minister therefore think that this has a greater effect than just the effect it has on the group of women that hits this? Does the Minister think that this will have a wider impact on how women should behave and that it is actually aggravatingly serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Then I am sorry that I apparently did not express myself very clearly in the first period. I find it disturbing, precisely because of those numbers, because something is obviously going wrong in a trend or in a view or something like that. You also described it that way, albeit with perhaps more adjectives. I find it worrying that there is something wrong with the views; not only in the views on how you deal with each other, but also in the views on how men deal with women in this connection. I say that I will first talk to the aid organisations to see what we can improve there and what the experiences there are. After that, I'll talk to the police. That's how I promised. I do realize that this means that we will not only have to take action on the victim side, but that we also have to realise that there may be a structural perpetratorship of a certain type of man or boys that we will also have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Two weeks ago, on my initiative, we had a round table on this horrible problem. I also announced an own-initiative paper on this issue. Can the Minister now, looking at the Chamber and the victims through the camera, honestly say that all their declarations are taken seriously by the police at this time, that all of the perpetrators will be tracked down and prosecuted and that this problem is being fought hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	I wrote the letter to your Chamber on 24 November, in which I also made it clear, on behalf of a number of colleagues, what the legal possibilities are and what rights women play with them, I think, especially. I have also indicated how the police are increasingly professionalised in dealing with this. I explained in detail in the letter that in recent years the vice police have really made a huge professionalisation and specialisation battle. I am convinced that every report and every report............................................................................................................................................................................................. Once again, after the talks with the organisations, I will also continue to talk to the police about this particular problem that Mrs Buitenweg has raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	This really is a disgusting and disgusting form of online humiliation, which is deeply interfering in the lives of the victims. The stories we have been able to read about this are really poignant. The Minister mentioned a number of offences that could be dealt with. Victims are being called in to press charges, but we read that victims say nothing is being done with their report. The Minister says that everyone has to file a report and that he is going to take a serious look at whether these cases are being dealt with. But it can't be explained if things end up on a pile or, even more importantly, disappear into the trash can? Can the Minister guarantee here that declarations relating to this disgusting form of online humiliation will all be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	I find it very unfortunate that in a number of cases people have apparently not been helped sufficiently or have not seen anything happen to their report. That's painful, but sometimes things don't go well. We also talked about the so-called Hoorn sex case. In a letter, I explicitly referred to this. I also mentioned them in the letter of 24 November. I would like to say this first, because I find that very painful in relation to and for victims. As far as the reports are concerned, I have just said that the police are professionally equipped. It must be an important objective of mine to ensure that the policy of declaration is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	The core of how we live together in the Netherlands is that you can be visible yourself. What goes wrong here is that the lives of girls and women are destroyed because of how they are, because of their sexuality or because of their loves. Then the Minister says, "You must all press charges." It is right to say that these declarations do not always take place. Given the scale and structure of this problem, my question is whether the services of this minister should be proactively investigating these events and looking at what they can do already. This is a separate matter from the declarations, which I agree should be made, but I am concerned that the services of this minister themselves should be proactively involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	There's a point in itself. I, like the Minister, as the person responsible for those services, have made a commitment that since the new year I have been going on the road very quickly, as you know. I want to make a very clear inventory with the aid organisations. Then I want to talk to the police about it. I will certainly take into account the displeasure that Mr Van Nispen and you have expressed, namely that some young women, bitterly enough, have found that their declaration has not progressed. That's what I care about. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then we hope those women report it. We also hope they don't end up in a pile. But then my next question is, what can we do to protect these women? That too seems to be necessary once and for all when they have reported it. Are there any means of protecting these women?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think that is precisely the professionalisation of these aid organisations. I would also like to talk to them about this issue, to see whether further protection in life is doable and adequate. Otherwise, of course, the declaration will only have a counterproductive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	There is a reason in the coalition agreement that revenge porn should be punishable, precisely because we see that some things happen more in private. Then it's hard to explain the public record. Can I ask the Minister to prepare this provision as a matter of priority and to include it in it? This rubs against it, but sometimes it is just not pornographic but in a different way devastating for these young women. Does the Minister therefore want to see whether this covers the cargo and whether we can do enough with this and would he like to come to the Chamber as soon as possible with this legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	Two things about that. Firstly, as from 1 November, the police, together with the State's Attorney General, have tightened the procedure for dealing with such cases, i.e. sexting and sextortion, but this has apparently not yet been 100% successful. That is something I will certainly include in the new policy when I speak to the police in January or February. I'm doing those conversations just to give a better interpretation of the bill. In the budget, I have already said that this will be one of the first proposals I come up with in the new year, precisely because of the great social importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	The article on which these questions are based is fairly specific, but the Chamber and also the questioner, Mrs Buitenweg, and the Minister discuss everything in general. The specific feature of the article was that the perpetrators are often Muslim youths and that the victims are often Muslim girls, Islamic girls, who try to escape that suffocating environment. Does the Minister include this aspect in his search for a solution to this problem? If he can't name the problem, I wonder if he can offer a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	We'll take all aspects. Let that be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Van der Staaij. Oh, no, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	We haven't switched people by now. It's a disgusting story, especially when you look at the age group of the girls involved. Then as a government, in my opinion, in our broad shared belief, you will have to do everything in your power to put a stop to it. I hear the Minister talking about entering into talks with the authorities. I think this is very good. They can have a very good educational role and have a preventive effect. However, I would like a little more clarity about the police's actions in this matter. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma's question. Is the police able and willing to do so, and are they working to ensure that there is an active and proactive analysis? These are fairly private communities. That's gotta be unraveling. And then forcefully intervene and act, warn. Is that what the police do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yes, the police have the highly professionalized sex police in recent years, which is specialised not only in an individual case but also in order, as you say, to look proactively at whether certain offences occur in certain groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	A great deal has already been asked by colleagues about this horrible and profound form of humiliation. That can have very big consequences, right up to a suicide attempt and so on. I was wondering whether the Minister would like to consider whether, in his search, if he is going to visit the authorities, that could also be a reason for those who offer that content online to take it off. So that's how we're gonna help these victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	Well, Telegramding is about content that is removed within seconds, so there's not much to remove. The painful thing is that these young women are exposed for a few seconds, with all kinds of scumbag insults and I know a lot what, and then the message is away from the group. But apart from that, I would like to say here in general terms that, of course, the policy is to broaden all kinds of offensive content. We will certainly see if we can achieve much more in the context of the revenge porn bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	First of all, I was very pleased that the PVV also stands up for women's right to dress as they like. That means challenging, or with headscarf, I'd say. But I would like to conclude with the Minister, because he has made many promises. I thank him for that. There were also many things about which he had to talk to various authorities: the police, the concern about the reports. I'd say March 8 is a beautiful day, International Women's Day. I would like to ask the Minister whether a letter can be sent before then, at least with the preliminary conclusions on this subject, because women continue to suffer at the moment. I think it is important that we at least conclude what steps have been taken, whether the police are indeed taking adequate action. We can talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	I am quite prepared to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
