ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-2.u1	I give the floor to Mr Flierman, Chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 27 September 2016, this Chamber established a Temporary Committee Working Method First Chamber. Its task was to carry out an analysis and to make recommendations on the way in which the First Chamber operates. I am pleased to be able to inform you, as chairman of this committee, that the committee has completed its work and that we can present the report to the Chamber today. The task of the Committee concerned the entire procedure of the Upper Chamber. Because this method covers a very wide field, in fact everything that the Chamber does or does not do, the committee has defined its mission and identified specific subjects. In that task definition, it made use of an initial note from Mr Kuiper and Mr De Graaf, which was also the basis for the establishment of that committee, as well as officially prepared initial notes and a note containing quantitative analyses of the functioning of the First Chamber over the past fifteen years. The Committee also concluded that in its work it would confine itself to what could be regulated in the Rules of Procedure and in internal agreements or agreements with the Government. Any further proposals for amendments shall be taken into account in the competence of the State Committee on Parliamentary System, the Remkes Committee. The Committee also wished to carry out its work and discussions on the basis of input from the other members of the Chamber. To this end, it issued an extensive questionnaire to its members on 22 November 2016. 58 out of 75 members replied to this questionnaire. The Committee also asked the staff of the Upper Chamber for input. I would therefore like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the committee, to thank the members and officials of the Chamber for their input. Before I go into the committee's recommendations, I would like to make two substantive comments. Firstly, I would like to say that the First Chamber is doing much more than what is being discussed in this report. I am thinking, for example, of parliamentary diplomacy or contacts with society through the opening up of the Chamber, communication through its website and through press contacts. It is always appreciated in society when the First Chamber shows interest and commitment for what is going on, regardless of its primary role as co-legislator and controller of the government. This is the case with large-scale national events such as May 4 or Veteran Day, but also with much smaller-scale local events. If we do not explicitly mention such matters in the report, this does not mean that they are not important, but it should be inferred that the committee has not seen an urgent need to propose changes in this work. Secondly, I would like to point out that the committee has found that when, in its opinion, the procedures of the Chamber can be improved and strengthened, this is often a matter of mores and political culture and not always of procedural arrangements to be laid down in a Rules of Procedure. In the Committee's view, practices and political practices determine to an important extent how efficient the Chamber functions in its primary tasks. The President and the committee chairmen have an important role to play in this. However, the Committee recommends that the functioning of the Chamber and its political culture should be reflected periodically in the Chamber, irrespective of current events. Having said that, I would like to mention a few recommendations which the Committee makes to the Upper Chamber in order to strengthen and improve its own working methods. I would like to mention some of them, and I would like to point out that the committee is almost unanimous in these proposals. Only on two proposals has the Commissioner Van Strien of the PVV Group made a reservation. The Committee recommends that the Rules of Procedure be amended and modernised on a number of points. For example, it recommends that votes should be held and the main rule should become the rule and that motions held should lapse after six months, unless the Chamber decides otherwise. It also recommends that the Rules of Procedure lay down that all substantive committee meetings are public and that the Rules of Procedure be updated in respect of parliamentary inquiry. In this context, it proposes that the Court adopt a separate parliamentary examination procedure. With regard to the Court's European approach adopted in 2009, the Committee notes that its principles are still applicable in 2017. Nevertheless, it recommends that the First Chamber looks more closely at what European subjects it intends to deal with. Parliamentary committees can involve the views of the government and the House of Representatives and should closely monitor the further development of the European legislative process. In this context, the Committee recommends that, as a temporary experiment, the Permanent Representative of the States-General should be strengthened for two years in Brussels with an additional member of staff financed by this Chamber. Finally, a number of committee recommendations on traffic between the Chamber and the Government are seen. If it is up to the committee, the government should give more reasons for the urgency of legislative proposals. In the case of legislative proposals, the government should provide better information on feasibility and enforcement. The government should make execution and enforcement tests fully available to the Chamber. If no test has been carried out, the government must motivate it. The Chamber will have to consider by legislative proposal whether additional execution tests are desirable, for example if the proposal has been substantially amended in the House of Representatives. In addition, a consolidated text should be available of any legislative proposal adopted by the Lower House prior to the beginning of the procedure in the Upper House. As far as the organisation of the Chamber is concerned, the Committee notes that the current procedure, with great self-sufficiency, is preferable. However, the Committee proposes that agreements be made and that a modest budget be made available for the hiring of trainees for the support of political groups, partly from the social role of the Upper House. It is also advisable to have a brief legislative sheet drawn up by the staff of the Upper Chamber for all legislative proposals which are subject to a substantive examination. So much for a brief selection of the recommendations contained in the committee's report. I would now like to offer you the first copy of the report, Madam President, but only after I have informed the Chamber that the chairman and the members of the committee are always willing to discuss the report with the Chamber, and only after I thank the members of the committee and the committee's official support for their efforts and contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-2.u3	Honourable chairman and members of the committee, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your committee's final report, which I have just received. I understand that Members are now full of expectation: when is it coming my way? I'll give you this copy as soon as I can. So you don't have to print it all. In the style of this Chamber, the report has gone online via a digital push on the button. Three quarters of a year you, chairman of the committee, have worked on this report together with your staff, and the result may be there. Although, as President, I do not wish to comment (yet) on the content of the report, I would like to say something about the significance of this investigation for the Upper House. As you said yourself, it is not the first time in history that the Chamber is examining its own methods. This has also been done in earlier research into the workload and European working methods and in response to the GRECO evaluation. However, this investigation is of a different order, because no sooner has the Chamber's working methods been looked at so comprehensively. I think it is very important that it has been examined how the Chamber can strengthen its co-legislative and supervisory role. I am pleased to read that the committee has found that a large number of procedures and practices are working well. However, the committee has also identified a number of bottlenecks in the working method. In some cases, it is recommended that the Rules of Procedure be amended. In other cases, adjustment of internal working methods is sufficient. And in other cases it is a question of political culture and mores. You just mentioned that in your speech. The report is clearly written and contains clear analyses. This provides an excellent basis for further discussion in the Chamber in the autumn. Without prejudging that, I would have liked to have said here that a parliamentary house must keep its ears and eyes open for internal and external developments and have the willingness to move with it. A parliamentary house should never sit back complacently under the motto: it always went well and it is still going well. A parliamentary house must ensure that the procedures are both successful and careful. Then the content of our work and the vital role in the legislative process of the First Chamber come to their best. It is important to have widely supported views on the desired method, taking into account both large and small groups. Mr Flierman, chairman of the Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber, I commend your committee for the way in which you conducted this investigation. But I also commend your staff, because, as we all know, good support is essential for the functioning of a parliamentary home. I am therefore pleased that the report expresses appreciation for the official support of the Chamber. On this last day before the summer recess you presented us a nice report. We can take it all with us to our holiday address, although I still wonder if this is the most ideal holiday literature. But okay, it could be. After the recess we will come back to it and the College of Seniors will no doubt take good note of your proposal to hold a debate in this Chamber in the autumn. Once again, I would like to thank you and your committee very much. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-2.u4	The messengers will now issue the report to all of you. For that, I shall suspend the sitting for a single minute.
