ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u1	We have six speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA group. Like everyone else, she has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our beautiful countryside sighs under illegal hemp cultivation, with the new low point that Limburg's farmers now have to track the hemp plantations themselves. They have engaged a private company that controls the parcels for hemp growing between crops for them with drones. The Limburg farmers are forced to do so, because the police have stopped the hemp flights, the regular police checks with helicopters. We have a problem with this. In future, farmers will be burdened with an investigative task which should clearly lie with the police. Nothing but praise for these farmers, let that be clear. They continue to fight against illegal hemp cultivation, but should this be simply on their shoulders? The police stopped doing this because they said those flights were not effective: very few were tracked down. But is it not very striking that now that farmers are doing it themselves, precisely because hemp cultivation is being found where it was not indicated in advance that controls would be carried out or on parcels where they do not carry out the checks themselves? I wonder what progress has been made with the reduction in the number of hemp farms in farmers. Is that true? Can the Minister give us the figures on this today? And how's it going elsewhere in the country? It remains special, because it is a bit the same reasoning that has often been followed for the whole country: very little is happening there, we place less police there. Then you see that crime is about to move into the countryside. I do not want this bill to be deposited with the farmers now. I spoke to some farmers recently. A man told me he's had drug dealers on his property four times, criminals in hemp cultivation. He's said no every time. A few days later, his son comes to him with a phone call and shows him a text: you talk to your father. These are the guys these farmers are going through. If they have to resist this themselves now, we are very concerned. We also hear the Limburg Land- and Tuinbouwbond. It supports the whole project, but also sees a number of additional problems, namely no-fly zones. No-fly zones are of course decisive, because you are not allowed to fly at masts and airports. If the police were to play a role in this, could more directives and more clarity be given where, in the end, can still be flown? Can the Minister answer that? Are there exceptions to be made, if properly supervised and subject to certain conditions, so that checks can be carried out? I think our message is clear. We are in favour of the farmers taking their own responsibility, but we, as CDA, do not think that farmers can stand alone for this. We need to see how the police can support the farmers, because there is a great risk that when they can no longer engage in the fight, people will be on their property. We all know and hear the police say that: when real misery comes, the police are always too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. When the message appeared, I immediately asked questions of Parliament directly with my colleague, Lilian Helder, who is present here in the Chamber. 'Cause it's crazy for words, of course. After the field police have dropped out, you see some kind of criminalization of the outskirts. I visit a lot of farmers, also because of my portfolio of agriculture, which I have had for ten years. It's the order of the day. At one point, it was still apparent that unsolicited.................................................................................................................................................................................................. We actually have one very important question to ask the Minister, my colleague Helder and I. We want the police to just pick that up again. It doesn't always have to be with a relatively expensive helicopter. The police also work with drones. I went to Limburg with a policeman with a drone the other day. So the police can do it, too. And why is that? It's the government that owns the monopoly on tracking policy. We can't do it to the farmers either, because they're dangerous lunatics, really criminal gangs doing it. You can't confront a farmer with that, can you? You can't leave that to a farmer, can you? Those people have enough on their heads to keep their heads above water. So please, Minister, make sure the police pick that up again. Take care of the criminalisation of the outside world. It's up to the minister and the police, of course, whether that happens via a drone or a helicopter. We don't care. You can also bet dogs. That's what I've asked several times. You can let a dog like that go through a lot like that, and he's got it all figured out. Why isn't that happening? That is also something I have been asking for eleven years: a lot more dogs bet, a lot more animals bet with the police. They're often more effective than ten cops put together. That's the way it is. Of course, that's because of their noses, isn't it? Nothing to the detriment of the police. I am talking about hemp plantations, weed plantations, but there is also poaching, theft of agricultural tools, copper and diesel, dumping of chemical waste, drug waste. You can't just put all that down, can you? The farmers also have to deal with no-fly zones. In Limburg we know a beautiful airport, Maastricht Aachen Airport, formerly airport Beek. There are a lot of farms around that. They just can't fly there. The police can. Our farmers can't. For example, there are some areas where there are no-fly zones and where they are not allowed to go. Finally, it is not often, because I am not on the committee, that I speak to the Minister of Security and Justice. There's a vet. I'm allowed to call her name Saskia of Rooy. She's been badly abused for the second time, apparently. The Minister cannot deny that he has followed that, because the media have been full of it. That woman put the swan drives on the agenda. As a result of its whistle-blowering, the government has allowed a ban on swan drifts. Now, according to her, the lady has been severely assaulted at a butcher shop. I'd like to hand these documents over to the Minister. You must allow me to do so, Mr President, because I would like to give him something that the lady has given me, as well as evidence. I want that to end up with the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u4	The messenger will hand it over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you. I trust the Minister will get it to the good people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. This weekend I was in Limburg. I thought I'd take the opportunity to take a closer look at the corn fields in question. I can say that they are indeed very large fields and the maize is very high at the moment. I can only agree with the farmers. The best view is actually from the sky. So I understand the usefulness of a helicopter, although I also understand that the deployment of helicopter flights, because of the costs involved, may not always be as efficient. That is what I read in the Minister's answers to Parliamentary questions. That is why I am very excited about the initiative of the Limburg Land- and Tuinbouwbond to control the corn fields myself with the help of drones. Because these drones can make aerial images, which can then be used by police and justice in detection and prosecution. That is what my first question is about, because if you do that, farmers must also be able to trust that these aerial images can be used actively in detection and prosecution. I would like to hear a confirmation from the Minister, because if I look on the internet, I will encounter a manual drones issued by the Ministry of Security and Justice. This seems to impose quite a lot of restrictions on the private use of drones for camera surveillance purposes. Under the circumstances, that's what it says, it could even be a criminal offence. That seems to me to be the opposite world. I'd like a response. But let us be clear: whether drones are used privately or not, it cannot be that the farmers are alone in their fight against illegal weed cultivation. The government and the police must not subtract their hands from tracking pot growers, not even from pot growers on farmland. I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. Can the Minister also indicate to what extent the police themselves, what I call "modern means" as drones are using to detect these types of criminal acts, in particular illegal cultivation of weed in rural areas? Finally, the following thought came to my mind, after I had some information about this matter: can the forces of farmers and police at set times not be more bundled, for example at the time of planting the weed? Then the corn is still low. Then perhaps you should be able to find irregularities in the country relatively easily and then, if you report them, you could expect the police to come. Or can the forces be more bundled at the time the corn is going to be harvested? Because the growth curves of the weed plants, as I've been told, run in exactly the same way as those of corn. If I try to move into the weedler, then that profit maximization wants, so it wants to make sure that the weed plants are picked right before the corn is harvested. At least that seems logical to me. Then you might also be able to detect some activity along the fields. Couldn't that be a good time to take on a helicopter flight once in a while? I also read in reply to Mr Graus's parliamentary questions that it is not the case that there can never be another helicopter flight, but that it is the case that there is a specific and specific reason for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u8	As I mentioned earlier, and fortunately my colleague from the VVD afterwards, I also mentioned that it is not just about weed plantations, but also about theft, poaching, dumping of chemical waste, you name it all. Does my colleague from the VVD agree with us that the return of the field police would be desirable? Those were people with authority. You may remember it from Bromsnor of Swiebertje. At least they were people with authority. As a result, there was a lot less crime and poaching in the outskirts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u9	We have just had a debate on the local police base teams in relation to the formation of the national police. What I think we are all concerned about is that as a citizen, as a citizen, as a farmer in this country, you should be able to rely on the arrival and presence of the police if there is a good reason for doing so. That means you can expect the police to actively look for illegal weed growers. The other side is that when you, as a farmer, suspect that your country is being abused, the police also take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u10	It turns out that the many farmers I visit but also the rangers, who are of course mostly in outlying areas, all miss the field police. They're people with authority and people who scare off. Wouldn't the VVD once consider it desirable to investigate what has arisen since the disappearance of the field police in the outlying areas and a possible relationship between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u11	I do not feel directly for an investigation into the return of what Mr Graus calls the 'field police'. What I do feel about is that I have just said that and that also came back to the debate we had before it is that we are letting the national police get steamed up and that we are critically evaluating where it can and should be done better. That is a debate we are going to have. This also extends to the use of modern means by the police in the outlying areas. I have therefore asked specific questions about drone deployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Grothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it happens: criminals who place weed plants in large corn fields or in other agricultural areas to grow weed illegally. This is obviously a problem for farmers. Now the case is that the police will stop controlling from the air, which means that the Limburg farmers have now decided to use so-called weed drones to see what is happening on their land. According to the minister, the police stopped because the flights didn't produce much results anymore. Indeed, figures show that in recent years weed plants have been found much less. So that's actually good news. I understand that also the drones of the Agricultural Union have not found weed plantations in their controlled cornfields this summer. Good news again, then. I can therefore follow the considerations of the police. However, I also understand the fear of the farmers that criminals are going to take their chance again. Mrs Van Toorenburg also pointed that out. I wonder, therefore, whether it would be a possible solution for the police, in consultation with the farmers, to continue to carry out random checks on parts of the country of the farmers who may be eligible for weed cultivation at the moment. Is that possible? That is my question to the Minister. I have to say that I really like the initiative that the farmers themselves are contributing to the detection of criminal activities in this way. D66 considers that a safe Netherlands requires active civic participation. Search can only take place if people themselves pay attention and cooperate with the authorities. That doesn't apply only to these kinds of facts. Of course, when people find something, when farmers find weed on their land, the police must actually be accessible and act. Finally, legislation and regulations on drones. The initiative of the Limburg farmers to track down weed with drones themselves is very nice, as I said. But it must of course be able to be carried out safely. Could the Minister explain to what extent farmers can safely fly drones in order to carry out these controls? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can very well imagine that farmers think it is very unfair that they should use drones themselves and fly over the cornfields to see if there is pot there. I can also very well imagine that there is a lot of pressure on these farmers, because Mrs Van Toorenburg has already said that sometimes people come by to ask, or at least say, that they want to use part of the land for their weed, and the farmers feel very intimidated and pressured by it. The question is: is it up to us here in the Chamber to decide how the police can best do their job and where the capacity should be deployed? I'd rather leave that to the police. The undermining is, of course, an issue that we have high on the agenda here. I also think that we should invest heavily in this. I think the police really need to have more capacity for an entire battery of cases. I trust that the forming parties will make sufficient money available to the police, especially to counter undermining. What exactly should be taken, the deployment of drones, dogs, helicopters or something else, we need to look at in conjunction. I can imagine, for example, that there are also housing corporations that have a big problem. Weed does a lot of damage to homes. In the first half of this year there have been 37 fires in houses with a pot farm. In 2016, that was 79 fires. The damage is in the millions. Who's gonna do the BOLO? Because you can also use infrared in the detection so that you can see on the rooftops where weed is planted and people are pressured to give up an attic so that weed can be grown. It is a very broad problem that does not only happen to farmers but also to others. I think it is very good that the Limburg Land- and Gardenbouwbond itself is taking action now that the police have chosen to use its capacity elsewhere. However, it is important to see whether the problem is not increased by the fact that the police have withdrawn somewhat, which is why criminals are getting back on track. I hope, as my colleague from D66 also says, that the police are open to regular and good consultation with the LLTB to see if the situation is changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u16	I hear a little too much "it's the responsibility of the police" and "let them use it themselves." But of course we are also representatives of the farmers in Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u17	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u18	This isn't a small incident. We have been called upon to pay close attention to this enormous problem. We know from all the reports and also from the King's Commissioners that the countryside is extremely vulnerable. Shouldn't we think about this with each other, so that we can tell the Minister the sound that the police can't just break up with us because we're in front of our farmers too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u19	It is a good thing that Mrs Van Toorenburg raises this point, because then I am not well understood. I'm not saying you're on your own. I just want to make a point. I fully understand that these farmers are in trouble, as well as other groups in parts of the Netherlands, especially in Brabant, are in trouble because of drug crime. We have had debates on undermining before. It's certainly not for the police to decide what she wants to do. But I do want to see things in conjunction. I find it problematic to talk about a means here with all of us, namely the use of drones. I don't know if this is the most effective way to address this problem. What I really want to say in this debate is the following. I think it's very specific. We are now all debating the use of drones by farmers. I think the problem is very important and I think it is very important for farmers to be supported and helped in the fight against drug crime in rural areas, but I am not going to go so far as to decide here which means is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u20	This statement by Mrs Buitenweg makes me curious. How does GroenLinks generally look at the private use of drones for camera surveillance in the context of detection and prosecution, whether they are illegal weed growers in corn fields or the other examples to which Mrs Buitenweg herself referred, such as housing corporations and so on? Does GroenLinks feel that it is appropriate to allow private individuals to use drones for that purpose, after which the images can be used by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to deal with the crime it exposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u21	To be honest, I still have to look at the implications of this. You ask if all kinds of private individuals should be able to use drones for detection purposes. I'd like to point out that the investigation task is mainly with the police. That is also why GroenLinks is very committed to increasing the capacity of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u22	I'm glad you're giving me that back, because of course it's not about a resident of this country...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'd like to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u24	Through the chairman I tell you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u25	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u28	It is not a question of a resident of this country going on an independent search; that is not what I am saying. What I said is a that you can make camera footage in this case aerial images that are recorded by a drone and b that if those images expose misery, in this case illegal weed growing in corn fields, in your property, you as a resident can trust that the police and the Public Prosecutor will be allowed and using those images in the search and prosecution. Does GroenLinks feel anything like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u29	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr President, I would like to join my colleague, Mr Van Oosten, in his entire speech. But what I do not understand is that this debate is organised because the police have just stopped tracking it down. That is why I said in my input that the decision whether it will be a helicopter, a drone or a dog can be taken by the minister together with the leaders of the police. I don't feel obliged to say anything about that. I've just suggested a few options. Now I understand from GroenLinks that we should not interfere with that either. But the farmers are begging us to help. They can't afford it, they're dealing with no-fly zones, they're suffering from criminalisation. So something has to be done. I understand you're saying it's with the government and the police, but nothing's going to happen. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u31	Then you haven't quite understood. First of all, we are having this debate because it has been requested by a number of parties. That was not my idea, I can honestly say, because I think that the whole subject of undermining and tackling drug crime should be looked at a little more widely. But indeed, we are standing here because among others you have asked to respond...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u32	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr President, we are standing here because a number of people wanted to talk about the fact that the use of drones has been stopped by the police. I can imagine that, on the basis of the proceeds generated by drones so far, that is a sensible decision. This is without prejudice to the fact that we cannot say that we are leaving the farmers to their fate. These farmers are often put under pressure and there is a serious problem of undermining. That is what the police, I presume, will be addressing in a moment's time in the Minister's answers. The big question, however, is whether it is wise to do so by the resumption of the drones flying by the police. Perhaps there are quite another means that the police want to use to ensure that farmers are much more protected. Because I share the importance of that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u34	I would like to ask the honourable Member of the Green Left what she thinks will happen. Criminals read, see and hear that: the police withdraw from it. That's gonna be a big mess over there, and it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u35	But you do make a bit of a caricature...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'd like to go through the chairman. And Mr Graus is still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u37	I live in Limburg. I know a lot of Limburg farmers. I've been in close contact with the LLTB. They're lobbyists, that's not an investigative body. That monopoly lies with the government and the police. For those people, whom we represent, we must act at the same time as the government and the police do nothing about it. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr President, a bit of a caricature is being made of the decision of the police. As if the police have now decided to leave nothing to the farmers and their problems. That's not how I read the decision. We will hear the Minister about this in a moment. In my view, it is a matter of deciding not to use a particular means. That does not, I suppose, prevent the police from using other means. I hope that the Minister will be able to give a tip of the veil about the way in which the police believe that these other means are more effective than the drones used so far, to ensure that those farmers are indeed protected and not unexpectedly confronted with weed between the corn and all kinds of gangs who are going there to put pressure on people to actually grow weed there. That is a problem, and I would like to hear from the Minister what alternative has been found to deal with this problem properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Nispen of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u40	Mr. Chairman. It must be terrible if your land, in this case the fields of farmers, is used by criminals without permission. Not only do you lose control of your land and miss your income, but it can also lead to fear, anger and loss of trust, especially if that abuse of land is accompanied by intimidation, extortion or other terrible things. It's a government task to protect farmers. The land belongs to the farmer, not to anyone else, and certainly not to the criminal who uses it to make money illegally. It is not the farmer's job to protect himself. Fortunately, we have arranged this collectively in the Netherlands. So the people in the outlying areas must also be able to count on the protection of the government, I say with emphasis towards the Minister. Does the Minister also consider that protection against this kind of abuse of your property is a public task? Why did the police stop detection by hemp flights anyway? Have purely objective criteria been used or are financial considerations included, for example that there is not enough manpower? When will the checks be resumed? What clues would be sufficient? And if there are, is there sufficient capacity for the police to take immediate action as soon as necessary? I am asking this because, among other things, the SP has long seen the need for substantial investment in the police force. It's been waiting far too long. And is it not the case, I ask the Minister, that the experience of recent years has shown that there have been no outside farming activities on the very plots in which farmers worked with the police, wherever they were controlled? See the letter from the Limburg Land- en Tuinbouwbond. In other words, didn't these controls stop criminals from showing up in those places? If so, what does the Minister say? And what consequences does he have to deal with this? Having said all this, I also say that, unfortunately, the problem lies with the Dutch drugs policy and with the way it works at the moment. Selling small quantities of soft drugs from coffee shops is tolerated, but we close our eyes to how cannabis ends up in those shops. That's not just weird. It also leads to all sorts of problems. Therefore, the SP, together with some other parties, has long been in favour of a regulated chain, i.e. from production to sales, with strict rules on how all this should be done. Then, too, the earning model of the criminals is partly gone, they will less quickly make the residential neighborhoods and the outskirts unsafe and the police can be more focused on the remaining illegal part. This part will remain part of it; neither will I deny it. I sincerely hope that this moving insight will reach parties such as, among other things, the VVD quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u42	Thank you, Mr President, although the Chamber is still a little empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u43	But it will flow as soon as you address the audience. Take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u44	Mr President, you set high expectations. The reason for this debate is the report that the police have decided not to do any more helicopter check flights to detect hemp growing on agricultural land. This decision was clearly not intended to leave farmers, farmers, in the cold in Limburg. Some of you specifically asked me about that, and I understand that. It is absolutely true that people who live in the Netherlands, whether they live in the countryside or in the city and whether they are farmers or employed, are entitled to support the government and to the fight against crime. In dealing with crime, it is logical that the police, in consultation with mayor and prosecutor within the local triangle, should always consider what is the most effective approach. The conclusion of such an assessment may be that in some areas something new is being started or stepped up and is being slightly reduced in other areas. The reason for the police's decision to cancel check flights with helicopters is that the police thought it didn't turn out very well. You can only use the policemen and the helicopter in question once. You may need the same helicopter for chases or events. It is, in itself, a legitimate consideration of the police. If it has little result from the use of helicopters in one place, in this case in the detection of hemp cultivation, it prefers to use the helicopter in another place, where it can make better use of it. That should be discussed in the local triangle. In there, the mayors will, as they should, provide the local input on crime care. Again, this does not mean that there is no attention to the fight against drug nuisance and other crime in rural areas. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: is it now intended that farmers should take over tasks from the police? No, it's not. The protection of property is inevitably always a responsibility of the owner, supported by the police. We all lock our doors. We're not saying that the police have to prevent all of that. The owner of a farm will also reasonably take a number of measures himself, but he must be able to count on the police to deal with crime. It helps, and is only to be praised, if drones are used by themselves, but that is not from the point of view that they have to take over but from the perspective that the use of helicopters simply proved not to be very effective anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u45	I go very far with the Minister and I understand it when he says that a helicopter is expensive or better used elsewhere. But they've stopped. And then what do you get? If the police stop maintaining at speed, I'm sure a lot of MPs are going to drive up and down home every day. Then they can blow home at night, because there is no control. It's the same thing. Criminals will now use the outer territory, because they know that there is no supervision or enforcement after all. There isn't. That is my first point. My second point is this. The Minister says helicopters are so expensive. We're all gonna be okay with that. But use the police drones out there. Don't leave that to farmers. And bet dogs. Let those Mechelen shepherds run through those fields. It doesn't have to cost much, but we can't leave it to farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u46	Some of these questions had already been asked to me. For example, on the use of drones I come back extensively. I have also made it clear that the message of no longer using helicopters is not: we leave it to the farmers. Addressing organised crime and drug crime is an important priority. This is the second time I have been allowed to meet Mr Graus in this Chamber. The other Members of Parliament know that we are talking very regularly about the measures that are being taken there. They're incredibly important. It is also incredibly important that people, whether they live in the city or in the countryside, know that the government and the police are there for them. At the same time, it is incredibly important that we continue to look critically at what is the most effective approach and that it also takes place where it should be done, namely in the local triangle, where both the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the local mayors are sitting. I will return to the use of other means in a moment. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the development of illegal hemp cultivation. Over the last three years, the number of outdoor farms cleared has been relatively constant in the Netherlands around 280. In 2016, it was 263. In Limburg, this was 118 and 105 farms in 2015 and 2016, respectively, showing that this is a large proportion of the national occurrence of outdoor farms. Again, it's not like it's not a point of attention. It is purely about the way it is handled. Mrs Van Toorenburg was the first to ask how the use of drones by private individuals can take place. She asked me to go into the no-fly zones. It is inevitable that there are no-fly zones from a safety point of view, but then another type of safety optic. I believe that the Chamber has consulted several times with my colleague from I and M or with the Secretary of State of I and M on the risk posed by drones in the vicinity of airports. In and near Limburg there are three: Maastricht, Geilenkirchen and Eindhoven. You cannot, on the basis of the desire to tackle one safety problem, the weed plantations, ignore the other safety problem. So those no-fly zones won't just be adapted for that. In fact, the police have the power to make agreements about operating with police helicopters in no-fly zones. But I already indicated that the reason why those helicopter flights no longer take place is purely about the revenue and not about the no-fly zones. Then I come to Mr Graus' question about the deployment of police drones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u47	That's kind of special. The police no longer run the helicopter flights, but can check where the no-fly zones are for drones. Now the farmers are at the bar. They're gonna have to do it themselves. But then they can't fly where the police could fly. Then who's checking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u48	There are also other control methods than with the helicopter. We started with the observation that the police indicated that the helicopter yields so little, both inside and outside the no-fly zones. Then the control with drones over......................................................................................................................................................................................................... In certain parts of the season it is more visible than in others. You can also pay attention if there is unusual traffic on the land at the time of harvesting or sowing. In short, there are other methods, but the no-fly zones are there for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u49	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. But if a farmer finds out something's wrong and calls the police, the police can't come. I've made a whole round and I've heard this nine times out of ten. So let's not fool each other. It's not like you can snap your fingers and run into the police. We know that in the countryside like no other. In 50% of the situations, the police are not even there within driving times in a life-threatening situation. Let's establish that. But my question remains. We know that a piece of land above which the police could fly earlier with helicopters, but that farmers cannot now control with their drones, will become an area where the hemp plantations will appear, if not already there. Because does the Minister know that the controls that have been carried out have shown that plantations have been found in the areas that were not offered for control?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u50	I know there's an effect of checking the occurrence of weed plantations, but I also know that the police have indicated that those helicopter flights were not so effective. I'm not sure what Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to go to. It is difficult for me to say to the police: although you find that you can use your people and helicopters in other places, do I tell you from The Hague that you must?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u51	This completely ignores the huge preventive effect of helicopter flights across the countryside. This is precisely the problem that Mr Akerboom himself has already mentioned. We have had the idea: we have less to do in certain areas, so we are retreating. Then there's the crime we've been bribing. Crime is horrible in the countryside. We're paying the price right now for no cops being there. I ask the Minister: are we not making the same mistake by pulling everything away from the countryside, including helicopter flights because we think they are not working? No, thank God they don't, because they might have a huge preventive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u52	But now Mrs Van Toorenburg is asking me to overrule the local police and the local triangle. That's weird, isn't it? That's where the stakes are decided. Fortunately, it is not decided that no one is active in the countryside. Luckily, there is no decision that no one acts against the growing of weed. There, on good grounds, it was decided not to use those helicopters anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u53	Just for the record, I get it. I fully follow the Minister's statement that the local police base teams decide not to do those helicopter flights because they have too little revenue. It is not the case that these helicopter flights no longer take place; that suggestion sometimes seems to exist. In fact, I read in the Minister's answer to questions from, among others, Mr Graus: 'If there are concrete indications of hemp cultivation, the police may decide to use helicopters to create aerial images'. I am right that these helicopters can still be used if there is a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u54	Yes, Mr Van Oosten is quite right. That's what I answered. If I understood Mrs Van Toorenburg correctly, her point was about the control flights that are being used preventively. The police, in consultation with the local triangle, have considered that these are not sufficient. The deployment of drones is one of the topics the police are developing. That requires a development path, because the proper deployment of drones requires skilled police personnel. This commitment will be rolled out, first in a number of pilot regions. This started in 2015. They roll it out slowly in that way. Limburg is not yet one of the pilot regions. As the stakes are rolled out, Limburg will, of course, be able to rely on more and more expertise and experience in using drones with the police. Mr Graus asked to what extent the police used drones for detection purposes. At the moment, as I just said, drones are being used for detection purposes. For the record, the helicopter flights we were just talking about were not so much about detection as about controls. The use of drones is being rolled out. In the meantime, they have been deployed in a number of places on request, for example, in a murder or an aircraft accident. The use of drones in the police force will logically increase in the coming years. Mr Graus asked about the no-fly zones and the possibility of granting exemptions. That's up to the Inspection Environment and Transport, but because of the risks associated with flying drones near airports, I already indicated that it's not very obvious to run that risk. It's just really dangerous. Mr Graus addressed the issue of crime in rural areas more broadly. He mentioned examples of dumping of drug waste and theft. Yes, I know the sounds about the desire to increase the commitment of police in the countryside. The last debate I had here this afternoon was about that. The police are always faced with a situation where choices have to be made. Even if you were to spend an extra billion dollars on the police, the police would still have to make choices about what tasks will and will not be taken into custody. In the allocation of strength across the country, it is really not the case that Limburg or the countryside has been skipped. I understand very well the desire of many parties that I get from the countryside as well as from Amsterdam and Rotterdam to get more agents on the streets. I must always refer to the formation negotiations. Even when it comes to the use of dogs, Mr Graus is right to say that these can be very valuable, I do not think it is wise to say from The Hague: best police, best local triangle, you are going to use more dogs. For this also applies that local consideration should be made where these dog brigades can best be deployed and yield the most return. It may well be that the outcome is that they are effective in combating weed cultivation, but it may also be that it is decided that they are most needed in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u55	In Limburg we also have a shortage of dogs. Dogs bite, dogs can start a chase and catch bad guys. There's also a shortage of detective dogs. This is a structural problem throughout the Netherlands. Limburg is the balcony of Europe, the balcony to Europe. Limburg is encircled between Belgium and Germany, it is the province with the most kilometres border. Why is such a trial with drones not done in Limburg? Border areas are known to be one and one is two; the wheel has already been invented that the most crime takes place there, including in the outlying areas. Is it possible that there are already, that drones will be deployed earlier and that Limburg will play along with those tests? I would very much appreciate it if the Minister would just bet it can, because they are going to have to present everything on more dogs and horses in the police. They're more effective than anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u56	Both questions go in that I have to say from The Hague: go do something in Limburg. I've already indicated that those drones are being rolled out. It makes sense that you train people for that, that you start in a few places and then roll it out. Then Limburg can also make use of it. I think it is really unwise for us here in The Hague, as a Member of Parliament or as a minister, to call for the police to use more dogs or more horses or something else. I really think it's crucial that that information comes from the local triangle, from the police organization. That is where decisions must be made as far as possible. Here we are dealing with the budgets, here we are dealing with the rules that work, but here we are not dealing with the exact local commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u57	But I would also like to leave that part of the story with my colleague Helder, the police spokesperson. It's not about what the police can do best; I didn't say that. But we do have a problem. In Limburg there are no-fly zones. In Limburg, the helicopter is too expensive and not effective enough, says the Minister. No drones are allowed to fly there either, so there are also farmers running into walls there. Then put drug dogs in there. It's very simple, isn't it? Why can't we just say yes to that? Yes, Mr. Graus. You could do that sometime, couldn't you? Why does there always have to be so woolly talk? If there can't be a helicopter and no drones are allowed to fly, you put police dogs in there. Basta. End of exercise. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u58	Why should this decision be better made here in The Hague than in Limburg in the local triangle... I just drop a silence. I do not hear an answer either, and that convinces me that this decision can best be made on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u59	Mr President, again. We're standing here because it's not happening. Farmers and the LLTB have come to our door. The chairman of the LLTB, the Limburg Land and Gardening Association, has addressed us all here as MPs in the State Passage. He has asked us as representatives of the people for help because it does not happen. The farmers are left to their own devices. They're policemen. They're farmers. They have to take care of our primary need for life. We must cherish them and be grateful for that. We should not burden them with an investigative power, because that is a monopoly of the government. Farmers have nothing to do with this; they have to deal with our primary necessities. And they're good at that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u60	This is a very important signal from the Limburg farmers, but the point is that the police discuss that signal in the local triangle. If that signal gets here, it'll definitely get to the mayors. I sat around the table with a whole delegation of Limburg mayors not so long ago. Many of the topics we are discussing here were also discussed there. That's what the mayors put on the table, along with the other issues. Because Mr Graus is right: there are many more problems there due to the location of Limburg, including cross-border problems. Then, in the end, there too, the balance must be struck between all these problems. What are we putting our people and resources on now? And it really doesn't help if I'm going to overrule it from The Hague. I'd think that was really unwise. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the images made by a private individual using a drone could be used in the search and prosecution. Yeah, you can. That is what is happening now. Camera footage of private individuals, whether made by a drone or by a private security camera or simply using the mobile phone, can be used for detection and prosecution. The private should make it available to the police. They can't just be put on the Internet. They are very welcome in the search and prosecution. Mr Van Oosten asked what role the 2015 directive plays in this regard. It is still in force and must be seen against the backdrop of the other security issue that citizens can use drones but that they must do so wisely. After all, Drones can also be dangerous in a number of places in itself. But they can use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u61	They may use them, but in that manual drones and privacy, the title of the report, there are a number of obstacles and criteria you have to meet before the images can actually be used in detection and prosecution. I'll just mention them. There must have been regular theft or cases must have been destroyed. Well, I think it is right to prevent destruction. Another point: it must be clear that less drastic measures, such as the installation of a fence or lighting, cannot be achieved. The implementation of additional surveillance should not be possible either. Next comes the comment: the use of surveillance cameras on the ground must not have helped enough. So you must have taken that step first. Finally, the person responsible must clearly state that he is exercising surveillance with the help of drones, otherwise he is punishable. I really think that's the opposite world. I do not think it is made very easy to use those drones privately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr Van Oosten's list does not sound inviting. He's right about that. I would like to say that I will at least look at that part of that 2015 directive. Moreover, it does not concern flight safety, because this is indeed another part. I'll come back to that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u63	Can the Minister take that into account in the already promised information we get regarding the camera footage? We had a debate on this at the end of March. At that time, we also tabled a motion, adopted by the Chamber, to see what obstacles people face in the use of camera images in private areas because there are all kinds of restrictions. I haven't seen any answers from the Minister to those requests. But I may be mistaken; perhaps the Minister can reply to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u64	I think I answered it, but I'll check it out just in case. In any case, I will come back to the overview that Mr Van Oosten just mentioned. Mr Van Oosten also asked about the use of drones by the police. I hope I just answered that question. Mr Groothuizen asked whether it would be possible to check on a sample basis in cooperation with farmers. The answer to that is yes. Here too, signals from the public, the farmers involved, are very valuable. Eventually, the triangle decides on the use of police and police resources, but it is logical that action should be taken if there are many signals. Mrs Buitenweg referred to the role of the local triangle. I've gone into that, too. It is really crucial when it comes to balancing what police are used for. She also asked if the police were open for regular consultation with the Limburg Land- and Tuinbouwbond. Sure; I understand that's what's happening. I also think that this is valuable, precisely in order to pick up these signals and get to work on them. Mrs Buitenweg also asked for a broader approach to tackling organised crime. As she knows, we have a whole range of measures in the sense of extra attention to the police and the public prosecutor. Additional resources have also been used for this purpose. In addition, there is the administrative approach in the form of consultation tables, in which not only the police but also municipalities, the Tax Administration and the probation are at the table. There is an international component to this. Yesterday I had a visit to my Belgian colleague in the context of the desire to create a cross-border RIEC, a consultative table organized crime. So we are on top of that in every way, because we really must prevent the countryside from being affected, corrupted, by the rise of organised crime. As far as the police's alternative means are concerned, I have already discussed the emergence of drones. In addition, if there are signals, physical checks are carried out on the spot. Then there are Mr Van Nispen's questions. I hope that at the beginning of my speech I have indicated that the rural authorities have absolutely the same responsibility for safety as in the cities and every Dutchman. At the same time, the owners of houses or companies must, of course, pay attention to themselves, send signals and lock things up. Mr Van Nispen asked whether the cessation of control flights had to do with capacity problems. No, it's really a question of effectiveness. It just didn't turn out very much. I gave the example earlier: even if the police had a billion more to spend, they would still make choices and then it would be a question of whether they would continue to use the police helicopter. Mr Van Nispen also asked, like Mr Graus, whether it is known that helicopter flights no longer take place in themselves does not lead to an increase in criminal activity. I don't have a clue for that right now. The cessation was because it did not have any effect, but if suddenly there is a spectacular increase in crime, of course the local triangle will look again at what actions are needed. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u65	There is another question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u66	The troublesome thing about preventive control flights is that the Minister can say 'it was not effective, because they didn't find anything', but you could also say that it was very effective because they didn't find anything. In this case, prevention is, of course, very difficult to demonstrate. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u67	Sure. You cannot rule out the possibility that there was a preventive effect because there was a flown around, as Mr Van Nispen says. That is, of course, also a consideration that has been made locally, again, and I think it is so essential that there is a situation in Limburg and that has led to the conclusion: we can use our people and our helicopter capacity more wisely in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u68	Finally, I would like to ask what needs to be done. I don't think that's quite clear yet. What indications are sufficient to enable those flight controls to resume? The Minister said something about it earlier, I also understand that it is a local consideration, but can he clarify it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u69	I cannot apply some kind of limit value here, for example, on the number of weed plantations, although of course you can also use a helicopter for another reason. This may also have to do with dumping, or with matters mentioned by Mr Graus. I can't, but, again, I wouldn't think it was pure either, because then again I'm from The Hague in the local assessment of what is the most sensible use of people and resources, helicopters in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u70	I have wronged the Minister and the Ministry: the Minister has responded to our motion, in a paragraph in a July collective letter. In it, he indicates that it falls within the legal framework. But then we get to the same problem as what's already there. So we will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u71	I'll get back to you on that. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u72	It's been noted. I see that there is a need for a second term. "Absolutely" even. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg, from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I think he is trying very hard to indicate, and rightly so, that the farmers are not alone. Only in practice do I notice, in my tour in Brabant and Limburg, that people do not always experience it that way. I mentioned an example earlier, which we talked about during the break. It shows how very farmers sometimes feel put under pressure. They get big Mercedes on their property, telling them they're either going to use their barn or their vulture pit or their fields. That is the reality of those farmers who say to me: I am standing there, when there has been a break-in earlier but the police have not been and the driving times here are already miserable. That continues to play a role. We want more promises from the Minister about drones in Limburg. That is why, together with Mr Graus of the PVV, I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since 2016 the police have stopped carrying out hemp flights to control parcels of farmers on illegal hemp plantations;]] [[noting that in 2017 drones were successfully used in the checks on parcels of farmers in Limburg;]] [[Whereas the detection of illegal hemp plantations is in principle the responsibility of the police;]] [[Calls on the Government to discuss and examine whether pilots can be carried out in Limburg in 2018 with the use of drones as a means to detect and control illegal hemp plantations on the parcels of farmers and report to the Chamber on this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u74	It's a short question. The Minister has indicated in great detail that a great many of the decisions are, after all, a balance in the triangle. I wonder if that makes you somewhat...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u75	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr President, I wonder whether Mrs Van Toorenburg has changed her mind. Or has this explanation really made no difference at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u77	In all honesty, it didn't matter at all. I'm just confessing. That is mainly because I have spoken with prosecutors, with mayors and with a lot of farmers. They make me hear a completely different sound. Then I think: the triangle can be fantastic, but I really missed it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u78	Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly endorse what Mrs Van Toorenburg said. I submit the next motion, co-signed by fellow Limburger Lilian Helder, spokesperson Police. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Limburg farmers feel obliged to use a "weed drone" to track hemp plants, which are planted unsolicited between their corn, because the police have stopped so-called weed flights;]] [[Whereas the State has the monopoly on investigative powers;]] [[Furthermore, considering that weed plantations, poaching, theft of agricultural equipment, copper and diesel and dumping of chemical waste criminalise the outlying area for which our farmers are not responsible nor have to bear the high costs and that they are dealing with no-fly zones where the police are obviously allowed to fly helicopters or drones;]] [[calls on the government to tackle criminalisation of the outside area, including through detective dogs, drones and/or helicopters of the national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given to my questions and also for his willingness to look at the obstacles I mentioned myself, when it comes to the private use of drones for aerial images which should then be used for detection and prosecution. I would like to take a further step, namely to remove the obstacles I mentioned. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas private use of a drone in the detection of pot plantations in fields, for example between maize crops, may be effective;]] [[Whereas images taken in such investigations should be able to be used for the public investigation and prosecution of these criminal activities;]] [[calls on the Government to remove any obstacles to the use or take over of such privately made images with a drone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Graus and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u80	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg first of all addressed her great concern about people in rural areas who feel unsafe and who feel pressured. I recognize that concern, and I share it. That is also why I have repeatedly indicated in this Chamber, even today, that there is a full commitment to tackling organised crime. The pressure on very ordinary people, on rural entrepreneurs or tenants in a housing corporation threatens to sneak into everyday life and ruin the lives of large groups of people. That is why we are putting a whole range of measures in place. In these measures, however, we must continue to take a critical look at what is effective. I have made a whole speech about the fact that the deployment of helicopters, today's subject, has ended in the end on the basis of local experience. The motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Graus in part No. 400 asks the government to discuss and examine whether pilots can be carried out in Limburg in 2018 with the use of drones as a means to detect and control illegal hemp plantations on parcels of farmers and report to the Chamber on this. This motion asks me to intervene in that local consideration. The problem in Limburg is also of great concern to me. Each area has its own problems. I recognise that Limburg has serious problems, but I can also point out other areas. At the moment when I come from The Hague, whether or not on behalf of the Chamber, re-direct by area, because in the end this motion calls for an adjustment, in a way that really needs to be made locally, we are in fact asking for freedom in the Chamber to ensure sufficient local policy freedom; the previous debate on the basic teams was still restricting this from The Hague. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. The second motion, tabled by Mr Graus and Mrs Helder, on point No. 401, calls on the government to tackle criminalisation of the outside world, including through detective dogs, drones and/or the helicopter of the national police. This motion also asks me to move from The Hague to the use of resources: search dogs, helicopters, etc. Here too, I really want to leave that balance on the spot, so I must also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u82	I expected that answer, of course. Of course, I leave it to the triangle and the minister, the leadership of the police, whether a tracking dog, a drone or a helicopter should be deployed. We are not about that, and I do not want to deal with it at all. But something must be done. Nothing's gonna happen now. Mrs Van Toorenburg said it too. We are really well informed. We have contacts with farmers, even up to and including the governor. We're in contact with everyone. Something really needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u83	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u84	I'm not going home very well if nothing happens, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u85	We shouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u86	You can't let me go home frustrated. I really want something to happen. Something must be done now, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u87	Something must be done, but I do not think it is wise to decide from The Hague on the use of police dogs. It's really weird. We just shouldn't. The motion in part No. 40 tabled by Mr Van Oosten together with Mr Graus and Mrs Van Toorenburg, the government calls for any obstacles to the use or take-over of such privately made images, made by drones, to be removed. I have said that in the light of the list given by Mr Van Oosten, I would like to come back to the Chamber on the topicality of that list of conditions. I would actually ask the authors to hold this motion until then. It's a general call. Remove barriers we always do within the limits of the rule of law, so there will sometimes be considerations based, for example, on privacy or security, which means that I cannot remove some obstacles again. So I'd actually like to ask the petitioners to hold the motion until I get that overview. It's gonna work this year. On this basis, we can then have a debate or decide on what measures can be adapted in that whole package of Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u88	Would it be wise to urge the Minister that this further reaction should not be delayed longer than the time limit within which I shall have to extend the motion again? I don't know what term that is. That's not two weeks, but it might be just before a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u89	This makes it difficult for me. Two weeks seems too short, but two months, what I hear screaming, seems reasonable. Then it is indeed before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u90	Three months, we belong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u91	Then I'll hold the motion for that period and then I'll wait for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u92	Then motion... the motion is always renewable. I think you should be a little more clear about your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u93	I would like to receive the response before I have to extend the motion by a new deadline. I don't know how long that is, two months, three months. I'll take a look at the clerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u94	The minister seemed to agree with those two months. Whether that's three or four months, it doesn't matter. I think it's three months. Let's keep the minister's two months. Well, at least we'll have something tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u95	Mrs Van Toorenburg on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u96	A child's hand is soon filled, I would almost say, but I think Mr Graus is still not entirely happy. That is why I still have a question on the motion that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u97	Wait a minute. Then what motion is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u98	The motion in part No. 400.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u99	I'd like to start with the motion on part number one. Put a stop to 402, because there's something hanging over the market right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u100	I'd like to say a response in two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u101	A reaction in two months. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mrs Van Toorenburg, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 400 more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u103	Exactly, Mr. Chairman, because I don't want my old classmate to go home all frustrated, so I'm gonna try again. We have not written down for nothing that the government must ensure that the pilots are carried out. The only thing we ask as a Chamber is, given that we have been knocked on the door, whether the government wants to discuss and investigate whether pilots are being carried out in Limburg in 2018. If this is too much to ask, I really think we are putting the farmers in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u104	What the motion asks me to do is to come up with an extra Hague check on the local consideration, the local consideration that the municipal councils will appeal to the mayors. Mayors are in the triangle. Then it's not just Limburg. Again, I see the importance of keeping the countryside safe. But from the moment I start acting like a minister in this way, I come into a permanent role as controller of local triangles. If I were to embrace this motion, I would have no reason to be unadvised about any motions asking for extra effort in Friesland or in Amsterdam, which will all be very justified, because there are local triangles there too. That is why I continue to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u105	That sounds pretty clear to me. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-11.u106	You all have two weeks to think about the two motions, because we will not vote on them until 26 September. Thank you very much to the Minister. I'm suspending the meeting for an hour. Then we are going to talk about the VSO Competitiveness Council and Telecom Council.
