ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	The informant is present in box K to answer questions from the Chamber about the report. I'd like to welcome her. Speaking time is set at three minutes. I give the floor to Mr Rutte on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow negotiators, the three other group chairmen, and their seconds and, of course, my own second for the last period and the intensive discussions we have had. I would also like to thank the informant for her good work and the final report. From the first round the scout came the advice to explore the possibility of a cabinet of GroenLinks, D66, the CDA and the VVD. That could be a cabinet of the largest party.................................................................................................................................................. I have often said that this was not the first coalition the VVD had envisaged before the elections. I believe that this was also true for a few others at the table. However, we have said that if this is the outcome of the exploratory round, then we are going to seriously examine this option and we are going to try it seriously. That has also happened, if only because it is important to establish a stable cabinet after elections. As is well known, the VVD prefers to form a stable cabinet that can also count on a majority in both chambers of the States General. This means taking responsibility, looking at what points you can or can't agree on and whether it's possible to build the bridges. I can only conclude that all parties have tried very hard in recent weeks. However, I must also note that it has not been possible and I am disappointed. The substantive differences between the negotiating parties turned out to be too great. Many topics have been discussed; a number of topics have been discussed several times. As the informant has also pointed out, the subject of migration has also been discussed. We have gone further down this road and we have seen that problems have arisen which have prevented us from reaching common conclusions. The VVD supports the informant's final report, including the advice to re-appoint an informant with the task of conducting a reconnaissance to determine as soon as possible which parties should be asked to sit together at the table in order to reach, as far as we are concerned, another stable majority cabinet. I intend to table a motion on this subject in the second term in order to underline the opinion of the informant. Mr. Chairman. I have 30 seconds left of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	The leader of the VVD, Mr Rutte, here speaks about the important issue of immigration. He says that, and so it is stated in the letter from the informant, that it also fell on it and perhaps just on it last Monday. I have a few questions at this point. The first is: with what other parties does Mr Rutte think he can achieve a strong immigration policy now that GroenLinks has not succeeded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	I note that there are many complex issues in politics; migration is one of them. If the Chamber decides to appoint a new informant, I will make this proposal at the end of the debate with the aim of carrying out a reconnaissance, then I will also lay down with the informant in the new round which parties, in my opinion, will be able to make an attempt to form a cabinet at a subsequent stage. Of course, these kinds of considerations will play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's not the beginning of an answer. Let me help Mr. Rutte, the leader of the VVD. It is already striking that he took 60 days or so to find out that GroenLinks does not have a strong immigration policy. GroenLinks is a party that stands for open borders and more asylum. I say, through you, Madam President, to the Prime Minister or, as I have to say, to the leader of the VVD, that every alternative will have the same problems, whether it be the Christian Union, the Labour Party or the SP, to the extent that those parties would like to. All they want is a more flexible immigration policy rather than a stricter immigration policy. Take a look at the subject of the PVV, Mr Rutte. There's 20 people in there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, These twenty people, Mr Rutte, together represent almost one and a half million voters in the Netherlands. Those one and a half million voters voted for the PVV, a party that was almost set up to limit immigration. Why don't you step over your own shadow for once? Now do what's in the national interest for once. Now realize a firm immigration policy and talk to the representatives of that PVV voter, who told you to take it seriously before the elections. They're here. Otherwise, this weather will be doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have news for Mr Wilders. To form a good cabinet, you need two things. You need to agree on points. Mr Wilders is right about that. There are absolutely issues on which the PVV and the VVD can agree, including on subjects where this is more complicated. But you need a second thing. After you have agreed with each other, you have to implement those joint decisions as well, and if it gets difficult, you should not run away. The PVV failed to pass the test in 2012. When the Netherlands was on the eve of a major crisis, the PVV pushed the country further into the crisis by creating four months of political instability with an election campaign. You need two things, Mr. Wilders. You need not only substantive agreement, but also leadership, courage and willingness to confront voters, including their own, in difficult times with difficult choices. Mr Wilders did not do that. He always puts party interests above national interests and that is why I do not find this an attractive variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally. Mr Rutte can say a lot about me and the PVV, but not that we have no guts, not that we do not dare and not that we do not have a straight back and are not an all-man friend. And who I'm not going to repeat the discussion about, Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	Do you mind if I finish my lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	Of course. I was just helping you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	... is responsible for going wrong, even the second of the CDA, Hans Hillen, then Secretary of Defense, said it wasn't the PVV's fault. He was then Maxime Verhagen's right-hand man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Did Hans Hillen say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	You can laugh about it, but even more important than that is the following. If you want a strict immigration policy, stop playing games of the past. Then you'll take the national interest seriously for once. And how do you take the national interest seriously, Mr Rutte? You do this by forgetting what has happened in the past and now, in the national interest, in the interests of those Dutch and their children, to ensure that our borders are closed and that we have a strict immigration policy. You cannot do that with all those gentlemen, except perhaps the representative of the SGP, who are now sitting on the interrupting microphones. You're not gonna be able to do that. It will only bring more immigration and asylum to the Netherlands. The PVV's gonna do it. Step over your own shadow and dare to do it, not to do me a favor, but not to insult those one and a half million voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	I turn directly through Mr Wilders to one and a half million PVV voters. With them I will indeed enter into the conversation on every occasion. This is a wonderful opportunity which Mr Wilders is offering me. In my reply on behalf of 2.3 million VVD voters, I am now entering into a direct dialogue with 1.5 million PVV voters. My message is next. Yeah, it's true. There was a government agreement with a good migration paragraph in 2010. The PVV had made an important contribution to this. It was also a paragraph that the CDA and the VVD could very well agree with. Why was that paragraph not implemented? Because when it got exciting, Mr Wilders' party ran away. When things got exciting, he didn't keep his back straight. To those 1.5 million voters I say: it is a very weak story if you have to bring in Hans Hillen, who was not at all present in those talks, to explain what was going on. And that of the foreman of the party to which those 1.5 million voters voted. So I would suggest to those voters that there is an alternative to voting, namely my own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	I am not speaking on behalf of millions of Dutch...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	... but I can tell you that I am done bickering about the 2012 divorce. I think this applies to many of the 17 million Dutch. It is time to talk seriously about the content again. The Prime Minister was very brief about this: there were problems about migration. That was the whole explanation for the failure after two months of negotiation or talking to each other. Everyone understands that there is radio silence during the negotiations, but there must be accountability. That's important, too. What were the problems with migration? Were those problems between all four parties? The rapporteur's report states that it was a joint conclusion, as if one suddenly thought: hey, this is a difficult subject. Or were they problems with GroenLinks, as we hear from the media? Was it a problem between GroenLinks and the engine block, VVD, CDA and D66? Or was it a problem between the VVD and the CDA on one side and D66 and GroenLinks on the other? That must be clear, also in order to be able to advise on how to proceed with this formation. Is it true that it was a demand of the VVD to make agreements that are outside the legal frameworks and human rights treaties that apply to the Netherlands? That is important, also for assessing the question of guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	I understand Mr Asscher's question. We have a political system in the Netherlands in which a party can never rule on its own. We either didn't have that order or we didn't come up with any, but it's there. That's grown in hundreds of years. This system is based on coalition Kabinets negotiated. In these negotiations, you can't agree on anything until you agree on everything. You might make arrangements on parts. Mr Asscher and I have also done a lot in recent years, sometimes under difficult circumstances. I remember the bed-bath-bread thing. Then you negotiate and see if you can get out. However, it does not count until we fully agree on it. That means the mirror image is also true. If you don't completely agree, you can't tell what the subject matter was where you had a view of agreement, or what exactly was the point at which it got stuck. Why is that? If this confidentiality does not stand up in coalition negotiations, especially if they fail and new efforts have to be made, perhaps with other parties at the table, it is almost impossible to create a coalition cabinet in the Netherlands. I therefore understand Mr Asscher's question, but in Dutch political relations that type of question cannot be answered in full openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	I couldn't agree more. I'm not asking for full disclosure. I'm not asking you to give away things that the VVD or other parties have given away. I'm not even asking you to tell me how far they've come. Mr Rutte says it was about migration problems. We can put the election programs next to each other and then you can see that there are differences. Those differences were also on day one of this attempt. It is therefore important to give more text and explanation than just to say that you cannot say anything in the context of the processes, especially because something is happening via the spider and the media. Then the process will coagulate, too. Mr Rutte knows very well that full openness cannot be achieved in the Dutch system of state, but nothing can be said at all, because then we will not be able to go any further. It has to be clear who was in trouble. Otherwise, we will have to conclude that the VVD and the CDA cannot continue together if Mr Rutte does not wish to indicate with which party it became difficult. I see a difference, too. Mr Rutte says that it will be very complicated to revive it with GroenLinks. If you know Prime Minister Rutte, you know this means we need a morning coffee before it's solved. The CDA says that one of them has lost weight and that's GroenLinks. Apparently, Mr Buma has no problem saying that GroenLinks is no longer in the game. I ask for the same clarity from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	Again, I get the question. Mr Asscher and I seemed to approach each other to the degree of openness that is possible in the context of the Dutch coalition negotiations. However, his question, although formulated differently, is a repetition of his first question. I get the question. I might have put it myself to see how far I could have got. However, I also understood that the person to whom I asked the question would not answer that question. Insight into that type of discussion, with questions like "who stood against whom?', "What subject was it about?', "What was it then?" is not possible in the Dutch coalition negotiations. If you do so, you will significantly reduce the chances that a subsequent attempt will succeed and that parties will be willing to take up positions in the confidentiality of that room once in a while with which they may be a little more away from their own election program than they would like to do on parts a, b or c or x, y or z. It's already complicated. Look at this election result and this formation to form a cabinet. I believe that I should certainly be the foreman of the not so great, but nevertheless the largest party, and therefore, with a special role in this whole process, do everything in my power to ensure that the opportunities for a cabinet to form itself are as great as possible and therefore refrain from expressing itself that can reduce those opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	But this attempt had failed. That's all you wanted to say. I'm looking for a sign of recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	What I'm trying to say is that this attempt has failed. That's obvious. We also say that the subject that was cut was migration. But I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	Well, let's be more specific. You say it's very complicated to revive this negotiation. You say to the man who just stood here: zero percent, Geert, NUL PROCENT, in capital letters: IT. Go. NOT DEVELOPED. In the new VVD language with lots of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	It's beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	Now you're saying it's getting very complicated. I think that's wonderful, but it's getting very vague with the voters. So what exactly is going on? What was the problem with migration? And how definitive is "very complicated"? Mr Rutte, on behalf of the VVD, now excludes the fact that it is going to happen to these four parties or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	We exclude only one party in this Chamber for a possible coalition, and that is the PVV, no other party, not even GroenLinks. The fact is that the VVD has negotiated with GroenLinks, together with other parties. The fact is that this negotiation has stalled at an important point, where it was also not possible to see if you could solve that problem by looking for movement on other points. So that problem in itself was so great and so important in the subject of migration that the negotiation was tied up there, as the informant has all written down, that I do not see how this attempt can be revived. I don't expect you to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	You're not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'm not ruling out any parties, but it would be crazy if you were seriously negotiating for two months and you came to the conclusion with the four of us: this isn't gonna be him. Then that chance is very small. Mr Asscher refers to 'zero point zero', but that was about something else, namely a question of principle as to whether you are willing to work with a particular party. The VVD is not prepared to form a cabinet with the PVV. That is of course not the case with GroenLinks; we would not have had these talks at all. We are not excluding any other party in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	Conclusion. We can now end the debate again and we can go back to the Stadhouderskamer, because Mr Rutte does not rule out the possibility that GroenLinks will succeed in this combination. Apparently, there's some need for a break. That is possible; we have seen this before in this formation. But as long as it is not excluded that these four parties are going to do it, I believe that this effort should be continued. I see Mr Segers standing here not fair to say: you sit there for a while. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	We must then be very precise about what is meant here by 'exclusion'. Where Mr Asscher made that point in the context of my statement in the campaign on the PVV, it is about whether you are prepared to form a coalition with a particular party for a number of substantive reasons. The VVD said before and after the elections: we are not going to do that with the PVV. Mr Wilders and I just drilled that out again. I think the voter understands that. Then there is the question: what is the state of this attempt at formation? This formation attempt is jammed, not with slamming doors, not with big fights. We have established soberly: this is not going to work, this is not going to be him. So you're ruling out GroenLinks as a coalition partner? No, it doesn't rule out the VVD. But do you expect there to be a cabinet with GroenLinks and the VVD in it? Absolutely not, on the basis of the fact that content is not personal, there is a great appreciation of the differences too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	I understand that Mr Rutte is not waiting to reveal a great deal of what has happened further in the secrecy of the Stadhouderskamer. That is why I would like to ask another question, more towards the future. Does Mr Rutte consider that the differences between VVD, CDA and D66 can be bridged in terms of climate, immigration and income policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	That's the same question in another jacket. I understand that, because it is again asking what exactly happened. I get that, I don't blame anyone, I would. But I'm going to answer that question like this. I really want to discuss the views of the VVD Group on what we have to do now with the informant, as far as I am concerned, in an exploratory round following this debate, should the Chamber decide to do so and not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	But other groups are also expected to give their opinion and advice on what to do now. More information would be desirable for this purpose. If, after all these weeks of negotiations, the conclusion is that the differences in migration with D66 are too large, then that will also have an impact on what we should be advising.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u34	I understand. That is why, I think, the conclusion of what I am saying here is the following: firstly, this formation has stalled and secondly, I do not see it happening at all that it is reviving because of the great differences in content. I also literally said to Mr Asscher: the one between the VVD and GroenLinks. But I'll leave it at that. That's, I think, enough information. As far as my further advice on the follow-up steps is concerned, everyone decides how far he or she wants to go in the consultation, or whether he wants to do so in the discussions with the exploratory informant, but I choose to do so with the exploratory informant, step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u35	Finally, on the other point raised by Mr Asscher: how definitive is this break? I think it is very important that we also try to create a kind of new tradition that we do not have pause numbers with other parties, otherwise the formation becomes even more difficult. So can we trust that this is a definitive breach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u36	I have just replied that I do not see it happening at all that this formation is reviving, because at least the difference of opinion between VVD and GroenLinks is so great that I do not see it happening. I have also chosen those words very precisely: absolutely not. There is also no question of a break number. We have come to the conclusion in good consultation with the four of us: this coalition is not going to be it. It has not been said: we need to take a time-out, because then the grassroots can get used to it or maybe we can do it again. That is not the case. We have actually determined the content: this is not going to happen. That is why I can give the answer with certainty as I have just done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u37	Of course, Mr Van der Staaij is right, we must all give a new opinion on what will be the next step from tomorrow. If we don't understand what the big problems are now, the chances are that we'll just start from scratch again and we'll have to find out after two months that we still haven't made any progress. Mr Rutte has said a few things in secret. He literally talked about unbridgeable differences of opinion with GroenLinks. That is the answer if a real leftist party should join. So we answered that question right. But what was it about? Was it really about what was in the newspaper, that there should therefore be reception centres outside Europe for asylum seekers and that the people who could come to the Netherlands by another route could not apply for asylum in the Netherlands? Is that analysis from the media correct that this was ultimately the point where it collapsed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'll leave that analysis for what it is. Answer that, I won't. I refer to my dialogue with Mr Asscher just now why I do not want to do that. I have said a number of more abstract things about this which, I think, give sufficient explanation of how I judge the political situation, but I do not go into the content of the migration dossier and where it was then a problem. I'll leave the media reports on that for what they are. However, it is striking that the chairman of the Socialist Party Group has just made his programme one-on-one right with the GroenLinks programme. I dare him. When I look at the programme of the Socialist Party, for example on migration, I see great differences with GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u39	I know that Mr Rutte is not always at the forefront when it comes to listening carefully to what is being said. I was talking about what should happen if there was to be a real left-wing party. But then on. The informant's report states that the really unbridgeable issues concern not only migration but also income policy and climate. Could it have been that it could have collapsed on all three themes and why did you choose to let it clap on migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u40	I can go into that. The situation is that, of course, we have had the entire government policy cut in the formation, all the themes on which a cabinet has to contend over the next four years. We then found, as the informant also described in the final report, that there are, of course, a number of issues which were particularly likely to be complicated in this combination. We did, Thursday. This is also described by the informant in the final report. Then there was contact during the weekend. We moved on Monday. In the end, it was found that the differences are too large and that this is blocking the formation of this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u41	If Mr Rutte wants to challenge other parties, whatever parties they are, to come to the table, because he thinks that he can do more, especially on these three points, and certainly on that last point, migration, then he will have to open up: where is that space and what has it collapsed? It is only when it becomes clear what the essential issue was that the parties did not come out of it that Mr Rutte does not have to specify specifically to the decimal place that other parties will be able to give an honest opinion from tomorrow. If that stays in the fog, the next step won't do anything. So I challenge Mr Rutte: be clear, what exactly was the issue on which these parties did not agree? Other parties need to know that in order to be able to give proper advice tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u42	The subject is migration, with a number of sub-topics within it, and one in particular, which ultimately led to the conclusion that it is not going to work. By saying more about this, I would cross the line I have just drawn in my dialogue with the Group Chairman of the Labour Party. I would like to say to the foreman of the SP once again that there are important differences between Mr Roemer's and Mr Klaver's electoral programmes on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u43	You should be a little more specific about that, rather than throwing a little bit into the Chamber here. What difference do you find? What's that point where GroenLinks pulled the plug? What difference have you found with the election programme of the Christian Union or the SP? Let me speak for myself: from the SP. What specific part of our election programme is substantially different from that of GroenLinks? Yes, we have many other points in our electoral programme, but I am concerned about the point that concerns this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u44	If I were to answer that question, I would once again cross the line I have just drawn in my dialogue with Louis Asscher. However, if I look more broadly at the migration paragraphs of parties such as the Christian Union, the SP or the PvdA versus the views that live in the circle of GroenLinks, then I see important differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u45	It is the first time that we have had such a debate and have met in the Chamber after a failure. The assignment was given from the Chamber; this is where responsibility is made. Mr Asscher just saw me and I saw him standing. I'd like to build on his question. Is there really a point or is there a comma? The informant wrote in her letter that in these circumstances it is not desirable to continue. Could circumstances change in such a way that it is desirable to continue and that the talks will become viable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u46	I have already said that I do not see a revival of this combination happening at all, because the differences of opinion are too great. The VVD does not exclude any party, not even the ChristenUnion or GroenLinks, but this combination of four or more parties, and in particular a combination of the VVD with GroenLinks, I absolutely do not see happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u47	What Mr Roemer said, among other things, is, of course, true. We will have to give our opinion, so we will have to make an assessment of what is viable in order to give direction to our opinion. So it will also have to be assessed whether there is indeed a point behind it. Mr Klaver said in the media: for now we are putting an end to it. This creates some noise and raises the question: could this combination come back later, could the circumstances that the informant writes about change? We are looking for this clarity in this debate. Once again, this debate is now taking place for the first time; it is the basis for our opinion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u48	I do not agree with Mr Segers on one point: this is not new. Also when the King held the talks that led to the appointment of an informant, debates were held here about whether or not formation rounds were stalled. I remember the many rounds that took place in 2010, which eventually led to the construction with a toleration. So that's no different. So there is nothing new at this point. What's new is that the informant is appointed by the Chamber. We think differently about that, but a majority has decided to do so. So that's the system we're working in right now. Furthermore, I am clear and clear: I do not see it happening at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u49	Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u50	I understand Mr Segers, but I still have a few sentences on this. The conversations took place in a business, pleasant atmosphere. There were no doors slammed. We have established sober and business: friends, we like each other and respect each other; we are all politicians, no one hates each other and there is no big fight, but the difference is too big. I don't see it happening at all that this is changing. Then I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u51	Reference has been made to the earlier termination of negotiations in which doors have been slammed. It is still looked back on in a therapeutic sense. It's remarkable that things are different now. It is to be commended that the negotiating parties deal with each other in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u52	It's always me when it goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u53	That conclusion is on Mr Rutte's behalf. It is important for all parties to note here that the VVD says: we do not feel comfortable talking through this combination, in this composition and in this way, because the differences are unbridgeable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u54	I don't see it happening at all. The differences are too great and the observation was too sober to see openings and to think that it could suddenly be different. There were fundamental differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u55	During the first round of formation, we expressed our concern about whether this cabinet would become a green cabinet, in particular because the engine block would consist of VVD and CDA. In recent weeks, an urgent request has been made from VNO-NCW, 400 organisations and industry to the negotiators. There was another petition offered yesterday. I also mention the climate manifesto of Jan Terlouw and the youth organisations of various political parties. This cabinet must become green; that is a clear signal from society, also in view of the outcome of the elections. Mrs Schippers' report states that no agreement could be reached on climate change either. In the words of Herman Wijffels, that has everything to do with the fact that the foreman of the CDA has absolutely nothing to do with that subject. Is Mr Rutte prepared to look at a cabinet formation without the CDA, also because of the cross-party interest in combating climate change and the calamity that climate change brings over us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u56	I don't have the luxury of scraping all the parties out here, do I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u57	That's what you did with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yes, for substantive reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u59	It's possible now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u60	These were a number of really fundamental differences of understanding of how we look at society, how the political business should work and what responsibility is to take. On Mrs Thieme's question, I say that I am absolutely not prepared to do so. However, I would like to say a few words in response to what has been said about business and all those experts who want everything. I challenge them, too. All these companies say, "We have to do this sister and stuff." But if you ask them about their proposals, how are we supposed to do that, and then add up what they come back with, then you have to note that it is about 10% to 20% of what is needed to achieve the Paris objectives alone. It is also quite easy for these big companies to call for things to be done. Then, when you ask for a specific agenda and how they see it, you get an answer that does not fill out a quarter of what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u61	I am extremely disappointed that Mr Rutte has simply put aside the call from society and the fact that green politics in the House of Representatives has made a profit in the number of seats. I'm tasting a little from his answer that he'd like to go through with the CDA. Given the majority coalitions that are to be closed in this Chamber, it is much better to look at the Christian Union, the Animal Party, the SP, D66 and GroenLinks and to tackle together the cross-party importance in the area of climate change. I challenge Mr Rutte to make a statement here about the fact that he, as a young man who was ambitiously green-right, wanted that very much before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u62	Let me begin by saying that I do not recognize at all the images of the climate position of the largest confessional party in this Chamber. The new cabinet has a huge task with regard to the issue of climate change and the finiteness of our fossil fuels. Here, we have committed ourselves to the objectives of Paris: to reduce global warming and to combat a major environmental disaster. That goes for all the parties here. Whatever cabinet comes, in any combination, it will have to take very big steps. Mrs Thieme is talking about large business. They also went to Spitsbergen. I'm thinking, yeah, guys, would've made a plan there about how we should do it. If you then look at what one takes back from Spitsbergen, that is about 10 to 20% of what has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u63	I object to this. In fact, the Rutte II cabinet has been given a climate issue. The judge also said that the previous cabinet did far too little for the climate. Mr Rutte is now putting business and all organisations fighting for a better climate policy away as dreamers without concrete plans. I find that scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u64	I would like to point out that Maxime Verhagen of the CDA, as Minister for Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation, but above all of Economic Affairs, has initiated a very large transition in terms of our energy supply, including the Sustainable Energy Stimulation Scheme. This has led, even in this cabinet, to the beginning of a very important transformation, but much more needs to be done. In my view, that is sufficient evidence that the comments on the CDA do not make any sense. Mrs Thieme is talking about large business. It is always said that these are all VVDs. I hope so, but I'm happy with all the voters, left, right, rich, non-rich, high- and low-educated. I dare those constituents of mine to come up with content as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u65	It is quite unclear to me whether Mr Rutte is going to take climate policy seriously, even during the forthcoming formation negotiations. I want to hear clearly from him that he takes this seriously, otherwise he will leave a lot of voters and people who are worried about environmental policy in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u66	The answer is: yes, I take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mark Rutte says it is GroenLinks' fault, at least: it is no longer possible between the VVD and GroenLinks. This means that the CDA and D66 are retained as part of the engine block. It was him in the migration. Fortunately, by referring us to the electoral programmes, the debate is getting a little more substance. The main difference between the election programmes of the VVD and GroenLinks lies in the right to individual asylum applications in Europe, in the Netherlands. We now know that this is the threshold that was not crossed. However, it was clear from day one that this is a difference. This can only be solved in the political relations in the Netherlands if you move both. How is it that, on this point, the right to asylum, which we all know must also be pragmatic about how to deal with migratory flows, in accordance with international law, has not been made a more serious attempt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr Asscher draws all kinds of conclusions from what I say and what he reads in the media, which I leave on his behalf. I'm not gonna comment on that. I'll leave those conclusions to him. Through these conclusions, he dares me to start discussing what were, in particular, the issues or the subject on which we had to establish: this is not going to happen. I explained to Mr Asscher earlier that I consider this to be unwise in the context of Dutch political relations and the difficult coalition formation in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u69	That's a little lame. I understood the explanation, but it is Mark Rutte himself who challenges the SP and Mr Segers to compare election programmes. That's perfectly right. Apparently it has failed for reasons of substance and not because of the atmosphere between the VVD and GroenLinks. The other parties did go along. If it fails, then we need to know why that happened, otherwise you don't know how to proceed. It's more than just daring to tell the scout what to do. You have to answer to me, too. You don't have to give up any negotiation. I'm not asking you to. Everyone understands that. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that the negotiating parties are trying to keep each other whole. That fits in with the Dutch tradition. I'm not asking for that either. However, we can see the main difference between the electoral programmes. Mr Rutte is bringing it up. It's about that right to asylum. The question to Mr Rutte is very simple: has an attempt been made to overcome that difference? Is that the demand for parties who might join the engine block? This makes it clearer, for example for the Christian Union and the SP, and even for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u70	Then I have to make a very clear comment. I challenged the group chairman of the Socialist Party because I thought he heard in his words that he equated his views on migration with those of GroenLinks. He made it clear he didn't mean to. Why did I find that relevant? Because, where I do not want to go into all kinds of precise elements on which those talks did not go well and eventually got stuck, I do want to note that there are great differences, for example between GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I remember the debate in the Roede Hat, which I was able to follow very well, because I did not participate and we also had a nice commercial in the advertising block. One of the theories in that debate was about migration, where Louis Asscher, the leader of the Labour Party, took up a position that I recognized from the discussions in the cabinet, but which the general public had not yet seen. The position he chose there alone shows that the Labour Party on this subject, too, has very different views on important aspects of GroenLinks's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u71	I am very fond of Mr Rutte's reviews of television programmes. I like listening to that. I take a lot of time for that. Usually it's about his own performances. We've been talking about Summer Guests for hours. But the cabinet formation is also a bit of a serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u72	It's a very nice program, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u73	It is a very different programme, and we have also been very keen to look at it; millions of people. It's like Trump in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u74	900,000. You had 1.8 million viewers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u75	Now a little more serious, my question through you, Chairman, to Mark Rutte is next. We see the election programs. The question was not what you saw in the television programmes and in the election programmes, because we knew that. We knew that two months ago. Two months ago, those views were known. Let me ask you this. Does Mr Rutte have the impression that there was a fundamental problem with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u76	I have already said that there was a fundamental difference of opinion, certainly. That's what I said. I'm just not going into the subject. What Mr Asscher is doing, because of my dialogue with Mr Roemer, is saying: can you go further? I make it clear that my dialogue with Mr Roemer was on the other matter, which I had misunderstood Mr Roemer. I thought he said, "I like SP the same as GroenLinks on migration." But he said, no, I didn't say that. Okay, I accept that; I heard that wrong. I note that, and in the reflection that we are doing here, it might also be good to establish that for the Labour Party that there are great differences between those parties and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u77	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u78	Really the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u79	What principle was at stake?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u80	When I go into that, I give insight into the specialization of the positions in the discussion. I do not think this is appropriate for promoting rapid coalition formation in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u81	Gold that only for GroenLinks or was that also true for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u82	I can only say that after these negotiations I have to conclude that I do not see a coalition forming in which VVD and GroenLinks are in one coalition. That is a general observation; I will not be tempted to make matters more specific. I have made this general observation here: I do not see the coalition that VVD and GroenLinks are in. I will not go into the question on what basis. In those days, of course, all kinds of things have happened, and certainly in the end, on the basis of which I draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u83	For those who love it, solving cryptograms is fun. It's not my hobby; so I'd rather have a clear answer. You say there is a difference of opinion in principle. You exclude that you still see possibilities between the VVD and GroenLinks. May I conclude, then, that there was no disagreement of principle with the CDA and not with D66, and that GroenLinks was alone at that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u84	I can't tell you how other parties were in it, because that's up to them. I can only say that, as the British say, on completion of these negotiations and given the whole complex of facts, including, of course, the matter of principle that was at the end, but also the whole situation of the negotiations, I absolutely cannot see it happening that VVD and GroenLinks are still sitting at the table. That does not, therefore, mean anything about the positions other parties had on subjects or on the specific subject that was at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u85	It would be strange if you were to blame the Green Left for remaining behind a point of principle and for not blaming the D66 on the same point that they remain at a point of principle. If you do not blame D66, this means that it was a point that only concerns GroenLinks. We're getting closer. We need to go through and search, but it is clear that there was also a difference of attitude between D66 and GroenLinks in the area of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u86	Once again, Mr Roemer cannot draw that conclusion. The formation has stalled on the observation by four parties that it is not going to happen. In the end, of course, this always happens on a specific subject. Next, my conclusion is that I absolutely do not see a coalition in which VVD and GroenLinks are in. That is not only because of the specific issue, but also more generally, when I look through my eye hairs at the conversations and the great differences between our parties. That observation therefore makes it impossible for Mr Roemer to draw the conclusion that in the specific subject that was at issue, the proportions were as he outlined. I really leave that conclusion to him. I didn't give any reason to. I note that there was a specific problem. That was principled. In addition, given the entire state of the negotiations, the political conclusion of the VVD is that we have absolutely not seen such a coalition that was a question from Mr Segers and also from Mr Roemer himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u87	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u88	This is really a big sham! What Mr Rutte is now saying is that there were fundamental differences of opinion in the GroenLinks and VVD election programmes. What a surprise! No, we didn't know that yet. Read them in advance, I would say to Mr Rutte. If he says: we really negotiated and something came up that we didn't come out of, then it would be useful to know, before we make another attempt, exactly what that was. Continue to fall back on generalities like "we have great differences of opinion..." We already knew that! That was for our reason to say: let's choose another coalition. What exactly was the difference between D66 and GroenLinks, where D66 apparently gave the space and GroenLinks didn't? Then we also know what to advise tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u89	Three responses. Firstly, there are also very large differences between the election programmes of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and the Socialist Party. Very large differences, and yet I do not rule out discussions with the Socialist Party. That's one. Two: the formation has stalled because on the subject of migration I have already explained it a few times, a more fundamental issue was also raised, on which we had to conclude that the differences were unbridgeable. Three: as foreman of the VVD after these negotiations, I wondered if I, Mark, see any talks between GroenLinks and the VVD ending in a cabinet in which you participate together. Given the whole complex of facts, I am referring not only to the electoral programmes, because yes, they are very different, but also to how the talks have gone and where all kinds of problems would have been identified in the future, a question that I was asked by the Christian Union and by Mr Roemer was my political conclusion and my answer to the question: no, I do not see that happening at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mr. Chairman. The negotiations between the VVD, GroenLinks, CDA and D66 failed 62 days after the elections. This is in itself a blessing for our country: no Minister Rosenmöller or Secretary of State Duyvendak, which is good news. Finally, after 62 days, we saw it in the letter and just heard it, it went wrong on the important issue of immigration. It is incredible that it took all this time to conclude that GroenLinks does not want a strict immigration policy. GroenLinks, the party of open borders, of more asylum seekers. So it was actually a waste of time for two months. My call is: don't let that happen again! Don't play political games with the importance of the Netherlands. Don't go back to something that doesn't stand a chance. The possible exchange of GroenLinks for the Christian Union, the SP or the Labour Party, to the extent that these parties would like to do so, poses exactly the same problem in terms of immigration, because all these parties, like GroenLinks, want a broader immigration policy rather than a stricter one. Moreover, they have either lost seats, such as the Labour Party and the SP, or have remained at best equal, such as the Christian Union. Now there is also a party that is about to be set up to strengthen immigration policy. A party that is also for better care and for lower taxes. A party that also won a large number of seats in the elections, a winner of the elections. A party with almost one and a half million people voting for it. A party that has become the second party of the Netherlands. I am, of course, talking about the Party for Freedom. Once again, we are fully prepared to take the place of that negotiating table and to assume government responsibility. The Freedom Party is prepared to limit that immigration. In fact, that can only be done with us, with the PVV. If you prefer the SP, the Labour Party or the Christian Union to the PVV, then you want and do not get a stricter immigration policy. If you do that, you play political games, and that's not in the public interest. It is therefore really incredible, but also unfair to those almost one and a half million PVV voters, that the foremen of the VVD and the CDA once again exclude the PVV after the negotiating fiasco with GroenLinks. Perhaps against my better judgment I call them again and again from this place to jump over their own shadow. Put the national interest first. Go talk to us. It is hard to believe that the VVD and the CDA would like to speak with the SP and GroenLinks, and not with the PVV, when it went wrong on the issue of immigration policy. Not a Dutchman who gets that. Six weeks ago, on behalf of my group, the PVV, I gave an opinion to the former explorer, which still applies: research into whether a government consisting of the VVD, the PVV, the CDA, 50PLUS, the SGP and Forum for Democracy is possible. That combination has a majority in the First Chamber and the Second Chamber, and that is necessary. As far as my group is concerned, there will indeed be a new round of general exploration, but everything must be possible. Then that option, which I have just mentioned, must also be a possibility, with the Freedom Party, winner of the elections and second party of the Netherlands; I cannot repeat it enough, talk about democracy. If that option is not possible and it is already excluded in advance, then it is not only non-democratic, but also an insult to the electorate, and then the whole operation is one big charade. Please take us seriously. Don't ignore those 1.4 million PVV voters. Give that second party of the Netherlands the chance she deserves. If this does not happen, our democracy will be the great loser and the confidence in politics will be again a dent for many people. Finally. Personal preferences and accounts from the past should not now play a role. It is time to put the national interest first, to opt for a better Netherlands, to work on a stricter immigration policy. It is now about the future of our children and of our country. That should be the only thing that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr. Chairman. The negotiations on the formation of a cabinet consisting of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks have failed and that is disappointing. After two months, it became apparent that there was no agreement on asylum and migration. I would like to thank the informant from this place for her pleasant and persistent leadership, but also for the support that the table stood by. And I thank the negotiators of VVD, D66 and GroenLinks. It was negotiated with respect and with mutual trust. The formation of these four parties started after an overwhelming majority of the opinions from the Chamber pointed in this direction. It hasn't been a natural combination since the first day. The parties have not rarely been opposed to each other before the elections. But at the same time, there was a logic in this attempt at formation. It was the largest party, supplemented by the three largest winners. The CDA took full part in it, with the aim of making this formation work. That is why there is disappointment about its failure. Because the Netherlands needs a new and decisive cabinet. Economically things are getting better, but the concerns of the Dutch are great. And the assignment that the Netherlands stands for is therefore just as big as on 15 March. There is a need for perspective for the future, an answer to the concerns of many Dutch people. They're not populist, but they're sincere and deeply felt. Those concerns are about corruption in society, about immigration and integration, about identity and instability in an uncertain world, about care, about the labour market and about security and protection in times of globalisation and computerisation. To meet these challenges, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is necessary to create a stable cabinet that can rely on a majority in both Chambers. This will now have to be done with a different composition than with the one that has been negotiated in recent months. A glue attempt is unrealistic. Today it is important for all parties to consult themselves, ask themselves the question, which also answer and then indicate whether they are willing to participate in the formation of a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u93	We know from the conversation with Mark Rutte that things between VVD and GroenLinks are not going to work out. I wonder if that also applies to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u94	In the case of the CDA, the report of the informant shows that the four parties have concluded that it is not possible to do so in the fields of immigration and asylum and that this is reason not to go on and on with this attempt. This is a conclusion established by the four parties led by the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u95	Yeah, but that wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u96	Well, at least I've answered a question that hasn't been asked. That's taken away again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u97	We'll get through time with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u98	I'd like to answer a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u99	In itself, I know this method: I spent a few hours in V-K and I know how you do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u100	Oh, you admit that now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u101	That's what you seem to be learning here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u102	The days pass and the question lingers. The question is: Mark Rutte said he doesn't see things going well between VVD and GroenLinks, because there is a fundamental difference of opinion about migration. Does that apply to the CDA, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u103	I do not see this attempt at formation anymore and it is broken at that point. So that's the most important point why I don't see it happening again. In order to answer the follow-up question, even more fun, that is another style figure in the House of Representatives, meaning that for the CDA, and, again, for all other parties, now the question is before us: what do we advise the informant? In my view, that's a fresh start. It is no different than that the day after 15 March actually happens again, with one difference: one coalition form cannot succeed. That means everything else is open. There are also questions about pause numbers and so on, but I can tell you that if the CDA, just looking at myself, is going to take part in a negotiation, whatever that is, I will only do so in one way, namely to get out. This explains why I do not go beyond what has been said here by the informant, and also by Mr Rutte, about what happened there. There is only one reason: this country, and I say this to everyone, needs a cabinet, as soon as possible. There's no point in looking back. There's no point looking at the side or the ground. Each group must answer the question whether it is willing to participate or not. Now I have answered a question that has not been asked and that is good for speaking time again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u104	Also for me as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u105	That was a partial answer, because if I hear it correctly, you say: no, I don't see this combination happening anymore. But the statement that CDA and GroenLinks can't do it together, you don't. You say: it is as if it is 15 March again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u107	Apparently the fundamental difference of opinion is between VVD and GroenLinks and not between CDA and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u108	No, I am not going to answer that, because the four of us have sat at the table and made the same observation, namely that this is not the way to do it. I dare not say before the VVD how fundamental that was. That's not my call at all. I'm just talking about my own words. I don't see this coming, and I find that disappointing. In my view, the question is particularly relevant for a further period of time, and I think it is right that it has been asked several times, whether this is a pause, in which we take a look around and then continue. I don't believe that. It's starting again. A new attempt at formation will encounter other hordes, because there are other compositions. Then you're gonna have to look at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u109	It's not a break, because "we're really gonna try something else before we do it again."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u110	No, I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u111	No, you're not saying that, but that's what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u112	I don't think that's right. I really don't think this is possible. I really don't believe that. If the CDA participates in another information negotiation if the CDA participates, because Mrs Thieme has just put in a new variant that I also put in the VVD, but there are still several variants I can't go to the negotiating table for a day without realizing that I am there to negotiate a cabinet. That's not a break number. In fact, it could fail just as much as it did last time. Then we'll come back here and we'll have to look at it again. That is a factual observation that I cannot make more beautiful. But I don't see how this is gonna be with GroenLinks next time. I just don't believe that. And then I say, unfortunately! After all, I did not spend two months there and then let it end with nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u113	Finally. It's not gonna happen to GroenLinks anymore. "One of them has lost weight. And it stays that way." That's a quote from Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u114	That's what I think... I get...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u115	I get it. It is difficult and I understand all the jokes about the debate, but outside the Chamber more is said than within the Chamber. Mr Buma said to the press that 'one has fallen'. If he's afraid to repeat that here, this is gonna be a complete sham.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u116	I have to see that quote, because I can't imagine saying it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u117	I'll show it to Mr Buma in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u118	Go ahead. My firm conviction is that it starts again. I understand very well that people think in numbers of seats and that they think: there are three parties with a fourth. That's very nice for the fourth, I must say, but that's not how it works. The CDA is just as well fourth, D66 is fourth and even the VVD is fourth. Four parties, which are minimally needed, all negotiate with the knowledge that they are needed as a fourth to create a majority. It is an illusion to think that in this country there is an engine with a trailer. There's gonna be four parties later. And we have seen that it can come very far through four parties, but also that it can go wrong. Why am I saying this? Because I feel a little too much that the question is whether the three parties want a fourth. Or am I gonna ask that question? Everyone must now answer the question for themselves. It is 15 March again whether, in these circumstances, it is deemed desirable and necessary to say yes to participation in the negotiations. I think that is the first question and everyone has to answer it for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u119	It's not March 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's true, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u121	It's May 17th. I therefore find it unfair to say: pretend it is 15 March again. No, two months have passed. If you don't tell us anything about what happened there, except that it didn't work out, and that's disappointing, you can say that parties have to talk to themselves like it's March 15th, but you have to at least know why it didn't work out. What conclusions can you draw from that? The word "migration" is not enough. Conclusion one: the VVD no longer wants to go with GroenLinks. Conclusion two: the CDA does not express itself about this and wants to turn the clock back to March 15th and perhaps even further. But you can't. Those two months are over. In the 1950s, Mr Pechtold said that he was still fully involved in the campaign. No, what is necessary is that you at least indicate what you have learned in those two months, so that the other parties can think of what they are going to advise on the basis of that. Otherwise, we will continue to rotate in circles. So I have one final question for Mr Buma. What is the difference, apart from the fact that this combination is not working now, that we need to know for our advice on the subject of migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u122	It's gonna be circles. What I said on the subject of migration, I said. However, a second element still plays a role. You ask: what do I need to know in order to participate in the negotiations? I think it's good to know that if things go wrong, you'll remain confidential about what you've weighed there in confidence, and you'll be able to rely on that. That's one science you have. The second is that when one breaks up, one can do so in a way that one is not going to blackmail one another. That too is important. In my view, these two elements are far more important for everyone who makes his assessment than knowing what we have all been ticking in that room. I would like you to accept that if a party joins, that party can count on what we all know to be discussed in a confidential context, as far as I am concerned, remains truly confidential and you can sit there with respect. Then each party has to weigh for itself: do we want to do so and does my party have the confidence that I can negotiate in such a way that I can also express my wishes in that context? Because one thing, it's not about a coalition with small differences, because every coalition that comes has big differences, otherwise there won't be a coalition. It's four parties who have the guts to put down their points and who are then also willing to jump over their shadows, knowing that if it fails, you won't be looking like a black sheep here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you. One final comment, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u124	It's not about blackmailing me or disrespecting me. That's not asked at all. I also think it's kind of a lame defense not to dare say anything because you'd blackmail each other. You say you have to jump over your shadow. You don't even want to point out the shadows. It is as if nothing should be discussed about the content at all, when it is said that it was migration. That's where it ends. This makes you deliberately pull up a huge smokescreen and that is bad for the process. Then you're really far from violating confidentiality. That's too bad. This complicates the follow-up phase of the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u125	The boundary of confidentiality violates where you go beyond what you've agreed to. So that confidentiality limit is definitely there. Once again, it is only there to make a follow-up process possible. It's up to you and others to consider how you want to stand in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. The negotiations on a cabinet of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks were blocked the day before yesterday, to the great disappointment of my group. We have been negotiating for several weeks on the basis of trust and respect for each other's views. A great deal of work has been done under the guidance of informant Schippers, for which my group is very grateful to her and to the official support. This combination of parties was a very desirable cabinet, for three reasons. It is a progressive cabinet that would connect left and right and with that it is a cabinet for all Dutch. It is a combination that does justice to the election results and can count on a stable majority in both Chambers. In addition, we saw opportunities with these parties for an ambitious government agreement to move the Netherlands forward. I said earlier in this Chamber: the creation of this four-party cabinet will not be about roses. There are differences, I'm sure. And yes, there were differences. But there was also the commitment and the political will. The fact that it was finally stalled does not mean that it could not have been done. But it turned out that the differences were too great to bridge now. Today the formation is entering a new phase. The stakes of D66, my bet, remain the same. People expect us to bridge differences, work together. What's next? My group, let me say straight away, recommends that the Chamber appoints a scout from the VVD House, with the task of examining the possibility of a cabinet that links left and right and can count on a stable majority in both Chambers of the States General. Finally, my group recommends that we take stock of the situation in the field of exploration or that the blockades that have already been raised still apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u127	I think this is an honest argument. Here's someone who's disappointed, who comes around saying that this coalition had its preference and says more. He says, "It can't be right now." With a hammer you can see nails everywhere. With Alexander Pechtold you see political deals everywhere. I think that's one of the things I greatly admire about him. Often it's about deals that were considered impossible. I didn't hear the word "impossible" here. Actually, Pechtold says it was quite possible, but it couldn't be now. Apparently, the will wasn't there. I have the following question to Pechtold, knowing him as a great lover of history and also of Purple I: is it wise to put this aside permanently? We have seen how complicated it was for Mark Rutte to say something about that; "very complicated," he says. We all know what that means. Is it wise to close that phase now, while Pechtold's plea for a link between the Netherlands on the left and the right is in the air? A divided country demands that not one current prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u128	When I see a hammer, I always see beautiful things. I know it's "once, twice," but I know I'm not ready for "sold" right now. I'm as clear as I can be. I've paid my respects to the trial. I think that's important. We have spoken for weeks, at least in the end it was 18 working days, but two months have passed since the elections. I think the Netherlands will appreciate the fact that parties that are not mutually exclusive are doing so, so a conversation will never make sense so that there is always the space to meet each other in any form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u129	That's an honest answer. Thank you for that. Mr Pechtold says he has respect for the process. This is also appreciated by the Labour Party. It's better for politics if you're not gonna fry each other off. However, let us zoom in on the problem that has now gone wrong: migration. Once you say "there's a fundamental difference of opinion about this," you'll never get back together. Was there any attempt to look at that pragmatically in the Pechtold way? You do not have to say anything about the positions of the parties, I understand that you do not, but has this negotiation really been conducted to the full? Or is there at an early stage, however strange that sounds after two months of saying: this is going to be too difficult, never mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u130	The process has been conducted to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u131	Is it right, then, that I conclude that there was insufficient willingness on the part of the parties, while the scope was there in terms of content?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u132	I can do a lot, but I can't look into the heads of the fellow negotiators sitting across from me. We have seen in all political maturity that this was not going to work. That's turned into a fracture. I'm already very happy that you say to me: I'm not going to ask about the details, because that wouldn't fit in with the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u133	You can give them to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u134	No, no, no. I am already very pleased that we have moved a lot further in the debate. That also gives room for parties that are now ashore. I say to them: "Shellers, you fools, if you all know this so well, come with me; talk with me and think with me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u135	The first falsehood has now been spoken. Mr Pechtold can certainly look into the heads of his fellow negotiators. That's why he's been doing so well here all these years. That is why I want to get a little more answers to the question. I think that is very important. The other negotiators do not want to answer, so I ask through Mr Pechtold. He's got those answers. Such a formation is incredibly important. What if the Christian Union joined us? Then she has a right to know if she is wanted. Is there an enthusiastic bride waiting there or does one actually continue to sound like the preferred version of Mr Pechtold himself? He was very clear about his preference and his preference. So the question is: is it possible, knowing the other negotiators, that we might have a Purple I situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u136	Any situation is possible. There are parties that are still in the process of 2010, but are now starting to use the period 1998-2002 as comparative material. It's hard for me. That kind of equation doesn't work right now. I want to look back, but I want to look back on the last two months. That's what we're here for. This is a debate in which the informant can be questioned. Of course, parties are free to question each other, but you are asking me what will happen in the future. You mention a party name. I'm not going into that as-dan situation right now. This didn't work out right now. As far as D66 is concerned, we are now looking for a stable coalition that can bend left and right and can therefore be binding. I thought Mr Buma was just aptly speaking on that point. The Netherlands does not expect us to expose where things went wrong; it expects us to hear from us in the coming weeks and months where parties can find each other and overcome problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u137	One last question. So there is no fundamental problem between D66 and VVD on migration? Otherwise, we would have known by now after Mark Rutte's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u138	Some words get a huge load. That's why I always have such a problem with the words "break point" and "principal." One has different principles than the other, but from principle you can sometimes come to very workable things. You read that in programs and you get a certain feeling about it. Then you speak for a long time and try to hear from the other person what it is in now. D66 is, in that respect, a party seeking agreements rather than taking the other into account matters which are supposed to be principled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u139	You just said the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u140	You do not take the measure of the other, it is not supposed to be principled, you are looking pragmatically for solutions. That is exactly the answer to my question. There is no fundamental problem between you, the VVD and the CDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr Pechtold points out that we must look for a coalition that can count on a majority in the Second and Upper Chambers. I heard him say quite a few times yesterday that a large majority is also desirable. That's a bit of a new wish, if I remember correctly. Does Mr Pechtold also say that it would have been better in the past period if the PvdA and the VVD had had a large majority in the Second and Upper Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u142	Fortunately, Mr Van der Staaij and I do not go all the way back to Purple; we take the last period. Let me say that Rutte I started with 76 seats here and ended with 75 seats because Mr Brinkman ran away. The previous cabinet, in which there was another party with more experience, the PvdA, started with 79 seats and ended with 75 seats because both parties had divisions. Then we also had incredibly many dissidents in the First Chamber. In the end, Mr Van der Staaij's party and my party didn't say anything, because we were able to see what could be achieved from the constructive opposition. In "stability" several factors can play a role than just the Second or the First Chamber or a combination of them, I think. It is very important to see how this has been put together and what might still be in the back seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u143	With that back seat we go back to the past. That's not what Mr. Pechtold wanted, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u144	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u145	No, but if I hear him correctly, the conclusion is that this does not mean that there are only options to explore that can count on a very large majority in the Chamber. Closer possibilities can also be explored.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u146	Again, I'm trying to stay away from numbers. I see an overall picture. A total image can consist of numbers. Then it's 76 and 38. These are majorities, but'stable', a word I prefer to use, also depends on substantive matters. Let us all note that the voter, who is always right, has, of course, put together a Chamber here where stability, in principle, whatever we are going to do, will be a problem. We already need four parties to reach a majority. That is a first reason to say:'stability of 76 by 2 is for me something other than stability of 76 by 4'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u147	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. The long election campaign has highlighted the differences between all parties in this Chamber. After the elections, it was very clear how big the gap was that we had to bridge. My appreciation for the parties with whom we have been negotiating over the last two months is all the greater, as is my appreciation for the effort we have made to get out. Yeah, we all knew the differences were big and it wasn't easy. I appreciate most that we have not sought quick, easy solutions by perhaps brushing away differences of opinion in concealing texts, but that we have constantly gone to the core and looked at how we could bridge things. On some subjects, on some themes, we succeeded, but last Monday we unfortunately had to conclude that we could not go on. My party has always been clear. The challenges in terms of climate, migration and inequality are enormous. We're not gonna settle for a little bit of upholstery there. No, big changes are possible there. We tried to work on that with each other, but unfortunately it didn't work out. My party believes it is important that you not only look at where you can make a factual, technical compromise, but also ensure that there is a combination that is capable of dealing with unexpectedities. It didn't work. That means we're entering a new phase. My colleagues have just been asked a few times whether this is the case: is this a cosmetic breach and is it going to continue? I understand that question, because you don't want to be a break number. Let me therefore be clear. Unfortunately, last Monday's breakup was a point and not a comma. We're broken on a point of substance. Mr Segers spoke to me quite directly in an interruption. He asked: why is Mr Klaver talking about "still"? That has a very clear reason. The reason why none of the parties here wants to make clear what the differences are and to whom the blackbird belongs, is because in a coalition country like the Netherlands you will always have to cooperate with each other, not in the combination that we are dealing with here, because it is stranded, but I can imagine that you will encounter each other at other times, in a different attempt at formation or in the search for majorities in the Chamber. That is why I think it is important to point out that this is not possible in this combination for the time being. So you can read a comma there, because my party will always seek cooperation with parties in this house to achieve results. That is what the Netherlands needs, and I am obliged to do so in relation to our movement in order to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u151	I'm happy with the latter. That may offer perspective, but what exactly is it stuck on and with whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u152	That's an excellent question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u154	Surprising too! What did it go wrong with and who did it go wrong with? It went wrong with the VVD and with the CDA and with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u155	So you are saying that you were on a point of principle alone; that can also be the answer if all three have gone wrong. Mr Rutte was more clear about this: he did not say that it was impossible to continue with the CDA and D66, but that a cabinet with GroenLinks was excluded. With this he clearly suggests that the difference was very clear between the VVD and GroenLinks, because I did not hear this from the others. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u156	The difference with the VVD was very large. Mr Rutte is right about that, but you are asking me what happened. With each other. If you're negotiating with the four of you, you're gonna get together, unfortunately, and I'm gonna say that again, I'm gonna say the conclusion that you're not gonna get out. In any case, I am pleased that it has gone this way and not with slamming doors. To be perfectly honest, I would have liked to have seen us come out. I was very skeptical when we started. I think we were all that, but when you sit together, trust also grows and you also see the good points of other parties and also how you could achieve results with each other, but there are limits for my party that we are not going to touch, like other parties that have borders. Then you won't get anywhere near it. I mentioned these three parties, and we are one of them. We didn't get out together, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u157	I did not think Mr Rutte was so clear, but he was even clearer than this answer. In any case, he made it very clear that he had crossed a line and that he no longer liked a coalition between GroenLinks and the VVD. Do you share that conclusion, apart from the subject on which it is broken? Do you now see a cabinet in which the VVD and GroenLinks are in any other form?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u158	I think that's gonna be very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u159	That's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u160	On this point, too, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to thank Mr Klaver for drawing up an attitude that appeals to me very much: we will always have to work together in this house, in whatever form. In this sense, therefore, the doors remain open, but Mr Klaver says that this attempt at formation in this combination will not succeed. He also said, however, that this might be possible in the event of a future formation attempt. Does he mean another combination or the same combination at a later stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u161	What matters is that I think this combination... let me outline it differently. You should never speak for others, but I'm going to. I think that for everyone with whom we have sat at the table, we would have continued if there had been a very small possibility of getting out and then we would have used that opportunity to come up with a combination. So I don't see it coming in this combination right now, but I don't want to rule out any of the parties because you don't know how you're gonna get into a cabinet. I hope that it will all be very successful and I would like to welcome the negotiators who will be at the table, that it will be very exciting and that there will soon be a new cabinet. But you don't know how it's gonna work out and that's why you have to have the courage to keep the options open for later in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u162	I have a second question. According to the VVD Group, there is a difference in principle and especially between the VVD and GroenLinks. Does that indeed apply to GroenLinks? What principle was at stake?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u163	It was indeed a matter of principle. If it's practical, you can still see if you can trade it out or if you can come up with a compromise. That didn't work out at this point. It was a point of principle and it was an important lower limit for us that we did not go through as it was for other parties, the VVD clearly indicated this. The four of us are broken, and I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u164	I think the negotiators have been very well with each other during those two months. It turns out that they all talk about appreciation and respect and that is fantastic. I think that is very good; it is also good for politics. At the same time, something very important is said: there was a lower level of principle of GroenLinks at stake. This means that there was something horrible on the table. That must have been something very intense: a lower level of principle. That is not: it did not succeed in the negotiations, on the content, it was difficult, the purchasing power, no, a lower level of principle. Then you come out and you say: I stand for my principles, they are safe with me and therefore not with all the others who ever sit on that chair. That is actually the meaning, because there is a fundamental lower limit that GroenLinks does draw and the other three parties apparently do not. My question to Mr Klaver is how it can be explained that this lower level of principle has only been discovered after two months, when everyone knows that the differences between the electoral programmes on climate, income and migration are very clear. If there's a fundamental objection, why are you having dinner with each other? Or is the word 'principal' used now when there is in fact a refusal to reach a compromise in substance? This is not in keeping with Mr Klaver's argument that I would like to stress that the parties will have to come together. Was it principled or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u165	I'm trying to distinguish the introduction to the question. If Mr Asscher's point is whether it was a refusal on the part of all parties to approach each other or reach a compromise, the answer is: no, there was a willingness on the part of all parties to compromise. At some point, however, each party has its lower limit, I hope, and that applies to us and to the other parties who sat at the table. We couldn't figure it out. The last few days have often been asked, and rightly so: you have been in prison for so long, why has nothing come out of it? I'm sure if it had been successful, it would have been said that it was a brilliant strategy to take it so slowly, to build trust in this way and to see if you can get out. Let me speak for my party: until that Monday morning we thought that, despite the great differences, we would be able to bridge those differences and that this lower limit would not be reached in our case. Unfortunately, it did. I am very sorry, but it has happened and now we have to move on with it. Finally. It is now said that it is important to know what it was so that we, as other parties, can consider what advice we should give. Eventually, and that's also the tricky thing about forming, it's about the choice that each party has to make. You cannot build on the formation that has been and say: these points have been discussed and there have been major objections to them, and then ask the question whether you can go further. No, a new combination brings new dynamics and new points of view. So you're actually starting from scratch again, even though there might be parties at the table with whoever we've been sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u166	Without introduction: for GroenLinks there had been reached a lower level of principle and so it didn't want to talk any more? I just heard that in the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u167	Other parties have also indicated that there is a limit there. For us there was a lower limit and it was reached. So we could not go any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u168	Was there a lower level of principle for the CDA, which meant that the CDA said "we stop talking now"? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u169	You should have just asked the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u170	You always do. In the drift, you think of what you should have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u172	I'm gonna ask you anyway. I think you just said that we had reached a lower level of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u173	Well, Mr Asscher, you may ask me about my views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u174	I did!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u175	Sure, but you asked me if that occurred to you at the CDA or another party. I'm not answering that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u176	Can you answer the question I'm asking you? Isn't it true that GroenLinks had reached a lower level of principle which made no sense to continue talking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u177	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u178	My second question is: how can it be that the lower level of principle was reached only after two months? I have no comment on the fact or criticism of the trial; I understand all that. How come this didn't become clear until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u179	I was assuming that I had already heard and answered that question, but I am very willing to answer it a second time. We had the idea that we would eventually get out of there and that parties would find each other on something that was acceptable to all, but that did not happen. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u180	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u181	But I could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u182	That was our assessment. If we had considered that this would not be possible, we would not have started it and if we had had that idea earlier, we would have come to a conclusion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u183	GroenLinks' election programme on migration states that the Green Left wants to maintain the individual right to asylum; at the same time, you will have to look pragmatically at migratory flows. This means that you should seek a solution within the framework of international law. Could you say that violating international law for GroenLinks is such a lower level of principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u184	Mr Asscher is quoting our electoral programme. So he knows what's very important to us. With us, respect for international law is very important. Last Monday it was about migration, but over the last few weeks we have talked about many more topics. In addition, it was not yet a race. Sometimes it did and sometimes it didn't work; we talked about climate, we talked about income inequality. On all these subjects, you try to approach each other. The issue that did not succeed at the moment was migration, but there was also a great challenge on all these other issues. I'm afraid it didn't work out. I can't make it prettier than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u185	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u186	You're not making it any prettier than it is. However, the lower limit of principle was reached on migration. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u187	Last Monday? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mr Klaver will soon have to give his opinion to the scout on the possibility of formation to be examined. After the elections, I was incredibly surprised by Mr Klaver's opinion to look at a formation with the CDA. A bit very green The Netherlands thought that was a very strange suggestion. After all, we all know how little green the CDA is. Even from the ranks of the CDA there is great criticism. We have all been able to read this in the newspapers recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u190	I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u191	It came from Herman Wijffels. I would very much like to know from Mr Klaver what his opinion will be. Is he indeed going to say that, because of the overriding importance of tackling climate change, it would be a good idea to look at a coalition of which the CDA is not part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u192	That concludes my speech in a moment. My advice, our commitment, is to appoint a new informant as soon as possible, starting with an exploratory round in which all parties are heard and all combinations are weighed. We are still considering the question of which combination we will recommend. That combination will be made known to the scout and recorded directly in a letter so that everyone knows what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u193	I would like to make some suggestions. In the first election debate, I said that the starting point should be, for example, the climate manifesto of the political youth organisations led by Jan Terlouw. GroenLinks then voted against the motion I put to the vote. I would like to put that motion to the vote again in connection with this debate. I'd like a green cabinet looked at. I'll be clip-and-ready about that. I would very much like to hear from Mr Klaver that the climate problem must also be addressed as far as he is concerned and that it must be at the heart of the policy of a new cabinet. Does he agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u194	Sure. There are many major problems, but the climate problem is one of the most acute problems. This must therefore be an important part of the government's policy. Maybe it should be the top priority. Let me be clear: that is exactly why we started talking in this unlikely combination. We see that the climate cannot wait. I have said this many times in the election campaign. That's why we've been looking for ways to move forward with each other, to roll out the most ambitious climate agenda ever for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u195	Then I don't understand how you come up with an advice to see with the most climate-unfriendly party, the CDA, if you can rule with it, while there are possibilities through a progressive majority. Hasn't that been an option for GroenLinks at first? You think he's gonna be in the crosshairs by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u196	Perhaps Mrs Thieme and I will add up differently. I hope I'm completely wrong, but the last time I counted, the climate majority that was there in a previous period was no longer there. That also means that to find majorities you have to look at parties that are a little further away from you. If Mrs Thieme asks if the CDA was close to us in terms of climate views, I can say that there was some distance to bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u197	I'm also sure that was a big problem with the CDA. Then I'll see how the VVD is in it. Once upon a time, we were able to learn about Mr Rutte's green-right dreams. I cannot imagine Mr Klaver overlooking it and thinking that there is no majority on the green right because of all the green parties. Why is there so little creativity? Why was it so necessary to talk to the CDA, when you knew there was an incredible gap between the climate plans of GroenLinks and the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u198	I do not want to clap the discussion out of the school, but the differences with the VVD were also large in this area and also asked for some bridging. You are now trying to show a very big difference between these parties, but both were a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u199	Finalizing, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u200	Then it becomes very difficult for GroenLinks, as a smaller party, when there is such a climate-unfriendly engine block of CDA and VVD. However, if you pull one out and add another green party, we can all count on our fingers that you will be stronger. I do not think that GroenLinks has been strategic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u201	This was a review. I'm trying to add majorities. Would I, sorry guys, have liked to trade in one of these parties for a party closer to us in terms of ideas? Yes, I'd love to! I think it's the other way around. This has been a little too enthusiastic; it is still going wrong. Now we've all kept it dry and I'm gonna go. Of course I would have. That's what the others would have wanted. But why were we in this unlikely combination? Because you have to add to a majority. Those other majorities, which are all green, all left or all right, are not there. That is the very complicated situation we are now in. That is why I and my group have done so with great conviction over the last few weeks. That is why I mean it when I say that we are very upset that it did not work out. Finally, I would like to take the last second I have used to thank the informant for her efforts to manage the mess that we can also be at the table during the meetings. I would also like to express my deep appreciation for official support and for the way in which it has tried to help us get closer together. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u202	I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u203	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the informant, Mrs Schippers, for the report. It concludes that the differences in substance in the areas of income policy, migration and climate between the parties are too great for agreement to be reached. That wasn't a surprise for me. I ask the informant why it took so long before this conclusion could be drawn. Why was these disputes really negotiated after two months, when it was already clear at the beginning that these were the difficult issues? On Monday we heard the informant say that no one is to blame for this failed attempt. In the meantime we know a little more and we saw very clearly that the differences between GroenLinks and the VVD are unbridgeable. However, I would like to ask the informant: what concrete proposals were responsible for this break-up and who was responsible for it? There is also a need for clarity on the issues on which agreement has been reached. What subjects were there provisional agreements on? Were there any agreements on care and safety, for example, and what were they all about? In the letter from the informant we read that officials and other advisers have provided technical explanations on all kinds of matters. This means that these four groups have information that the rest of the Chamber does not have. As far as I am concerned, that information should be made public and sent to the Chamber. I'm going through the chairman to ask the informant to take care of that today. The Cabinet is a missionary, but the Chamber isn't. The negotiations for a new cabinet will, at least, take a long time. It is neither good nor necessary for the Chamber to speak of anything during the negotiations. Certainly, major changes cannot be left to a missionary cabinet, but this country must be ruled and, above all, urgent human problems must be solved. It's possible. For example, there is a large majority in this Chamber to begin to relieve the enormous workload in education, police and care. Most parties want to reduce their own risk in healthcare. So we can take a first step next week to do something for the one million people who cannot pay for their care costs. I also ask the Chamber: why should we wait for that? Finally, the VVD came out of the elections as the largest group. It was therefore logical that this party should be the first to take the initiative to create a new cabinet. But the preference of the VVD has been negotiated in vain for two months now. That's why it would be good to throw up the stick now. It now has our preference to appoint a explorer from a non-VVD house who is going to investigate the possibility of a stable government, especially now that the VVD also excludes GroenLinks in addition to the PVV. We are talking about a government that breaks with the politics of every man for himself and invests in coherence, security and solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mr Roemer is now talking about the informant, but there is another point that is relevant to the follow-up in which the SP also plays a role: until now, the SP has excluded the VVD as a possible coalition partner. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u205	That remains the case, and after today it has actually only been confirmed. You know our first preference, and that will also be my advice tomorrow or after tomorrow when we get an invitation from the new informant, namely: a centre-left cabinet, let's investigate that. So I'm inviting you, too, because you're in that list. So, as far as I'm concerned, let's get to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u206	I am very honoured that Mr Roemer is so keen to form a cabinet under my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u207	I'd say "take that chance," because I don't say that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u208	I would certainly seize that opportunity, of course, but there is also something like realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u209	Yes, you meant your first question about the SP and the VVD together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u210	Well no, the realism at the moment is that we have had elections on March 15 which, due to a strange twist of fate, has become not the CDA the biggest but the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u211	Yes, what did you do wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u212	Where you have just said that the Netherlands needs to create a cabinet as a matter of priority, this means that it really is not going to be a cabinet consisting of, I believe, seven parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u213	Six.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u214	You have counted better than I, six parties, of which Mrs Thieme's party, who I think hates the CDA, seems to be part...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u215	It's possible. We can talk about that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u216	...so that a cabinet like that is not realistic. That is why the question to you at the moment is much more pregnant. You can't get away with a coalition that isn't gonna get there because I can already say that the CDA isn't gonna advise that; that doesn't make sense. So the question lies with you. Do you choose to stand aside in this assembly or do you choose to do what Mr. Klaver did in the end? In the end it didn't work out because I have the guts, the confidence that I can do it and I know that I may not manage with four different parties in the end but my responsibility tells me that I am going to give it a genuine try?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u217	I even have the guts to try to make a cabinet with six parties that are closer together. That seems more realistic and logical to me. So if anyone should take a step here and step over his shadow and try, then I challenge you, Mr Buma: take this opportunity and let's see if we can get out together. Everyone knows that this election result is a very difficult one. We have already seen in the previous cabinet where it leads if you try to put parties that are far apart from each other together in a loft. We have also seen what it has led to over the past two months: unbridgeable differences of insight that you could have mentioned in advance. That's why I'm saying don't want that. We're not gonna throw away another two months. Let's honestly look at a "I'm just going to name it "social christian variant' in order to try to really help the Netherlands move forward in the next few years in terms of solidarity and cohesion. I'd like to pick up that glove with you and with Mr. Pechtold. Let's try that and let's give that advice to the informant together tomorrow and start serious negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u218	I really think it is a complete runaway from the reality that exists in the Netherlands after the elections. I believe that there will be a time when the SP will have to go beyond the level of this kind of politics. You have always said: once it was against the party and then it got ahead of the party. You want, I hope, to achieve something. I want to do something, too. It is quite exceptional in this country that you pass the biggest party and say: the CDA with nineteen seats will solve it with five other parties. I just don't think that's realistic and it's not gonna happen. Then I find it incomprehensible to you that you say, even before the advice has to be given, that I am not doing it. Have the guts. Get on with the negotiations. There could be more similarities between us than Mr Roemer thinks. In some areas we may be partners at the table. I think we can go further than Mr Roemer thinks. I therefore think it is bad for the Netherlands, bad for the SP.................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u219	Let's be clear about what I'm saying. I'm happy to join you. Yes, I also believe that there are a lot of similarities between the SP and the CDA that we can find each other on. If we put the basic principles of our parties together, we share many principles. I am confident that we can come a long way in this respect. But that is fundamentally different from the basic choices made by the VVD and made in recent years. Mr Buma talks about'realism'. I find it extremely unrealistic to think that the SP is so easily moving towards such a right-wing block with the most neoliberal party in the Netherlands, the VVD, which has been constantly on the buttons over the last 30 years and which we have constantly fought against. The whole of the Netherlands knows that this is totally unrealistic. I put the challenge to Mr Buma. He claims that there are agreements between our parties. We will be able to find each other in a number of areas. This will be difficult in a number of other areas. Then let us be that engine block, perhaps with Mr Pechtold as well. Let's just three of us be that engine block. But do not bring in the policies of the last 30 years, because we will never get out of them. I challenge Mr Buma to step over his shadow and join me in forming a Christian left-wing social cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u220	The almost begging to get me into the Tower is getting more and more tempting. Let me start with that. If necessary, I am prepared to even without my group...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u221	...to cross over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u222	And the vice prime minister's already standing next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u223	We're gonna figure it out. I knew it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u224	However, Mr Roemer feels my slightly ironic undertone: it is not going to happen. It's unrealistic. It's so weird. It is not for the Netherlands to explain. That is why I am referring to reality in the Netherlands at the moment. The SP just has a job in there. Mr Roemer talked about the neoliberal of the VVD. Then we'll negotiate with the VVD. I'm not into liberalism either. The CDA has completely different principles. We sometimes have issues with GroenLinks and D66 about identity and the like. These are important subjects, but at least have the courage to start! Mr Roemer does not have that, only under my direction!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u225	Mr Buma should be charmed by that. Let's try that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u226	I'm trying to listen carefully. Such a right-hand block, Mr Roemer calls it. Does this mean that the combination of the CDA and the VVD is a problem?I think he's looking at D66 slightly differently, or the CDA or the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u227	Mr Pechtold knows our position. That hasn't changed. Today there is no reason to change that position either. Our position has only been confirmed. I would like to talk to Mr Pechtold about a center-left cabinet. As far as I'm concerned, we'll start tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u228	Does the SP then exclude the VVD in the same form as the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u229	The reasons may be different, but we have already indicated in advance that we are not going to sit in a cabinet with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u230	Mr Roemer now excludes 53 seats in cooperation with the SP after the voter has spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u231	Mr Pechtold excluded the PVV. The VVD excludes the PVV. The VVD now also excludes GroenLinks, at least about. That's not so weird in itself. Mr Pechtold also has good reason not to sit in the cabinet with the PVV. You want to uphold a number of principles as a party. People voted on Mr Pechtold's party and on my party for what we are, for our ideals, for what we deliver and for what we can deliver. That is also a form of realism: that you want to cooperate, and we show to the whole country that we can do so in a cabinet in which you can achieve as many of your ideals as possible. That you have to negotiate and put water on the wine, everyone understands; so do I. But the wine must stay to drink. I would have preferred to do it with fewer parties, but the result is as it is. It is very clear to us that our option is to form a center-left cabinet, with the CDA and indeed with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u232	Of course, it can vary in degrees, but if two months after the elections you have been able to work well on you, the largest and the second largest party, together excluding more than a third of the number of seats, then you do indeed have very tight margins and you almost force yourself to only one variant. Mr Roemer is very clear about that. That is the variant where he not only wants to seduce the CDA but also D66 to think about it. Can Mr Roemer tell me what he has done in the last two months, since 15 March, to explore such a variant, which he knows is one of the few who sees it as the first variant? What initiatives has he taken to do that? I am referring to the period towards the first exploration and, for example, to the last 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u233	We have clearly indicated the first exploration that this is our first variant. Yes, there are still variants mentioned, by you and by others, who are not my choice. It's like marrying: you might want to, but you're both gonna have to say yes. You're gonna have to wait at some point until the time is right to investigate. As far as I am concerned, the time has come to investigate this. I sincerely hope that the other parties will now agree with me. If you want to examine another form first: be my guest. Well, I guess I'm just gonna go wait a little longer. But don't force me to talk to parties you know in advance that the differences are so big that you're just a sidecar who has to turn in his ideals. People didn't vote for the SP for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u234	Mr. Chairman. I have to say with you that this was not the beginning of an answer to my question. I would like to comment on the image that Mr Roemer himself sketches of a marriage. You can marry someone by going to the civil servant and starting the conversation there. That's the scout in this case. But usually a period precedes that, which used to be very traditional in the back row of the cinema, or more modern: by just popping away and thinking "clicks it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u235	It was quite fun, you know, in the back of that movie theater, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u236	You have a lot of comments and a lot of criticism. You have grown from a tomato and "no" party in recent years in provinces, cities and even in the largest city to a constructive administrative party. Under your command. I ask you: what have you done over the past two months to ensure that six parties can think as far as they say: yes Roemer, I would like to talk about this under the leadership of the civil servant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u237	The answer is very simple, Mr Pechtold: wait until the time is right. If you're negotiating with four parties, there's no point in calling you or calling Mr. Buma. In fact, even in a public debate, we do not even get an answer. Even if you don't like it, it means you're gonna have to wait and see if this is gonna be a success. I'd have preferred it different. I had another first choice. But as I said, other parties will have to do the same. Sometimes you do have to wait until other variants have proved impossible.................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's the variant I'd like to examine with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u238	I am now approaching the border of amazement or irritation. Yes, there have been negotiations between four parties, but before that there was a very wide period in which you could have explored the preferred variant you wanted. At that time, the first steps could have been taken to gain a basis of trust and to ask if it makes sense. In recent days, too, there has been an opportunity for the leader of a party of the same size as GroenLinks to take that initiative. I will never quote from conversations I have with others in confidence, but in your case I can't, because you have never contacted me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u239	That is very strange, Mr Pechtold, because it was still in the newspaper that we had dinner together in the building of D66 in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u240	Tell me, Mr. Pechtold, what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u241	Very happy. Indeed, last summer with the top of my party I invited the top of the SP, because I thought it was time, at a time of so much fragmentation, that also parties who probably won't be sitting next to each other in that field should explore the possibility, because there is a lot at stake. Indeed, I have a whole evening of this, and I can refer to it now because you are also speaking with you and your people, Mr Roemer. It was precisely the intention to see whether what could be done in Amsterdam, in Brabant, in Leiden, in Utrecht, in Zuid-Holland and anywhere else, not only between SP and D66, but in all these places also between SP, D66 and VVD, could not be done here. I put that hand out then and I find it disappointing that since 15 March I have not been able to see that it is in the SP's willingness to do so. You then isolate, on less than 100 seats, knowing that there are a lot of parties needed to do that, means getting off shore, showing helmsmanship and leadership. I challenge you now. If you want your variant seriously on the table, I challenge you to be open to other variants as well. Blocking the PVV can be explained for many reasons. Almost all parties do it. But blocking cooperation with a party that you work with in provinces, in municipalities and in the capital, constructively and for years, I do not think can be done. That requires an explanation. My approach is this: I would like to think about your variant, but I also want you to think about other variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u242	I know what you're saying. I understand you, because you're in the position of D66. You didn't put that under any seats or benches either. You'd like a cabinet in which D66 holds a middle position. That would have been the ideal position for D66. That's why you were so upset that the now failed variant didn't go through. You saw that position for D66 might have been ideal. I understand that, and I understand that, from your position. In that position, you could have played a binding role, and you could probably have obtained the best of what was in your election programme. I understand that, but the situation of the SP is a different one. We are not a middle party that easily joins and joins everywhere, because we stand for what we stand for. So please do not blame me for going for an option in which we too are trying to achieve as much of our ideals as possible. Let us look at the substance of what we have done in recent years. Then you will see that we differ substantially from the VVD on all the important issues that we have been concerned about over the last 20 years. I call the care, the economy, you name them. That is why our preference, because we want to drive, is the combination that I now mention. I would have preferred to have done it with fewer parties, but also a cabinet with two parties could fall. You always have a guarantee up to the door. However, I would like to say one thing to Mr Pechtold: if other parties are prepared to investigate this, they can expect a very constructive attitude from me and from the SP to make this a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u243	Mr Roemer is challenging me now. I kind of like that. What's a middle game? When it comes to climate, D66 is anything but a middle party. When it comes to migration and asylum, D66 is anything but a middle party; I have experienced that in the past two months. When it comes to medical-ethical themes, D66 is a radical party and perhaps the SP is more of a conservative party. Negotiating means estimating where to find each other, for the sake of the country. This is a country where there is no longer any need to make heavy cuts at the moment. But this is also a country in which I hear every night from SP'ers that there is a need to invest in teachers' salaries, in care. Now I ask the leader of the SP: are you gonna watch for four years, or are you gonna get your hands dirty? Maybe that last one isn't even necessary. Are you gonna put your hands out and make sure there's an investment? A party whose members of the political groups have been here in the Chamber since 1994 cannot still say: with those not, with those not. You can't then say to the hundred that remain: boys, work together and have faith in it, but only after we've been to the scout. Mr Roemer, I challenge you once again and I would like an answer to my question. You want your variant, but are you open to other variants, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u244	I'm gonna go into your invitation to get out with six of them. I am not going to do that with a party that has constantly blocked it in recent years. Please, Mr. Pechtold, I'll be at your table tomorrow to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u245	I have had the luxury of sitting at the table with Mr Pechtold for two months, so I understand him well, but Mr Roemer does not answer the question he asked. A politician always has a plan. So does Mr Roemer. He wants a leftist coalition if he can. That is our plan, by the way. But a good politician always has a plan B. My question is: what is your plan B, Mr Roemer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u246	Yes. Plan B is center left. I would have preferred left with you. I was hoping the left-hand block would have gotten bigger, along with you. I hope that together we can form a block in order to achieve our ideals as much as possible. You've come to the conclusion today that you won't get out with the VVD. I could have told you that six weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u247	That's very handsome of you, but that's not my question. What's your plan? That's a different question than, what hope do you have? I had hoped, for example, that GroenLinks would have 40 seats and that the formation could be determined in total. That didn't work. That's hope, but not a plan. The plan you presented is to form a cabinet with six parties. That plan has just been skilfully fired by Mr Buma. Then my question to you is: what is your plan B?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u248	My plan B is: wait. Because Mr. Buma has now discovered that he might be able to get to the Tower, but that discovery needs to arrive. Patience is therefore a good thing. And, Mr Klaver, if a cabinet with the SP in this form turns out to be impossible, I will work with my partymates, and perhaps also with you, to build a nice left-wing movement to make the left bigger in the coming years. Every democracy needs, in addition to a very good coalition, a very strong opposition. There's nothing wrong with that. If we are not allowed to improve the Netherlands in a center-left cabinet, we do so from a position where we make the left and the Netherlands stronger with left-wing parties, with civil society organisations, with the trade union movement. Because there is work to be done for left Netherlands. But I'm not gonna be a sidecar in a right-wing polonaise. People didn't vote for the SP for that. If you will, Mr Klaver, be my guest. But I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u249	After this statement of support, here's what I'm gonna say. Mr Roemer, I do not think that the difficult part of the position you are taking is the position or the fact that you indicate how big the difference is. The hard part is that you don't even want to bother to see if you could get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u250	Mr. Klaver, stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u251	No one wants to be a sidecar of anyone. But the question is, are you willing to make an attempt anyway? Are you willing to see if it works, even with parties that are very far away from you? You say that: I know in advance that it is not going to work. I find it politically courageous if you try it and can conclude in all reasonableness that you unfortunately did not come out. But if you don't even try, Mr. Roemer... that's all I care about. In the opposition, you can also achieve fantastic things. I hope that we can build together the leftist movement that the Netherlands needs, but in the end it is also our responsibility to do something about the seats we won on election day. We need to see if we can turn it into political power in box-K. If you don't even try that, I think that's a totally missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u252	One, I'm trying. Join in, I'd say. A center-left cabinet would be possible. So that's challenge numero one. Two, stop playing games. I can still see you sitting at the Radio 1 debate with your hand-picking to Mr Asscher: please do not go on your own to help a majority on the left; reach out to me, don't join us, don't join us! Asscher was right not to fall for it. And what will you do after the election? Sitting there at the table on your own. Move left block! Move left block! It's up to you. You have a very good election result and so you have the right to do it, but I said in advance where I stood. That makes perfect sense. We'll see where you came from with the VVD. I do not want the Netherlands to wait another six weeks for a result of which everyone knows what he is going to be. I have indicated the possibilities I see for a cabinet with the SP. I'd like to start tomorrow. Isn't it possible because a party wouldn't want it? Then it does end. But I'm not gonna play a game or think I'm gonna come out easy with parties that are far away from me, a toddler can still see that it's not gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u253	The whole point is that it is not easy to get out. We all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u254	So start tomorrow!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u255	What are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u256	So let's start tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u257	Okay, finally, because we're not getting out of this. The point is that you can have your preferences for the elections and also after the elections. My first advice to the scout was the same as what Mr Roemer gave, but in the end you will need several parties. For the variant that we both have as the first option, six parties are needed. In no uncertain terms, it is indicated that this is not going to fly. Then you're gonna see what plan B could be. There's a reason why this didn't work out. Because we didn't just want to participate in this, but because we really wanted to get something done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u258	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u259	Mr. Buma has just reached out to you with a big hand. That was to indicate where the similarities are and to ask: shall we try to continue with each other, even if there is perhaps a party that does not have your first preference? The VVD doesn't have our first preference either. I'm talking about that would be almost an advice I'd like to give you to try. You owe it to your constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u260	You are actually calling on me to go into the same farce you have entered into. Are you actually saying, why don't you try and get out with the VVD? You yourself referred to climate, income policy and migration as irreconcilable problems. You know how we stand in this and that the differences between us are much smaller than the differences with the VVD, but you're actually saying: go and try it, go and throw it away for six weeks. What kind of advice is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u261	Mr Roemer, I think it is a cynical view of the world if you put away a genuine attempt of parties as a farce. That shows a cynical world view. I do know how big these differences are, but trying to bridge them is not a farce, and it is not political blinkers but political courage of all parties. Unfortunately, it didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u262	It didn't work. I would like to start tomorrow with a realistic story of a centre-left cabinet, to which the SP will contribute constructively and that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u263	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA. Then I'm gonna suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u264	Mr. Chairman. The question I had before this debate was: are we going to find out what we've been looking at over the last two months? Was it a serious negotiation attempt or was it just a play? I still don't know. This has to do with the fact that the parties have chosen to tell as little as possible. I suggest first that in a divided country, with a divided political constellation as in this Chamber, it is necessary that parties do not damage each other. It is necessary for the parties to be able to meet each other in confidence. Furthermore, if you fail to do so, you need to avoid calling each other bad fish names. I like that. But what happens here is the other extreme. It almost degenerates into complacency here: it was very pleasant under the guidance of the informant, we had a really nice time, it was a mess, but Poohpuh, we did have a nice meeting. It will be self-congratulation if I hear Mr Klaver talking about political courage in relation to Mr Roemer, whom he did take as a result of that attempt. It could be, but we can't control it. This means that there will be a rather heavy mortgage on the next stage of formation. For there is more to the question of whether the person who is allowed to join the three parties who do want to be together should thus already exceed the fundamental lower limit of Jesse Klaver. That's kind of heavy. Or was it not really tried in the end, was it not really looked at whether a solution is possible? There are more issues where there are large differences between parties and where you can even have different principles, but for which a solution has to be found within the Dutch context. By choosing not to say anything about the content and nature of the conflict and about who weighed the principles too heavily, the parties who negotiated make sure that not only two months have been spoken, but that you are indeed trying to turn the clock back to 15 March. Then I don't think it's such a strong show to take others' standards, then I don't think it's such a strong show to say: there needs to be a new cabinet as soon as possible. That requires accountability about what happened, which requires openness about why it didn't work out with GroenLinks. I ask the informant, as far as she sees fit, to provide at least some information on what has happened. How often has there been talk of migration, how often has there been talk of refugee deals, whether as a variant of the Turkey deal or not, how often has there been talk of legal sustainability? Is it true, as we read in many places, that a demand was made for GroenLinks to act in violation of human rights treaties? If so, that would be very special, because all the participating parties have taken an oath on the Constitution stating that they will uphold the international legal order. But this debate ends this way, if we are not careful, in a stalemate. The responsibility for this lies with the parties who, until now, have not been able to take away the impression that it could have been, but apparently it was not really wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u265	I think the points raised by Mr Asscher are quite right. But that brings with it the next question. Is Mr Asscher, under the circumstances he himself has outlined, namely incomplete information, the ideological lower limit of Jesse Klaver and the current context, prepared to sit at the table with the engine block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u266	Certainly not in this context, Mr Kuzu. I enjoyed the variant-Roemer. I know that you have also advised a very special variant. But we will first need to know why the most logical and obvious variant has not become, before you are at all due to other parties. I think that more parties will be affected by the fact that participation under this stellar mortgage is not very attractive for you to sit there and at least go through the fundamental lower limit of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u267	So if circumstances change, if the context changes, if we get more information from the informant about the procedure and the process, if we can get a little more insight into that ideological lower limit, could you sit around the table? Because there aren't so many options left besides a minority cabinet. We have a possibility with the Christian Union, which D66 doesn't want, and we have a possibility with the PvdA, when it comes to four parties. If circumstances change, do we see you at the negotiating table with the VVD, the CDA and D66, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u268	No, if there is more clarity in this debate, I will at least be able to discuss with my group what advice we would like to give on the follow-up. Whether it is indeed time for the Christian Union is a question that is specifically addressed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u269	I suggest we suspend until 1:30 p.m. We will then begin with the organisation of work and then proceed with the debate.
