ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV Group. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. What misery, what drama, what shame. Under this VVD Secretary of State and his VVD predecessors, the Ministry of Security and Justice has been fully exploded. On almost all core tasks, the Ministry is seriously failing. The Netherlands has not become safer under the VVD, but more unsafe. The reason we are debating today on the initiative of the PVV is that we were shocked by a media report from the beginning of May that at least 35 anklet carriers simply cut the anklet and then are out of sight of justice. The letter sent by the Secretary of State this week was even more shocking. It says that the anklet bearers are not licorice pickers but simply very heavy and scary criminals, scumbags who have violently robbed older people, drug criminals, violent violent attackers and even rapists and murderers. Thanks to the policy of this Secretary of State, they are all given a cut-off. All of them cut off the anklet. All of them can, even if they don't cut off the band, kill again, rape or commit a robbery. This happened, for example, on 1 April last, when a young woman was raped by a wearer of an ankle bracelet that had not been cut. Early this year, a killer with an anklet committed no less than three violent robberies. Even jihadists get an anklet in the Netherlands. Last year we saw in France that a terrorist wearing an ankle bracelet cut a priest's throat. It is almost inconceivable that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice dared to send this letter to the Chamber. It's unheard of. He simply says that criminals should always have and keep the ability to cut the anklet. He's just saying that the criminal who cuts his anklet can be caught right away. They're calling the criminal and maybe he'll answer. No sirens, no panic, just waiting for a new victim. It's nauseating. Aren't you ashamed, Secretary of State, that you deliberately and knowingly put innocent Dutchmen, including women and children, at risk? Why on earth would you give such serious criminals, such dangerous people, the opportunity to make the streets of the Netherlands so unsafe? The anklet was introduced in the mid-1990s to cope with the cell shortage in the Netherlands, but by now we have a cell surplus and therefore there is no reason to impose the anklet anymore. Still, it happens all the time. It's big business for the VVD. The director of the probation is Sjef van Gennip. Shef is an ardent advocate of the cutting belt. At the same time, Sjef is a judge and thus creates his own customers. To ensure that the VVD stays soft, he is also chairman of the VVD-party committee of Security and Justice. Formally he has an advisory role, but mostly, and perhaps also today, he sits here in the public gallery to see if his VVD roommates are making GroenLinks and D66 cries. Shef is a very popular man among criminals. Sjef ensures that his VVD, his fellow judges and his probation give as many criminals as possible the opportunity to get an anklet. Then the bad guys don't have to go to jail and they're happy. Then the Secretary of State doesn't have to spend so much money and he's happy. But who's not happy? Society, because it is in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	It is customary not to involve people in the debate in this way, because they do not participate in the debate and cannot defend themselves. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for making this point. I would like to ask Mr Markuszower the following. Where does he read or where does he get the information that the anklet is a replacement for a prison sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	I do not have that in my text either, but there are many ankle bracelets. Ankles are imposed when criminals are in custody. Ankles are imposed on suspects including Cetin G., that serious drug criminal who now enjoys a cup of coffee in Turkey instead of sitting in our cells. Criminals are imposed ankle bracelets if they have served two thirds of their sentence and sometimes less than that and then are given a conditional release. Those are the cases, and that has to stop. The PVV is therefore against this conditional release and certainly against dangerous criminals who make the streets of the Netherlands unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	The PVV is therefore in all cases against, in all cases, including in the situation in which someone has served his sentence, sentenced for stalking or worse for incest or you name it. He will then be imposed as a measure that he is not allowed to enter a particular area. Is Mr Markuszower against an anklet to monitor or do so after prison time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's a good question. The PVV has been saying for years that if the prison sentence is fully served, not that stupid two-thirds deduction, but has been served in full, it is prepared to follow and tease convicted criminals who have served their sentence completely for an extra period of time to ensure that they do not cause new victims. That is not what we are talking about today. We are talking today about the insane situation that criminals who are supposed to be in jail are walking on the streets and being released to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	In conclusion, whether we are talking about this is just the question, because we are talking about the issue of single band. That anklet is also imposed in situations where someone has served his sentence. I therefore find it pleasurable to have a more long-term surveillance. Fortunately, Mr Markuszower says that he is not against this either. That is the profit of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	That is not a gain from this debate; the PVV has been advocating this for years. My input is about abolishing the anklet for criminals who have to serve the prison sentence in full instead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	I will also be asking critical questions later, but I hear that the PVV wants to get rid of the ankle bracelet as a means of verifying that someone complies with the conditions of suspension of pre-trial detention. What's the alternative to the anklet? No anklet. Then there is no supervision and no control over where a criminal goes or stands. Is that wise? Will that make society safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	The alternative to the anklet is the cell. There's surveillance, and then we know exactly where the criminal is, namely in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	That is interesting, because now Mr Markuszower decides which suspect is to be accused, because that is what we are talking about at that stage. I notice the PVV has no problem sitting on the judge's seat. That may be all, but Mr Markuszower knows as well as I do that the judge is concerned about how long a defendant's remand can therefore not yet be sentenced. He says now: I don't care at all, I decide how long it takes. So that's what the PVV decides?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	The legislator can determine the length of detention, but detention is simply a legal provision. If the criminal justice chain is unable to bring people to justice quickly so that it doesn't take too long, that's another problem. Then we have to solve that, but the solution can never be to release criminals, as well as suspects of serious facts, to society. The foreclosure simply exists in the Netherlands, it is not a PVV invention. It's not a problem to leave criminals or suspects in custody in jail, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'm gonna come to this microphone with a big shit. I had hardly made a clear assessment of the desirability of the anklet until this sitting. I am now orienting myself on the basis of this debate. I would like to know whether the PVV believes that the institution of the suspension of pre-trial detention should also be rejected. Can't that happen again? Can the judge no longer suspend someone from remand when he's at home in a death situation or becomes seriously ill? I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	It is always interesting when former lawyers, perhaps still with a lawyer's practice, become MPs and then want to defend their own profession and their own customers through this microphone. In some cases, the judge could decide to give people a provisional suspension, but you must of course be careful that these are not people suspected of serious violent crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'm orienting myself. I'm not standing here as a lawyer, because that has nothing to do with this. I might want to think along with you, but then I'd like to understand you. In your view, is the possibility of suspension still present in Dutch criminal law or should it disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	For the time being, we have not made any proposals to abolish this suspension altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	Well, then I think it would be useful for you to think about it once again, if there is any suspension, at least to ensure a firm anklet in the interests of society. That could be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	Definitely not. If Mr Hiddema fears with me that those who are eligible for a provisional suspension are so dangerous that an anklet should be on them, then I am not in favour of granting these people a provisional suspension. So it's bad luck for those suspects of such serious crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, I'll take that in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	I hear a very different story from you now, Mr Markuszower. The first few minutes were about the policy, that it is a disgrace that ankle bracelets are given and that suspects are still free and not all locked up in prison. After listening to the answers to Mr Hiddema's questions, I now understand that you actually think that in this particular case and a number of other specific cases the judge has made a wrong decision. You are free to do so, and I think that more people are very sorry that this decision has been taken. But it is of a very different nature whether you say entirely politically that ankle straps should no longer be allowed and that there should be no suspensive effect or that you say that the judge should have judged differently individually. So the conclusion I draw is that you have actually changed your position in three minutes. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	It seems to me to be a conclusion that I would not draw from my speech or from my response to the interruptions. The PVV wants to get rid of the anklet. Not in cases where a convicted criminal has served his sentence entirely, so I'm not talking about the one-third deduction. So we can give a convicted pedophile, pedosexual an anklet for life after he's served his entire sentence. I hope that's 80 or 90 years. Of course, we can follow another criminal like that, because he's a threat to society. Once the punishment is over, what are you gonna do? Follow with an anklet. We're against an anklet instead of a prison cell.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	That's not gonna happen at all. There's no anklet instead of a prison cell. This is true in a number of other European countries, but it does not exist in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there is the anklet to check whether the conditions for release are respected. That's what we were just talking about. Could there be a suspensive effect? You say that this may be possible. Well, then it's handy that there's an anklet. I note that you can imagine that people will be released pending their verdict and that it makes sense that there is control and there is also an anklet. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	Not necessarily. There are two different stories here. You've got it in custody, and you'll have the situation once the criminal is convicted. For those who have been convicted, we now have a crazy institution like a third deduction. So if someone gets ten years, they could be released after seven years. That's a crazy system we're trying to get rid of. So we need to get rid of that parole. Then you don't have to push your ankle bracelets in that time frame, because that criminal just has to be in jail. That's the safest part. This also does justice to the element of repression in criminal law and to the victims, and it protects society sufficiently. So a prison sentence must be served 100%. At the time of detention, I can imagine that, for example, a 18-year-old licorice-picker may go to the hospital to visit his seriously ill mother and in that case there is a suspensive effect of the detention. And then we'll just have to take a cop with us. The anklet's no good. It looks like a cure, but it's not a cure. It's a cutting belt. It's easy to cut. The battery can go on. It's a sham. We should not pretend to protect society more by putting an ankle bracelet on someone. It's a pacifier and it's dangerous for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	Before people really start believing that it is true in reality: a licorice picker is not in our custody. It's about people who've committed more serious crimes. I'm still looking with the PVV for the intermediate solution. In fact, I could imagine that of people who have done something more than steal a drop, then come into remand and be suspended, you want to know exactly where someone is. In such a situation, could an ankle bracelet possibly be a solution? Would it not be possible for the most dangerous category, what I will say in my own contribution, but for the lightest category that you would like to keep an eye on and give a location bid or ban, to serve an anklet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	If people did something wrong, they should just go to jail. In 2012, Mrs Van Toorenburg, only 900 ankle bracelets were imposed, now 1800. It has become a means to push people as far as possible towards probation and towards resocialization and to keep them out of jail. That drug came because we had a cell shortage in the mid-1990s. We now have a cell surplus and yet we are still using it. The drug has been abused. We can find some good ideas, but unfortunately the basic idea is being abused. The medicine is being used too widely. That is why we must abolish it altogether. Once again, if we want to apply that suspensive effect to someone in custody, we must follow such a person differently. It is an illusion that the anklet gives us sufficient tracking-and-tracing controls. It's an illusion. People can cut it, we've seen it. The problem is also that the drug is being used too widely, including for large drug criminals, such as the Turkish drug criminal Cetin G., who is now in Turkey. There are just too many mistakes made with the drug.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	I agree with 90% of what Mr Markuszover says. But he's not answering my question. My question is whether in case people get suspended and you want to know where someone is, an anklet might be useful. That's just my question. Furthermore, everything is true what Mr Markuszower says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	If you want to know where someone is, you're afraid of something. Then I say, no suspensive effect for the one we're afraid of when he walks free on the street. Leave them in jail. I've got one last block. I've got 30 seconds. In the second term, I will table a motion asking the Chamber to put an end to this insanity of the anklet and the anklet. No more anklet for those in custody. No more anklet for the convicts who should just be in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you. We now go to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. "Nice to the beach with your anklet." This slogan stood on a large banner, suspended on the wall of the prison in Scheveningen. Many people felt that this was impossible at that time, but apparently it could still be a little worse: the anklet appears to be suspect, but also convicted criminals often no longer wearing. They're simply cutting him and running. And it's not the least of them. A serious drug criminal, later sentenced to 12 years in prison, was killed by an anklet. The chance that this person will actually serve his sentence is very small. Because he was suspended and with that anklet he would have waited for his trial at home. But he didn't. He cut it and took off. My question to the Secretary of State is: how can such people be eligible for an anklet? My question is more specific. Is this the hot breath of Europe now? In fact, pressure is being exerted on us from Europe to reduce the amount of time taken to take custody and also to reduce the length of time available to us. This is partly due to the fact that criminal proceedings take a very long time in the Netherlands. But isn't that the problem? Isn't it true that countries choose this kind of means, the anklet and the security deposit, which I'm about to come up with, because they think that we can't keep people in prison for that long, so we just let them go, because criminal matters take years and years? You can't hold someone that long. Are we not choosing the wrong solution to a serious problem? Apparently, we're letting very dangerous people walk out of the institution with an ankle bracelet right now. If that happens and someone gets an anklet, of course all alarm bells should ring when it goes off. The Secretary of State says this is happening, but I'm getting other signals. I'm getting signals saying he had an anklet, but it's not that bad. Moreover, let us not fool each other: the police have no time at all to let everything fall out of their hands to go after someone. You shouldn't want to release certain people with an ankle bracelet, where you have to shoot right into a panic because he's leaving. I'd like to hear that weighting from the Secretary of State. How is this weighting made? Can the police actually look for fugitives? We want serious criminals, suspects of very serious offences, not to be able to gain freedom in this way and ultimately make a long nose for justice. It's actually worse, because not only the anklet turns out to be a joke, but serious drug criminals can buy themselves out of detention. With the criminally acquired assets, they are apparently paying their bail at this time and thus walking out of the houses of custody. In the meantime, the Public Prosecutor's Office and even judges are ringing the bell about this. This calls for action. I understand that the Minister is speaking to the Secretary of State on this matter today. We read that in his letter. He says he's thinking of finding a solution to that, but I actually want to hear from the Secretary of State today what solution he's thinking of. Let us be clear what my group wants. The CDA does not want people who commit serious crimes purely from a financial point of view to be eligible for bail. Serious drug criminals and robbers, who have nothing in mind but making money, making money and making money out of crimes, eventually handing out criminally obtained money to justice and saying, "Todeledokie, we're leaving the houses of detention." That can never be the intention of the bail. We would like an answer from this Secretary of State. This is how the State becomes a money launderer. We differ from the previous speaker in two things. We are not against an anklet in principle. We are not against bail in principle. But these are light means, which you should use to monitor customers who have committed a minor offence, or are at the end of their detention, for longer. The use of these resources in this way undermines the basis for this. Eventually, that undermines our beautiful rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	I look very critically at my paper if I see it correctly, because I do not want to quote wrongly. But a motion from Mr Van Tongeren was put to the vote about two or three years ago. I am on the right track because otherwise Mrs Van Toorenburg would not have responded. That motion was about bail. In fact, the scope of that motion was quite translated: should this guarantee not be applied more frequently, especially as an alternative to pre-trial detention? The CDA was in favour of that motion at the time. Do I have to explain that the CDA will come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	No, absolutely not. We can look at the operative part, but what is much more important is the following. I have read all about the debate, including what my colleague had done at the time. It was specifically about the fact that safety cannot be at stake at all. What do we see here? The heaviest category is sent from establishments with a deposit. These are people who commit very serious crimes purely out of financial gain. When I read back the pieces of the debate we had at the time, I can see that this has certainly never been considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	I welcome this answer, because I think it is a good thing that this clear signal comes from the CDA group too, because the CDA has a large number of seats in this Chamber. Indeed, it cannot and must not be the case that criminal money is in fact freely bought along the way of bail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	Exactly. Mr Van Oosten is challenging me. I do not have any more speaking time, but I can still respond to this interruption. So I am going to disguise my speaking time. We want it to be much clearer where the money comes from if someone is paying a guarantee. That is also what the Public Prosecutor's Office indicates, and then the judiciary is also clear. We want to know whether it is paid out of criminal money, because if it is, we are ultimately a national money launderer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	I have a question for Mrs Van Toorenburg. Will Mrs Van Toorenburg perhaps come back to her statement from not so long ago that the anklet had to look a bit crazy? In other words: a nice anklet, so it would all be a bit more beautiful and cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr President, I do not want a moment, and that is why I am only showing it to you. This, Chairman, are fucking ankle bracelets! And those aren't the tapes we use in justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	It's good to hear that the CDA is getting a little tighter for the convicted criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	I can say something about it. I'm not supposed to do it anymore, but I'm only gonna do it one more time: once, in my previous life, I was the director of a prison. No one can hear that anymore, but that's the way it is. We had women sitting there who were resocialised after a long sentence, for example in the catering industry. Then you'll hear from those restaurant bosses. I get that very well that they want those ladies to look like crazy. If they're wearing a nice skirt and a nice blouse, of course they can't have to walk around with such a thing around their ankles. We can't, and we can think of something much smarter for that. That is also done, for example by doing it to the arm. I don't care. So not a cradle band, but a band that can eventually be a means of bringing people back into society. That's what we want. On the ankle or on the wrist, I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm just noticing that it's about that crazy thing. I am sorry to note that the CDA has more regard for the rights of the perpetrator than for the rights of the victims. That surprises me a little after all the things we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	I do not follow this reasoning. Then let me repeat what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	You're so worried about a bed...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	What matters to me is that eventually, when they've been out of prison, that's what I'm all about with the PVV once or a very small piece before the end of the sentence is released, forced to make something out of their lives and get a job. I want them to be able to do the job. If an anklet can't be cut by a good technique in the simple way we see now, it's worth a sweet thing to me because it makes people actually work. Otherwise, we will have another benefit, and that does not make justice cheerful at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	Not everyone could see what I saw! I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: the anklet has an extremely bad image, in a part of this Chamber but certainly also in our society. The image exists that criminals are no longer behind closed cell doors but happy at home with a beer in front of the TV, at least if the wearer hasn't already cut it. That is why we have been able to read examples of this in the newspaper today. But the truth is a little more nuanced than that! The anklet can and is of value, but not to replace a prison sentence. The VVD is not in favour of this either; please again a guarantee from the State Secretary that this is not the case. Prison sentence is jail time and not home-on-the-bank-with-a-beer punishment. However, there are a number of situations in which the anklet may be of added value. I'm just naming them. First of all, I would like to mention the example of a judge who decides not to place someone in remand pending trial. Then the anklet can be used as a means to check whether a suspect complies with the conditions imposed by the judge. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg has just mentioned it, but it goes without saying that, in the case of a suspect who is a flight risk or who is suspected of serious and very serious crimes, the VVD wants to be examined critically and carefully whether there is any possibility of suspension of that pre-trial detention. But that is separate from the issue of the anklet. Then I have the point of the two-thirds prison sentence. Mr Markuszower mentioned it. Yes, that too is an automatism and I would like to agree with the Members who share it. We have to get rid of this automation, but as long as that is not the case, the VVD certainly sees the added value of an anklet in those situations. It is a very good thing that a convicted person can remain under supervision at that stage of detention by having him wear an ankle bracelet. A third reason is the following: I would just like to mention it. As far as I am concerned, an anklet could also be much more of added value for so-called revolving door criminals, provided that this is used. A number of years ago, the Task Force made a big plea that burglars and robbers should also be imposed an ankle bracelet for a period of two years after serving their prison sentence. Long-term supervision of that group is necessary, because a large percentage of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what actually happened to that plan and to what extent further progress can be made on it. However, in all cases, the use of the anklet depends on the condition that it should not be easy to remove. I understand that the Secretary of State's footsteps are on the way. That is a good thing. If it does manage to remove that thing, can I also assume that it will be dealt with immediately? Indeed, we are not waiting for a criminal who cuts his anklet and flees. The tyres send a signal to a remote control alarm system. Can I also assume that if that happens, it will also be dealt with directly? Finally, disabling an ankle bracelet, to put it mildly, should be a separate crime as far as the VVD is concerned. A person who, under conditions of liberty, waits for or is released from the process, withdraws from supervision. This means that he deliberately ensures that it cannot be seen whether he complies with the conditions. In fact, he probably cut that anklet because he intended not to comply with the terms. The VVD believes that this is a serious offence, and that offence must also have consequences. I would therefore like to see the withdrawal from the supervision imposed to be regarded as a separate criminal offence and also criminally prosecuted as such. I would like to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	May I draw Mr van Oosten's attention to Article 350 of the Criminal Code? There's two years on destroying property that doesn't belong to you. It seems to me that that provides a perfect solution to his problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	With all due respect, destruction, that is the article that Mr Groothuizen points out; not everyone knows the Code of Criminal Law as well as Mr Groothuizen can be destroying state property. That can be the cutting of an anklet, but it can also be the kicking of a trash can. Of course that has to be dealt with. Of course, the causer has to pay for that damage. Of course he needs to be prosecuted. But this is something more fundamental. This is a person who withdraws from state supervision, a person whose state, the Public Prosecutor's Office, says, "I do not trust you; I do not trust you because you have suffered casualties." We're not gonna compare something like that to destruction, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr Van Oosten has made a proposal to amend something. I'm just pointing out to him that I think it's already criminal. There is, of course, also the fact that the violation of these conditions, whether in the context of a suspension of provisional detention or in the context of a conditional release, has consequences in any case. When I look at the limited number of cases and the VVD-love to keep things simple and clear, I wonder why Mr Van Oosten is not simply using the existing legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	When it comes to non-compliance with the special conditions, the result is, I may at least accept, but for the sake of certainty, let us also put that question to the Secretary of State for the rest of the sentence. But I don't call that punishment. That's a punishment, but it was already imposed. No, I want an extra sentence. I want it to be possible to prosecute separately from supervision, from electronic surveillance. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	I think we're already in agreement. Indeed, if you do not comply with the conditions, you must return to your left or right. I think that's the extra penalty for destroying that tape. A little D.A.'s gonna subpoena that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	Punishable couples always sound big and good. It's certainly to be supported. But I don't quite understand what the real point is anyway. Looks like a little waxy nose. There are two possible situations. Either the criminal gets caught cutting him, or he's lost. If he's missing, an extra sentence doesn't make much sense, of course, because he's missing. You can make it a criminal, but probably that criminal is already in Turkey or Morocco on a terrace, like Cetin. Otherwise, if the criminal gets caught, what's the penalty? What kind of punishment are you thinking of? Is the punishment another anklet? That is the current situation. Or do you agree with me that the possibility of early release will, by definition, cease to exist? We want to abolish early release anyway, but do you also think that it will stop at least in those cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes, but that is just what I said to Mr Groothuizen. If you violate such a special condition, if you disable your anklet, you can of course serve the rest of your sentence. But I'm concerned with the mere fact that you're avoiding the supervision that the State has imposed on you. This is not simply imposed, but also serves, for example, to protect victims. If you're gonna avoid that, you're gonna have to be prosecuted separately. That deserves a separate place in our Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	Does Mr Van Oosten really think that this will stop the criminal from cutting his anklet, fleeing and committing another crime? Often these people have been convicted of very serious crimes. They were also punishable, but that didn't stop them from committing those crimes. It seems to be quite a measure, but it does not protect society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	That's just the question. In fact, I could reverse this reasoning. Mr Markuszower should be embracing this proposal precisely, because it means that because he cut the anklet, someone should not only serve the sentence imposed, which should already be the result. In addition, he has to spend extra time in prison because he has withdrawn from state supervision. I think that's quite a bad issue. Society deserves protection from this. I don't think it's wrong that someone like that should be held in prison a little longer to think about what he's done isn't normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	Finally, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	I'll await the motion. I hope it's a big one. Then we'll see if we can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	I admit that it all sounds very heavy, but I want to take a very critical look at it. We are talking about people who are gonna walk away and then go to jail for 12 or 14 years. Does Mr van Oosten really think that this will stop these people? And more fundamentally, isn't it a very easy solution to declare merely the cutting of an anklet as a criminal offense? Then I would like to talk to Mr Van Oosten about whether withdrawal from deprivation of liberty is not the criminal offence. Shouldn't we do something about everyone who leaves prison and violates his suspension conditions? Then I don't just want the easy solution that we get someone with an anklet by the anklet because that's what it's all about, because that's not how we deal with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	I am looking for Mrs Van Toorenburg's exact point, but I understand her as follows. I have not yet tabled a motion to withdraw from electronic surveillance, but I certainly intend to do so. Mrs Van Toorenburg likes to draw that theme wider than just the anklet. I'd like to agree with her, because I don't think escaping from prison is normal either, but we're talking about ankle bracelets here today. That's today's theme. I am deeply disturbed by the fact that there are people who are being imposed a measure, perhaps in order to protect others, but who then render that thing unready and withdraw from supervision. I believe that this should be punishable separately and that these people should be put in prison for longer, regardless of the punishment that led to the fact that they were wearing an anklet at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	That is why I am saying that this is such an easy solution in this debate, because think of someone who is being subjected to aggression training as a condition because he has completely lost someone. If someone doesn't follow that aggression training, I'd think of criminalisation before, because those people seriously put society at risk. I think it is a serious proposal if Mr van Oosten wants to criminalise the violation of all conditions and the withdrawal of a provisional detention or imprisonment. We could ask the Secretary of State to find out. This is a very fundamental issue, which we have often discussed. It does not seem to be possible in connection with all kinds of treaties. That's what I'd like to hear, but that's what we can talk about. But let us not suddenly take out the broken anklet very easily and say that it is so terrible that it must be criminalised separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	Well, a little easy? We are talking about 35 situations, which were enough for you to debate here today. If it were a little easy, you would also have said: gosh, I don't need to have that whole debate. I wouldn't look at it that way. 35 people have been convicted or suspected. 35 people have been given a measure, containing an anklet, and that has had a good purpose. That should and should be monitored. Those people are getting away from it. Then I find it neither weird nor too limited to say that it should be criminalised separately. If you then link to some other themes, if you want to link them to them, you are free to do so. Then I think it is very sensible to have that debate with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	We do not win the war by criminalising the cutting of an anklet. What we can win the war with is to prevent people who are very dangerous from walking out of an institution with an anklet. That is why I want to have this debate. If the by-catch is that we are seriously going to look at whether it will remove you from any form of deprivation of liberty or liberty, then people are doing things that cannot be criminalized, I am fine with that. However, we do not stop these people from going abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	I would like to continue with what Mrs Van Toorenburg came up with, namely the search for the difference in principle. Mr Van Oosten says that he wants to make it a criminal offence for people to withdraw from supervision. We were talking about the anklet. I understand that point. However, there are many forms of supervision. Making appointments with parole officers is also a form of supervision. I just want to understand where the fundamental difference is between the anklet and the appointments with parole officers or all kinds of other routes. Does Mr Van Oosten really want to make it illegal for you to escape all these things?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	In the context of this debate, I did not mean to be faint, but this debate is about ankle straps, limited to a call for a separate criminalisation of the withdrawal from supervision by disabling those ankle straps, because there were quite a few cases. However, I fully understand Mrs Buitenweg's question. There may also be other forms of supervision that you could avoid. I do not think it is a strange idea at all to think and perhaps even to come up with proposals, possibly even in consultation with each other, about how to deal with the people who are too miserable to take advantage of opportunities they are offered in our society, yet they are suspected of the most serious facts or have gone beyond them, and then they are in the wind again. I don't think it's weird to think any further about that. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	Then I understand that you may find it possible not to make appointments with parole officers punishable. That's a bit of a crazy thing to do, isn't it? So you've been given conditions for your release. Those conditions include a visit to a probation officer or indeed an aggression training. You're gonna do that with your feet. Then it makes sense for your release to be revoked and for you to go back to prison. It was the condition for your release, you violated it, and so you have to go back. You say that it happens to be about ankle straps, but I certainly like it in the area of justice if we are a little consistent. You find it quite possible that it is also about aggression training. I don't understand why you're creating a criminal offense on top of the fact that your release is being revoked. Can you explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	The answer makes perfect sense. I have also given it to you a number of times more or less. I gave it to you. In the case of a conviction, a sentence has been imposed, which ends in a conditional release after two thirds, because a particular offence has been committed. When you don't follow normal conditions, as you outline, you have to go back to jail. That's perfectly normal. This is what I'm talking about. You are put under the supervision of the State of the Netherlands, which is a difference from perhaps a course or otherwise, and you are not allowed to enter a particular area because you have suffered casualties there, for example. If you deliberately disable that thing and therefore cannot be monitored, then it is too ridiculous for words to say that it cannot be prosecuted separately. I think it's perfectly normal that you can, so that someone like that can be locked up longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	In the context that it is not a paper tiger: what kind of punishment did you have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	Quite specifically, I would like to establish a connection with the custody. This concerns in general terms prison sentences from four years. That should therefore be the penalty, as far as I am concerned. But again, I come up with the proposal... yes, you look at me, but it's something. I'd like to call it one more time. It is therefore the withdrawal from the State's control. The State is imposing a measure on someone. He doesn't just do that. That is what he is doing, for example, in the direction of Mr Markuszower, not because I suspect him of it, but because he set that example for someone sentenced to 12 years in prison for serious drug offences. It could be people who committed murder. It could be people who committed sex crimes. I think it's perfectly normal for the state to want to supervise someone like that. I also want to monitor revolving door criminals, whose statistics say that 80% is going to go wrong again. Then it is not strange to say: if you withdraw from something so fundamental, in order to keep our society a little liveable, can you also justify yourself to the court for a separate criminal offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr Markuszower, you've just been interrupting. You may ask one supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	I have a whole new point. It is good in itself that Mr Van Oosten is trying to take measures to prevent ankle straps from being cut. But the real question, of course, is: does he support our group to abolish conditional release altogether or, if he does not want to, at least for those groups suspected of serious violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	I am sure that in the case of suspects of serious violence or who are at risk of fleeing, for example, because they have a dual nationality and can therefore easily escape from another country, criteria must be tested very severely before you let them go free. But do you know where we're breaking up? In the end, I leave the decision to the judge, who is independent in this country and I trust him to do so. I'm not afraid to criticize if I don't like a statement, but I'm not afraid to trust him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	So you do not want to abolish the parole here altogether. The legislator can just do that. So you do not want to abolish early release for perpetrators of violent crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	With respect, Mr Markuszower is confusing a number of things. I assumed that was the component in his first question that it looks at suspending custody.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	It is also a question of conditional release, of early release.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	There is a fundamental difference. In custody, these are people who are suspected of serious crimes. I go a long way with you when you say you shouldn't be too afraid to keep people suspected of serious facts in captivity. But it's ultimately up to the judge to determine that. When it comes to the convict, and so it is established that you were wrong, I agree with you that the automatic release of two thirds of prison should end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. If people from the judge have to wear an anklet, they have to keep it on, of course. Most of the time, it's good. Unfortunately, this has gone wrong in a number of cases. Each case, of course, is too much. But for the record, in 98% of cases there are no problems. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there is no reason to abolish the anklet, as some parties, in particular the PVV, are advocating here today. The anklet is also a good tool, for example to check whether someone is following a restraining order in a stalking shop or to let a young person go to school, but also to check whether he is going home after school and not hanging out with the wrong friends. This is good for the victims and for society. We shouldn't throw the kid away with the bathwater. After all, we are not going to abolish prisons because someone has sometimes escaped. I'm glad the Cabinet can see that, too. The anklet is useful, but two things have to be done. D66 has said before that we need to look at a stronger anklet, so that it can be removed less easily. I understand from the government's letter that this is being worked on. When does the Secretary of State expect to put the new anklet into service? And I don't mean personally, of course. If someone cut his anklet, he's gonna have to be arrested soon. Otherwise the bird has flown. Does the Secretary of State consider that action is being taken soon enough or does he see room for improvement? I would like to come to another issue which is, however, connected with this: the bail-out. The guarantee is a condition attached to the suspension of a pre-trial detention. Figures show that the deposit has been used more frequently in recent years. Criminal cases are taking longer and longer, which also means that the detention will take longer. Since, of course, people are innocent until proven guilty, that's gonna wring at some point. The judge may then decide to withdraw or suspend the provisional detention. Borg can be a condition. Does the Secretary of State see in the increasing number of guarantees the signal that the lead times should be shorter? The purpose of the bail is that someone doesn't run away, because if he does, he loses the bail. It is good in itself to have that kind of extra guarantees, but two questions do play a role in this. First of all, where does the bail money come from? Secondly, is the deposit high enough to have a reasonable guarantee that someone does not run away? After all, we do not want the deposit to be paid with false money or too low so that someone does run away despite the fact that he has tapped the deposit. Investigate this through the Public Prosecutor's Office and the court is time-consuming and labour-intensive, the cabinet writes. However, as far as I am concerned, there is a need for tightening up. D66 wants better guarantees. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet is working on this together with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. However, I find the cabinet somewhat slow. Why wait for the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure? I'd like a solution to this sooner. What is the deadline for the Secretary of State to sit down with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the case-law? And when can we expect a proposal from him for better safeguards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the escape in November last year from one of Europe's largest coke barons. After a year in detention, he was allowed to wait for the remainder of the trial and the sentence at home on the basis of a decision of an independent judge. The anklet he was supposed to keep in there, he cut it. This is very serious and undermines people's confidence in the government making every effort to ensure that criminals do not get away with their punishment. I thought I hadn't said anything controversial yet. That's still coming, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	You've been at it for 30 seconds, but Mr Markuszower knows what he wants to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	If it is found to be so serious, does the Netherlands no longer need some firmer judges instead of firmer ankle straps? Mrs Buitenweg herself said that the judge released that person. Maybe we need some tighter judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	I will come back to the judges in a moment, but I think Mr Markuszower has a very good point. I do want to strengthen the judiciary. I am sometimes concerned about whether the judiciary has enough money and resources to weigh these matters very well. It is a good point from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	I thank Mrs Buitenweg for the compliment, but I was not talking about strengthening it, because that is actually another point. I am talking about stronger and more stringent judges who punish higher and less likely to throw criminals back on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think it's mostly about making a proper assessment. I'll be right back on the benefits of the anklet. You're gonna have to make a good balance, and I heard a lot of people say that even if it's between the people in whom it's wise to have them resocialized with an ankleband, or let them wait for their punishment at home, and the people with whom you think this is not so wise. That's up to an individual judge. I will not go into that, but I think it is important that the balance is made right. It is important that a thorough analysis is made of what has gone wrong in this individual case and in a number of other cases. I can imagine that even within the judiciary, with this, I have already come to a part of the answer "where the decisions are taken about who gets an anklet, the discussions are now starting to flare up. But let us not conclude that this has disqualified electronic surveillance. Only in a small 2% of cases do people withdraw from this supervision. As Mr Groothuizen said, 98% of the cases are good. Mr Markuszower was already concerned that the Secretary of State for the Green Left was going to scream, and I can say that it is. GroenLinks was very pleased with the letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff of 30 May. He made it clear that electronic supervision could be of great value to the citizens and to society. Electronic surveillance is not applied in the Netherlands as a substitute for detention. However, in some other European countries, such as those in which there is a lack of cells, there is a lack of Kale application, as it is called. But in the Netherlands ankle straps are only used as an electronic tool. It helps the probation to improve supervision of people who are getting used to returning to society. In the Netherlands a justitive really doesn't come to places where it's not allowed and he's not outside at times when he's supposed to be inside. The control through ankle straps can even stimulate a different day and night rhythm of these people and bring more structure into their lives. This in turn increases the chance that they will be facing a crime-free future, which we should welcome. Electronic surveillance is also used as an alternative to pre-trial detention. That's good, too. Maybe we should do that more often. Almost 40% of the prisoners in the Netherlands are in custody. So these people haven't been convicted of a crime at all. According to the Human Rights College, judges do not adequately justify their decisions on pre-trial detention and it is not clear whether they have considered alternatives, such as ankle ties. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he recognizes these conclusions of the College of Human Rights and how he looks at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	It is said that the risk of recurrence will be reduced and that society will be more likely to become safer. Why are you so willing to play a game of chance with society? If a convicted criminal is in jail, there's a zero chance of recidivism. As long as the criminal is in jail, he can't commit a criminal offence. So you're taking a risk to society, and you're making the chance of re-socializing the unsub more difficult. Why don't you let the risks to society weigh more heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	My point is that the PVV makes society more unsafe, precisely by keeping people in prison for a very long, endless time. You can't lock people up for life with all of them, so at some point they have to be released. If you release them from one day on another, it could have very bad consequences. So much more sensible is a process of resocialization, and an ankleband can play a role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	You can also resocialize in the cell...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	...for the time being that you're serving the entire sentence? What is happening now is that the punishment is reduced, and in the reduction, a lot of crimes happen, or people flee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	Your point of view is that you have to keep people in jail forever. However, there is a time when people are released, and you have to prepare them for that as best you can. We can talk about how long people must have been in prison before they can get out. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that people should not be released so quickly, so after serving two thirds of their sentence. Maybe it's better if it doesn't happen until later in the process. We can talk about that sometime. The point is that people get out of jail at some point. Those ankle straps can be a tool in controlling how people do it back in society. In this sense, it contributes to the security of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	It is right that Mrs Buitenweg indicates that people are being released at some point. But what does Mrs Buitenweg think of the idea which was laid down by the Task Force a few years ago, that a revolving door criminal who served his sentence, even after that was called a period of two years should be put under supervision with such an ankle bracelet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	In my view, this should be based on a judicial ruling. It should then be part of the punishment imposed by the judge. It seems to me to be a little complicated if you tie some people without a court ruling to an anklet like that. I can imagine, however, that a judge will say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	So GroenLinks is not the main opponent of keeping revolving door criminals under surveillance after their punishment with the help of such an anklet, to prevent them from going wrong again, or to intervene at the time they go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	You say, "After their punishment." I say a judge must have imposed it. That makes it part of the punishment. In the event that the reason for this debate arose, the judge therefore took a decision which seems to be regrettable afterwards. Wrong estimates can never be ruled out, but my question is whether judges have sufficient capacity and time to properly weigh risks in individual cases. The same applies to probation, which plays a major role in decisions on electronic supervision at the end of a detention path. Has the probation ever indicated that it does not actually have sufficient time and resources for the decision and supervision of electronic surveillance? I was just about to start my last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	I also suggest you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	The Ministry is working on the project Course and opportunities for sanction execution. It looks at how to prevent people from getting into more and more trouble. Most prisoners have very complex, often psychological or psychiatric problems. 75% are less than three months in detention. 50% even less than three weeks. When they get out, they'll have higher debts, their care plans crossed, and they won't be welcome at their old workplace anymore. The risk of problems is therefore increased, and this raises the question of whether there is no longer a need for electronic surveillance or perhaps other alternatives. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr Markuszower has no further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	This was so unadulterated GroenLinks, there's no spice to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr Van Nispen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr. Chairman. If a criminal escapes or does not comply with the conditions, it is terrible for everyone, for the police, justice and probation, but especially for society and especially for the victims. The fact that the police have declared that escapes are detrimental to the Dutch's sense of justice is therefore justified, because it is. The real reason for this debate is the case of the great drug lord, Cetin G. For years the police investigation did, but when his remand could no longer be renewed, he cut his ankle bracelet and disappeared. He was wearing an electronic anklet and he paid a solid bail, but that didn't help. This criminal, of the 14 years in prison, only one year in prison, is not the only one. That's very frustrating, because that undermines trust in the anklet, in the system that is good in itself. Provisional detention cannot last indefinitely, because while no conviction has yet been given, people can lose their jobs, their homes and sometimes their families. Debts build up. These are all important ingredients for committing a new crime and therefore for repeated crime. It's the judge who decides if someone should be in jail longer. If someone can no longer be held, the SP prefers that person to wear an anklet so that we can exercise control and supervision than that person does not wear an anklet. That would be the consequence of abolishing the anklet, as the PVV wants. The anklet has advantages, because you can check if someone complies with the conditions, for example a location ban or a bid. That's why it's such a good tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	And in those cases where the criminal could still be in jail, do you think it's such a great tool, that anklet? How can you explain that to that young woman who was raped by an anklet carrier last April?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	The SP doesn't think the anklet is a great tool at all in all cases. I explain why an anklet can sometimes be an incredibly useful tool to check that someone is complying with the conditions imposed on the interruption of prison time. It's a good tool for that. I am therefore not standing here defending the specific cases where an anklet has been imposed or not. That's up to the judge, advised by the parole board or the Justice Department. If Mr Markuszower is going to bring in individual cases, it will be a bit painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	It is ultimately up to the legislator how we intend to apply this anklet in the Netherlands. So I ask Mr Van Nispen of the SP if he wants to apply the anklet in cases where the criminal could still be in jail. Then I'm not just talking about individual cases. I give examples, including in my speech, of crimes committed by criminals who could have been in prison but who had an anklet on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	The anklet isn't every criminal for a long time. Also, not every criminal gets an anklet. For example, if someone is a flight risk, that person should not get an ankle bracelet; you can ask the Secretary of State whether or not that is the case. If the PVV says it wants to get rid of the system that someone gets an ankle bracelet as part of the suspension of a pre-trial detention, I think that is a very careless proposal. In fact, we have just framed that proposal in the interruption of your contribution. If you want to get rid of the system of suspending custody, you will therefore sit on the judge's seat and say that everyone will remain in remand, even if they have not yet been convicted. That means infinite punishment for people who have not been convicted. I can't, as you know. And when someone gets out without an ankle bracelet, you really get an unsafe society, because then you don't have the electronic tool that allows you to see where someone is at what time. I would add that the system is not infallible. We know that 98% are doing well, but 35 people have escaped in recent years. That is terrible, but your proposal does indeed make society really unsafe. Today, however, the SP raises the issue that some criminal proceedings take so long that a suspect of a serious criminal offence can no longer be held in custody. So can we not look more closely at speeding up criminal proceedings and the causes of that long-term? Sometimes it can be explained for a long time, but sometimes it can't be explained. These may be problems with the capacity of the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office or delays in the courts. Why don't we talk about that specifically? Can I get a response from the Secretary of State? Then you have less long term detention and less ankle bracelets and bailouts for the heavy boys, who we sometimes talk about here. For the sake of trust in this system, it is very important that everything is always put on everything when someone sabotages the anklet. Does that happen to a sufficient extent? Is everything taken out of the closet immediately and diligently to find the criminal immediately after a report of cutting such a band? Are there any opportunities to improve on this? How much time does that usually cover? Is there enough capacity for this at parole and the police? There are still seven fugitives. How actively are they still being sought and what about international cooperation? I'm going on bail now. Often the custody is suspended on condition that someone gets an ankle bracelet and pays a large sum of money. Of the people with an anklet 2% withdraws. For people who made bail, that's 7%. In fact, that is a bigger problem. That bail should be a guarantee that someone doesn't flee, but doesn't work well enough in practice, it seems. De Telegraaf published last week that the origin of this money is not being investigated. A rich criminal, think of our drug lord from the infamous example, pays 0.5 million of his criminal money, which is probably a fraction of the wealth earned by that crime. So if he's gonna run, his sentence's gonna be paid off with his criminal money. Of course, that's really insufferable. I therefore believe that there are two problems, and I also ask for a solution. Firstly, the origin of that money should be investigated, because otherwise you can pay off a sentence with your crime money. Secondly, it is necessary to look more closely at whether the level of the amount is enough to deter the criminal in question, otherwise there will be no point. I'd like to get a comprehensive response to this. The Minister already wrote about this in his letter, but, following D66, I do not see why we should wait for the overall radical modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to get the promise that this can be done sooner, namely as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	I don't see Mrs. Chicken. I call Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	Madam President. Today we have a debate on the anklet. It is always important to make clear exactly what we are talking about. People who just fall into this debate might think: is this about the joint bond of the ankle? It's important that it doesn't rip, because otherwise you can't walk. No, this is about another anklet, and it is important that it stays in place and is not cut: as an electronic control. In her contribution, Mrs Van Toorenburg came back to the third meaning of anklet, that of jewelry. Then the adjective "kek" is on the agenda. With the other meanings, it seems less appropriate. Today we are talking about the anklet as a form of electronic surveillance. What goes wrong when the anklet is cut, is at odds with the goal we are aiming for, namely to keep an eye on someone. Well, that's all worked out very well. That anklet should be good, of sturdy quality and not cut. That's the problem. That is being worked on, and that is a good thing. It is fantastic that in 98% of the cases things are going well and the band is not cut through, but those 2%.... 35 cases in which it happens unfortunately is of course very annoying. It is important that this is dealt with thoroughly. The SGP Group also considers that the application of the anklet should not be an emergency grip due to cell deficiency or as a austerity measure. We have had these discussions on a regular basis. I do not think I have heard anyone argue that today and I am happy to see that consensus. What remains is that it is a useful control tool when checking conditions such as the location ban, the ban on entering a particular place. The SGP Group believes that a useful application should be maintained. It is a good opportunity to give serious thought to the return to society. Then he must be completely reliable. It is unacceptable that in so many cases it is possible to get rid of the anklet in a simple way. In our view, it is also undesirable for a person with a planned sentence of 14 years instead of being arrested to have an ankle bracelet. For that, again, it should not be an alternative. It just has to be an addition to being free.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	Let's think together. When will a location ban be imposed? That happens to those criminals or suspects who are afraid of doing something naughty, wrong or dangerous at a certain location. It's better to have someone in jail, isn't it? After all, we all know that having an anklet does not cause such a person not to come to that location. All that's happening is that there's an alarm going off in a parole department and maybe a phone call is being made there. But there is no immediate intervention, I see the Secretary of State no shaking and a crime is committed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	I believe that this has already emerged in a number of inter-ruption debates. I find it surprising that we are in fact very much in agreement on these points. An anklet should not replace a prison sentence. It's less far-reaching than a prison sentence. As far as we are concerned, there is no automatic release from prison. It needs to be served. But if there's a moment when someone gets out, then an ankle bracelet is a lot better than just being free without such a control tool. That is what I thought the PVV Group would argue for. Then we must not confuse it by saying that it must be completely abolished. I really don't understand what that's supposed to mean. That is merely creating confusion and not providing clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	So you are only in favour of the anklet in those cases that the prison sentence is completely completed; not in custody, but not after a third deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	Not in place of a prison sentence, but in addition to being free. If a prison sentence is in question, prison time must be imposed and it must also be served in full. But there comes a time when someone is free or, in the context of pre-trial detention, would normally be free and not be eligible for remand. Then I always find it a useful addition to being free to have another tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	Will you then support us if we make a proposal to abolish conditional release?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	In fact, before Mr Markuszower came into the Chamber, I had a legislative proposal in preparation, which now follows an advisory round, in order to adapt the conditional release. I think that the time of motions and such is a little over. We've talked about this before in the past few years. We must now come up with concrete legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	I hear Mr Van der Staaij say: we are not in favour of conditional release and we see a role for the anklet if someone has served his sentence. Now we know Mr Van der Staaij as someone who always has an eye for the constitutional nature. What exactly does he think is the legal framework in which someone should still wear an ankle bracelet after the entire sentence has passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	This can be done within the framework of the imposition of conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	But we impose these conditions precisely in the context of conditional release, and you want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u116	But it can also be done in the context of a suspended sentence. In my legislative proposal, which is now the subject of a consultative round and on which the Chamber will be able to make an extensive judgment, I would like to impose a conditional sentence instead of conditional release, whereby conditions such as an anklet, the taking of courses and the like can be heard. Mr Grothuizen knows what is possible in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u117	Conditional punishments are of course already imposed, but Mr Van der Staaij is therefore also in favour of people not sitting behind the big door, but that this can also be done outside an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u118	I'm in favour of an unconditional sentence being clear and just served completely. Furthermore, I believe that there is a need to have a certain intermediate form, such as supervision, and that the imposition of a conditional penalty is a better legal framework for this. That is what is laid down in the bill that I am now preparing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u119	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u120	The government speaks in a 2015 letter about research into the reliability of the anklet and says that it has shown that it is fine. I haven't been able to find that investigation myself. What exactly does that show about ifs and buts? It is precisely when the medicine is used more, that high reliability is needed. Sabotage of the anklet is always reported automatically, but whether or not something happens with such a report is always dependent on the risk profile and criminal modality, I read in the letter. Isn't that a little too noncommittal? Shouldn't action be taken, by definition, when sabotage of the anklet takes place? That is what my group would like to advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. I've put my ear well to listen and learned a lot. I await Mr Van Oosten's motion. I'm curious about that. But I am certainly waiting for Mr Van der Staaij's bill. That seems to me at first sight, when I hear it like that, to be a revolutionary turn in the criminal penal application system. I'm very curious about that. I was invited to appear here because it was about the anklet, so I understood. It's fanning all over the place. I hear sounds that the anklet has to go. The Forum for Democracy would not consider that to be a clever thing. We have the technical ingenuity and the instrument to keep people you want to keep in mind. You'd be way out of reality to wipe away an obvious tool that allows you to follow the trail of people under any circumstances. You don't have to. Of course you shouldn't. You have to keep it, especially when it comes to minor misdemeanors. The distinction is hard to make. You cannot say, on the basis of the facts, only the description of the crime and the qualifications: that is worthy of an anklet and not another fact. Some serious crimes, such as they are always called "the criminal offence" are committed by people who were not planning to do so at all and who are not considered as dangerous by the authorities, the judges and the parole board. However, they have committed a crime that looks heavy because of the qualification. If those people have been in detention for a while, the judge may want to be certain and still want to keep them in the dark. After all, it's a crime that doesn't lie about it. So I would not argue in favour of linking the anklet to a particular crime and maximum punishment. You can never compare things, people and circumstances. There's no getting started. So you have to keep it. It's a control option. Then the question has also been asked whether cutting an ankle bracelet is a separate criminal offence. If that anklet had not been cut, this whole debate would not have taken place. Now, if we can get an anklet that won't be cut, we're done with the susa. The Secretary of State sits there all the time and he might be carrying a big secret with him. He'll be explaining in a minute. Perhaps he has developed enough technical ingenuity to say: stop it, because this anklet will never come off again. Perhaps as suggested, with a hand grenade attached to it. You never know; when the pin flies out, you're done with everything. We can expect a great find from the Secretary of State, because I cannot imagine that it is impossible to construct an ankle bracelet in such a way that the person wearing it can only get rid of it if he cuts his leg. Then the flight risk is gone, too. I would like to take part in the discussion on the technical possibilities of such an anklet. In any case, the question has also been raised as to whether we should abolish custody. You should never do that, you should never do that, because people will be cold on the street and if it is Mr Markuszower's fault, even without an ankle bracelet. Then you really create time bombs and the Forum for Democracy is not in favour of that. So you also have to keep that category in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr Hiddema of Forum for Democracy says that it is not smart to abolish the anklet. On his website he writes that he wants to create heavier penalties for violence and sexual offences in the Netherlands. How will he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u124	What does that have to do with the anklet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u125	That's what I'm asking you. What are you going to do about the perpetrators of violent crimes or sexual offences that are now on the streets after two thirds or sometimes less of their sentence? Mr Hiddema does not think it is wise to abolish the anklet. He wants to throw those people out on the streets while he writes on his website that he wants to punish harder. How does he explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u126	The question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u127	Well, I don't get it. I still have to get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u128	Again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u129	I'll be a little shorter. What does the Forum for Democracy do for the perpetrators of violent and sexual crimes who are now released after two thirds of serving their sentences, also because Mr Hiddema is now pleading for the anklet? What is Mr Hiddema doing to ensure that the perpetrators of violent crimes and sexual offences remain in prison longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u130	Then only increasing the maximum penalty can be useful. Then the judge will have the opportunity to punish him more severely than he does now. That anklet has nothing to do with it. Nor do I discuss with Mr Markuszower whether there is a need for increased sanctions. I'm talking about the value and usefulness of an anklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u131	What does Mr Hiddema think of the value and usefulness of an anklet for perpetrators of sexual crimes and serious violent crimes if they are released early? What's so smart about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u132	That if they're free, at least you can keep an eye on them. In Mr Markuszower's option, no man looks at them when they are free.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u133	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u134	In my option, and Mr Hiddema should support me in that, given the statement on his website, they are in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u135	Life?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u136	For the time they've been convicted. They should not be on the streets even after serving two thirds of their sentence, as Mr Hiddema seems to suggest here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u137	In my view, they're in jail as long as the judge thinks so. That changes per individual case; we are not talking about a bag of peas, it is about people. I would also like to create the possibility, even if there are sex crimes, that if these people are released, and that is what they are, because Mr Markuszower has not yet advocated life imprisonment... By the way, you're off that anklet. Isn't that an alternative to the PVV? Victims and serious crimes? Life, because then you'll be in prison for life, you'll never get out, and you won't have an anklet. Out of discussion? But it's not that simple, Madam President. Those people are gonna be on the street. My website has nothing to do with that. There's a judge's verdict and the judge may listen to me one day, but not yet in these cases. Those people get out and the judge can give them an anklet. Be happy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u138	But unlike in court, the legislator can just change the law. So if you want criminals convicted of a sex crime or a serious violent crime to be punished more severely, you have to tell me that those sentences should be extended, that those people should not come out on the street with an ankle bracelet after serving two thirds or less of their sentence, but that they should stay in jail. You can argue for that. Then don't tell me I'm not smart. Then you have to say, "We're gonna take these criminals harder."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u139	You don't listen smart. I told him I wouldn't think cleaning the anklet was smart. I can't help it. I can't help it. I can't help it. The anklet has to stay. I am very strengthened in the idea that it is a very good party position and I will add it to my website.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u140	I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes and then the Secretary of State will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u141	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr. Chairman. In the first term of the Chamber, I noticed that the anklet is a subject that raises many emotions and intense discussions. I hope that today we can talk about it in a sensible way and also see where the instrument really adds something to society. We should not judge the whole instrument on the basis of the things that go wrong, which of course we do not deny. It has already been recalled: in more than 98% of cases things are just going well. The wearer of an anklet wears it, charges it, tries to do nothing wrong with it and thus keeps to the supervision. Then it is a very valuable tool for us. You can guide people when they've partially served their sentence and are still under surveillance. Even after the term of the sentence, regardless of what you would do with a conditional release, you can accompany them to become a part of society better and in a safe way. In addition, it is not an alternative to punishment. It's not like people with ankle bracelets would've been in jail otherwise. People with an anklet would have been home without an anklet. An anklet seems a lot more effective and a better method of monitoring than having a cop drive by a few times a day to see if the light is still on. Having said that, I would like to make it clear that the anklet is an essential and valuable addition and that it is an instrument that we do not want to get rid of. We have to fight the mistakes that go with it. We must also prevent people knowingly trying to escape by cutting and fleeing the anklet. We have seen a number of examples of this. We must combat this rather than throw away the whole instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u143	I have a question about parole. How on earth does the Secretary of State explain that he is willing to release dangerous criminals such as murderers and rapists on parole with an anklet? Why doesn't he just say that we're abolishing conditional release at least for that category?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u144	The conditional release is not an automatism or a right. It will be examined on a case-by-case basis. If it's on the agenda, you can choose: either someone gets paroled without an anklet or he gets paroled with an anklet. The anklet adds a check. The person will not only be punished, but you can also contribute to the fact that he will not recur afterwards. I think the victims will also be better off if the person is accompanied for a while and is watched with the anklet. After the term that the sentence would have expired anyway, the person does not just get out, but does not show that behavior anymore and leaves people alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u145	The PVV wants to get rid of the conditional release at all. Because we have the anklet, an early release is still possible for the category of perpetrators of violent crimes or sexual offences. That's actually what I hear the Secretary of State say. He's got to agree with me that it's a pacifier, right? The anklet can be cut. And even if the anklet isn't cut, can people who are on the street commit a crime? This has already been done; not in 100% of cases, but in 2% of cases. Why does the Secretary of State think that 2% is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mr Markuszower asks a question about a statement I do not share, so I cannot answer it. I do not think that 2% is acceptable. Here's what I'm gonna say. It's not like people didn't get parole until the anklet was invented. It is not so that it was thought at that time: oh, now those people can be released on parole. That's two loose things. I respect Mr Markuszower's desire to get rid of parole. Yeah, well, then you don't have the anklet condition anymore. You still have attachments and other variants in which an anklet is very useful. If people are released on a conditional basis, because the assessment is that this is appropriate, I believe that the anklet has added value in monitoring compliance with the conditions. The anklet is not simply used; this is preceded by a careful feasibility study by the probation. It will then be checked whether it is possible to monitor effectively with the anklet. If analysis shows that there is a flight risk, it is recommended that the anklet should not be used, as this does not prevent 100% withdrawal from supervision. Then you really must take away freedom. It happens that afterwards it turns out that someone who did not have an estimate of a flight risk is still fleeing. Then it wasn't seen in the assessment. It is also recommended that the anklet is not the most appropriate means. Then it's advised to keep someone in custody. It may be that the judge says, "No, we don't." For example, it takes too long or there is another reason. Someone gets out in that case and then it's better with an anklet than without an anklet. It is not that we think that the anklet is suitable for all cases. As I said, in over 98% of cases, things are going well. Since 2016 there has been 35 sabotages. The reports come in immediately and are all followed up. However, there are differences in the way the report is followed, depending on someone's crime and background. In case of serious cases, the police are immediately called in to track someone down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u147	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mr Markuszower, it is also intended that the Secretary of State should give an answer and not be interrupted after every sentence. Then it's getting a little clueless. Your first-term questions must also be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u149	I shall confine myself to this question and then allow the Secretary of State to speak. In 2016, there were 35 incidents. We are now about halfway through 2017. Is there anything you can say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u150	That number of 35 covers the period from 1 January 2016 to last week, when I wrote the letter. I would also like to dwell on improving the anklet. I mentioned this in the letter because we are doing it; that project was already running. I would like to point out that the new anklet is more difficult to cut, but this is not impossible. That has not so much to do with lack of technical ingenuity. It's possible. You can have a band made of steel; then it becomes complicated to keep your leg and not the band. It has more to do with the demand that the band should be able to get off. What I wrote in the letter, namely that this should be possible for medical reasons, is not only theoretical. It happens that the hospital calls with the probation: "Can we cut him loose? For it is medically necessary." That is necessary and therefore the band must be able to release. It's true that you can make it firm, which makes it less exciting, let me just put it this way. Anyone who knowingly plans all of this will also be able to cut the new variant. I do not want to raise expectations that we cannot meet. That has to do with the reasons I just mentioned. Technological futuristic can do anything, as Mr Hiddema said. Technological ingenuity is enough. I refer to the film Wedlock with Rutger Hauer from the early nineties. Technically anything is possible, even that you can't get out of it under penalty of death. But I don't think this is desirable. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how the people who had gone wrong had been given the anklet and were eligible for it. It starts with the decision to suspend custody or to release someone on parole. That's the first consideration. It shall be made on the basis of the risk assessment, including the flight risk. The other interests of society and the interests of the suspect or of the perpetrator are also considered. If a positive opinion is given or if the court still seeks a negative opinion, it will be examined whether the electronic control is feasible in itself. This happens per case; it is not categorized for certain types of offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u151	Let us see what is going on in practice. From discussions with judges and prosecutors, I have reason to believe that in the Netherlands we should not impose provisional detention for so long. There is also pressure from the European Court and from Dutch judges. People think: then we'll let them go, because our criminal trials take so long. One can hardly handle it. There is a fundamental problem here, which is precisely why the worst offenders are being released prematurely, as they are being investigated in depth and often internationally. That can't be the intention. Does the Secretary of State recognize that and what can he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mrs Van Toorenburg's logic is correct: the detention period will indeed take longer. That is of course related to the gravity of the suspicion, because a judge will accept longer detention for the investigation if the suspicion is heavier. Those factors go together, because the longer it takes in relation to the gravity of the suspicion, the sooner the judge will say that it has been enough with that remand. That is why we also have an interest in the fact that it is independent of the principle that criminal proceedings can be speeded up by the public prosecutor's office. There are indeed extensive and complex investigations taking place. The judge then decides whether suspension is appropriate. Shortening the lead times is one of our objectives and the necessary measures have been taken. For that, there are also sections of the state's attorney's office, and that can all contribute to a less rapid suspension of pre-trial detention by a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u153	But there's something weird in there, basically. That's what the judges and officers report themselves. You have a number of conditions for remand. If they are no longer met, a person may be suspended. But now we actually think that these conditions are being met. However, there are serious objections. There are grounds, but it takes so long. What do judges do? They send people home with an anklet, a freedom restriction that doesn't really fit. That's a problem I want appointed today. I want to see how we can get out of there today. Can the Secretary of State give up his analysis and discuss it with the Court of Justice and the College of Attorneys General? There is a real pain here at the moment, because something is actually being done wrong because our criminal trials take so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u154	That's the other side. If the process goes faster, you're less at risk. There will always be investigations that take a long time due to the nature of the investigation and the complexity of the case. Even if it is faster because the lead times are shorter, you will keep this problem and then the judge will have to consider the criteria that have been laid down for it. I'm quite willing to check it out and talk to them to make sure it doesn't become automatic. You're gonna have to check the remand for yourself. When the judge says that it should be suspended, I think it is important, in the interests of safety, to see if we can monitor with an anklet. It's not like you're saying there's an anklet; that's why you can suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u155	I see this as a commitment. I am committed to this because we are looking together at the re-evaluation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We can take it into account in our thinking about that. It is precisely at this point that it is now becoming a kind of escape route. How big is the problem and what could we possibly do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u156	Building on this: I have also asked about the long processes. The commitment is good in itself, because then we can see what the causes are. However, I would ask the Secretary of State not to ignore any capacity problems, precisely because we know that in Brabant and elsewhere, the delays in the courts are simply very great. That has just to do with the capacity problems. Is that involved in this commitment? Is it being visualized there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u157	I hesitate, because I think we already have the necessary pathways for the capacity of the judiciary and the police. In any case, the quality needs to be improved in order to improve the lead times. We also need to ensure that it is more compatible in the criminal justice chain. In my opinion, the Ministry has also informed the Chamber in the past about capacity aspects. These are simply current cases, which are, in a manner of speaking, exchanged by budget between the Chamber and the Cabinet. So I think we already have routes that meet Mr Van Nispen's wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u158	Sure. We always look at the causes of long trials, but I think it is wise not only to look at the rules and the desires of the defense, but also to look at any capacity problems. We must not close our eyes to this, and I think it would be useful to take this into account in the same context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u159	I think the eyes are open to that. Movements have already been made in recent years to mobilise resources to meet these capacity bottlenecks. I agree with Mr Van Nispen that we should continue to do this. Mr Van Oosten asked for the assurance that the anklet is not a substitute for punishment. That's right. The anklet is for the control of suspects and convicted persons who are released on condition and is not a substitute for the sentence. I understand that this picture is persistent, because in other countries it is true and in the Netherlands it has been suggested once, but it has not continued. So we're not doing that. It's not a substitute for punishment. It's good to have that clear. Mr Van Oosten also asks what we are doing with the rest of the sentence of someone who had been released on parole but violates the conditions and withdraws control by disabling or cutting the ankle bracelet. In that case, a withdrawal of the conditional release shall be sought. The idea is that you violated the terms and you didn't deserve to be out of jail. Mr Van Oosten also asked about the Task Force on Robberies with a view to combating spin-door crime. The plan of that task force has been largely implemented, including the part of enhanced monitoring of perpetrators of high-impact crimes from detention. Inside it falls where possible and also necessary the use of an anklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u160	I find that an interesting answer from the Secretary of State, because on 23 May we received a letter stating that electronic surveillance of adult robbers is indeed being stepped up. Is this actually the proposal that was launched a few years ago, that someone should be wearing the anklet after serving the sentence for two years? Or is the effect a little less heavy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u161	It's not standard two years with everyone. It remains custom-made, but within the possible forms of supervision of multiple victims after their detention there is also the possibility to apply an anklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u162	I don't need to know exactly to the decimal point, but I do have a question about that. A few years ago, the Task Force was set up. It is very broad, with the participation of the government and public and private parties. The signal from that task force was very clear: after a sentence, a revolving door criminal must have an anklet on him for at least two years. In a letter from the cabinet, it is then stated that electronic surveillance in such cases has been further intensified to avoid recurrence, but is that also an effect of the proposal? Or have some more revolving door criminals been given an ankle bracelet than before, but perhaps not for the period originally envisaged? That period was not just mentioned, because it is people who constantly go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u163	Mr Van Oosten himself must judge where we are on that line. You can't give every recidivist of high-impact crimes an anklet for two years by default. We don't. However, use has been stepped up following the recommendations of the Task Force. We therefore comply with that recommendation, but it is still necessary to look at each individual case and check whether an anklet has added value and is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u164	Very briefly, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u165	I'm gonna take a closer look. There will undoubtedly be further debates on this subject. Can the Secretary of State send a short note stating to what extent the interpretation contained in this letter can be seen of the proposal of the Task Force Robberies from a number of years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u166	Yes, if there is a need for clarification, we will give it. Mr Van Oosten also had questions about whether or not the withdrawal from supervision by cutting the ankle bracelet is punishable. The Members of Parliament have already exchanged a great deal of information about this. I won't analyze all of that or do it again. Cutting other people's property is destruction, so that's a criminal offense. Of course, that's something other than expressing that cutting an ankle bracelet is something other than destroying someone's scooter, so you think that taking out control is a more important point than the fact that that thing is broken. Then you should see it more broadly, I think. Then it would be weird again to focus on the anklet. Escape from prison is also avoiding deprivation of liberty, and then it would be weird if you didn't have it there. If we do it by piece, we'll roll from newspaper article to newspaper article, and I don't think that's the intention. Then you'd have to look at it more broadly. If the Chamber needs it, we can see to what extent it is desirable and feasible. The question is therefore whether it adds anything and whether judges will not say that it is double-up. In the past we have seen that we had a punishment and a measure and that the judge said that the measure already found a punishment, so it could not double. We will therefore have to look at the extent to which treaties and regulations relate to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u167	I would find it much more interesting to know whether there is indeed a report of destruction and whether that damage is being recovered in all cases. I think that's much more interesting than seeing if you can think of an additional criminal offence that might affect people who can't find it. Then it doesn't make any sense. It may also be that those people who, because the conditions have been violated, are already returning to prison, so you can simply deal with them on the basis of the current Code of Criminal Law. I find that more interesting and I would like to hear an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u168	It is not a coincidence, as it was discussed with people from the field in the run-up to this debate. They said that if such a thing is broken or gone, you want at least a fee for it. If you know where someone took it off, you can find it often. That's how accurate the GPS is usually, but not always. You want him back. They said, in practice, they have a legal problem with the judge saying: you mainly want to claim damage, you only do that civilly rather than by prosecuting for destruction. We do, but I've been told that in practice we run into some complications. So that's where it is now. If the Chamber so wishes, we could take that into account in that broader consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u169	Yes, please. Nice commitment. I think it's much more interesting to see how you can enforce the existing law than to think of something on top of it that I really wonder what it adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u170	I couldn't quite follow the Secretary of State's answer. If there is a report and someone is charged with destroying that thing, I think it is a cold trick for parole to then join as an injured party and ask for compensation in that criminal proceedings. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State where exactly these problems are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u171	I can therefore clarify that. I had the same reasoning. I also said, it's not that hard, is it? In practice, however, this was more complicated. Since yesterday, I have not been able to go through the entire legal analysis and study statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u172	If the Secretary of State does send a letter to Mr Van Oosten, he might also be able to include the clarification of this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u173	Yeah, sure. I'll send that letter to the whole room. I also take this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u174	The Secretary of State said "if the Chamber would appreciate it." In the meantime, I have noticed that the Chamber is indeed very much in favour of this. Is it a promise that a letter will actually be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u175	Yes. It's a little moody with the head nodding. It is a little faint to wait for the vote on a motion, so I would like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u176	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr Groothuizen asked about the pace of intervention. The call that something's wrong is real time. On the basis of the risk profile and the criminal profile of a person, a whole follow-up protocol will then determine the step to be taken. It may be that there is no malicious intent in the game, but that for example the charger does not work, that is recorded immediately when you call and the person in question says that the charger does not work. Then you drive there with a new charger. You don't have to do that with screaming sirens. It may also be that you immediately see in your system that it is a problem figure that has something heavy on it, that it is already uncomfortable and that the person in question is in the highest profile. Then you call the police right away to go after them. That's how the parole board does it. There is also scope for action. You can just see it right away. The signal's coming right in. You can also see where someone was last. You can follow a whole trail. If someone commits a criminal offence, at least there is evidence where the person was at the time the offence was committed. Was he at the crime scene or not? The prototype of the new ankle bracelets has been developed. First we will do a pilot to see if there are any disadvantages to the new ankle bracelets. Like I said before, it's firmer. But I've also dampened expectations of it before. Mr Van Nispen asked about the capacity to track down those seven fugitives. How active are we looking? The fugitives have been spotted and are wanted by the police. In some cases, the Fugitive Active Search Team (FAST) is also enabled to do so, which works under the responsibility of the National Park. That team focuses on the international detection of fugitive justices when international detection is at stake. So the capacity is there. Then you must find an opportunity to find and apprehend the people. Mrs Buitenweg talked about prices and opportunities. It's a little complicated to say a lot about that. It's there and we offered the white paper. I'm a missionary now, so I'm gonna have to focus on the political interpretation of that. The decision-making process will no longer take place under the present cabinet and the cabinet will no longer provide any vision. I think it would be wise for this to come from the field. This didn't happen top-down. It has not been said: I want a report in which it says so and so. This is really expert-driven. It is then up to the politicians to decide on the desirability. But since the white paper is controversial and I'm outgoing, I don't think this is a good time to go into it extensively. Mrs Buitenweg also referred to the conclusions of the College of Human Rights on the insufficient motivation of decisions on pre-trial detention. Mr Van Nispen recently asked written questions on this subject, which were answered by the Minister. This simply makes it clear that decisions to impose provisional detention often do not provide sufficient justifications by judges, in any case the written justifications. The case-law has now taken action to repair this, to improve the justification for the decision on pre-trial detention and to establish professional standards for it. The Minister assumes that those improvement actions that have been implemented will also lead to improvements in the justifications for those decisions. So, if the minister assumes that, I'm assuming that. Mrs Buitenweg also asked a question about the capacity for risk assessment of probation or case law. I have no signs that it would suspend or that capacity would be the problem that leads to the issues we are debating today. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the follow-up of sabotage reports. He was wondering if it was linked to the criminal mode. I was just saying that you always respond, but that the decision about how you respond to it depends on the criminal mode, but also on the risk profile of the person concerned. This is therefore laid down in a joint follow-up protocol. I'm on bail now. This is, of course, a side issue, because this kind of supervision can also be imposed in the event of a bail-out. I think there's a movement here. There is the principle that as long as a person has not yet been convicted, he is deemed innocent and therefore a decision should be able to wait as much as possible in freedom. In addition, there is the practice where we are afraid that people are gonna leave and that is why pre-trial detention can be useful. That remand can be suspended with an anklet and also with a bail. In doing so, the judge must weigh the seriousness of a suspicion and the purposes to be served for the criminal proceedings against the defendant's interests in order to await the decision in freedom. In the individual cases, the court must also determine the conditions for such suspension. So such a condition could be bail. In doing so, the judge must assess whether the deposit, and its level, will be effective. Is it possible to prevent the defendant from getting away from his prosecution? The financial position of a suspect will also have to play a role in determining the amount of the deposit. In doing so, the judge is dependent on the information provided to him or her by the prosecution and the defendant himself. That information will have to cover the risk that the prosecution believes that the suspect will flee, but also the financial position of the suspect and the probable source of the assets. There is no extensive financial investigation in this context at the moment. There are, however, a few safeguards to prevent it from going through criminal money, like it can't deposit from a foreign bank account. The asset position of the suspect, as far as it is understandable, is also taken into account, but that is an assessment. Following the announcement and the request of the Chamber, the Minister of the Week sent a letter stating that he would discuss with the College of Attorney General and the Council of Justice the question of whether better safeguards could be created to prevent people from leaving after the payment of the deposit and/or that double the deposit would be bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u178	I am very pleased with the letter and the commitment, but I want it to be more specific. Is it possible to imagine that for certain categories of offences the collateral is simply no longer possible? We have to be very honest: in the case of serious criminals, in the case of drug criminals with assets, who eventually get the opportunity to discuss security, can we feel that it is criminal money on our clogs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u179	Nor do I have the impression that, after a legitimate, successful and lucrative career, people choose to go on the criminal path for other reasons. Mrs Van Toorenburg's question will be pleased to take the Minister's discussion with the College of Attorneys General and the Court of Justice. It will examine whether this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u181	I, too, welcome the commitment. We really need to look at how best to prevent criminals with criminal money from buying off their punishment and fleeing. But I understood the letter in such a way that this problem is looked at in the full extent of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Do I understand that the discussion about this and the consideration of what is possible in the short term will take place much faster, namely just soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u182	Yes. You do not have to wait for the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure when it comes to matters that can be dealt with without legislative change. The Minister will therefore discuss it with the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice as soon as possible. He will therefore ask for guidelines to be developed and shared with the Chamber. It can of course also lead to the conclusion that the most effective thing is to be cautious with the deposit. The Court has first called for this to be used more often, but that is simply a moving insight. We must then talk about what is the most desirable course to sail at that point. Unless I skipped questions, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u183	Thank you. I'll see if the MPs need a second term. There is a need for a very short second term. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u184	Madam President. For years, convicts have been getting more ankle bracelets instead of being in jail for a long time. Last year this happened almost 1,800 times, while in 2012 only 900 ankle bracelets were imposed, but still too much. That's a doubling in less than five years. With an anklet on, criminals can continue to kill and rape. That's already happened. Society really needs to be better protected. In the nineties the anklet was introduced because there was a cell shortage, but we now have a cell surplus and so the anklet as a means is no longer needed. That is why I am tabling a motion asking the Chamber to put an end to this madness and to abolish the anklet: no more anklet for those in custody and no more anklet for those who are simply supposed to be in jail. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the government, ankle straps should always be cut and that criminals actually do so;]] [[noting that an anklet does not prevent convicted persons from committing a crime;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the law so that suspects and convicted persons can under no circumstances be placed under electronic supervision during criminal proceedings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u185	Mr. Chairman. Let's not throw the baby away with the bathwater. We are seeing major problems with the implementation, so to speak, of the anklet and the guarantee. On both these points, things need to be improved. I welcome the three commitments made by the Secretary of State which I have noted. Firstly, he will carry out an analysis in consultation with the sector. It looks like the anklet is being used improperly. People should be in remand. The grounds are there and there are serious objections, but still someone is released, suspended, albeit with an anklet. How is that possible? What are the pain points? Secondly, I note the undertaking that it will be examined whether the withdrawal of measures or penalties cannot be imposed on its own account and what are the advantages and disadvantages thereof. Is that possible in terms of human rights? Shouldn't you be looking beyond the anklet? I'm thinking about not participating in aggression training. Do you have to go wider? That's what I like to hear. Thirdly, the Secretary of State is going to take a serious look at the bail. He, or in this case the Minister, takes with him the people who have committed dangerous, serious crimes with financial gain. Shouldn't you choose a limit in such a case? What is the effectiveness of that? I welcome those three commitments. Let that be today's profits. We have three instruments that can help, but only if properly applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I paid particular attention to the fact that an ankle bracelet is being disabled, broken, with the sole aim of avoiding the supervision imposed by the State. I very much welcome the fact that the Secretary of State has made a firm commitment to investigate further the question of whether and, if so, how criminal proceedings and separate criminal provisions deserve a place when it comes to specifically withdrawing from supervision. I brought it back to the anklet in the first term, but I saw all the comments made by the various colleagues as support. They rightly say: you should not only think about the anklet, there are other forms of supervision, so let's take a good look at them. We do not accept that our country remains unsafe, because people are evading the imposed supervision. I therefore welcome the commitment. I'll wait and see. I will ask the Secretary of State if we can receive that inquiry this year. I think this is a theme that we should not put in a drawer. It deserves to be followed up, so we'll have to follow up in a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u187	I don't know if someone's gonna get double-punished. On the one hand, freedom is withdrawn and people go to jail. On the other hand, they're going to be subject to an additional sentence. I would therefore like to hear from you in your proposals how this relates to the fact that you should not be punished twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u188	I think I was very clear. As far as I am concerned, it is a separate criminal offence, so there is no double criminal offence for the same crime. We do not think it is normal for a person to do so, for him to withdraw from supervision in such a way. So he deserves a separate criminal prosecution and a separate prison sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u189	But a double effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u190	If that's how you want to explain it. Someone is being punished for committing a murder in a manner of speaking. He gets out after two thirds of the sentence, walks with an anklet and then breaks that anklet. I think this is a separate crime, which should be prosecuted separately. It should lead to a separate measure of punishment, irrespective of the fact that a third of the sentence has not been served and that the person concerned is therefore expected to be in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u191	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I do not have two elements in this regard with regard to the guarantee. In my view, there are countries in which the judge should look at the amount of the security in determining the amount of the income of a suspect and/or the amount of the potentially illegally obtained assets. Because I think the Secretary of State should look into this, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the level of security ensures to a sufficient extent that a suspect will not evade further prosecution;]] [[noting that to ensure this, inter alia, it is possible to find a connection with the estimated illicitly acquired assets and/or the income of a suspect;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how the estimated illicitly acquired assets and the income of a suspect can be taken into account when determining the amount of the security;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber by letter of the outcome of this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u192	Maybe I don't understand, but I think the Secretary of State has just promised to look at that whole financial aspect. This seems to me to be merely a reflection of what the Secretary of State has just promised. I am happy that we are getting a motion on this, but I think that a commitment has just been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u193	I see this as a clarification, because I have not heard the Secretary of State explicitly say that he is going to involve the amount of the illegally acquired wealth and/or income. This is therefore an addition to what the Secretary of State has said. I will continue my speech. Furthermore, I think it is wise that, if a deposit is paid, there is no waiting for any signal to be sent to the FIU before we investigate it, but that the guarantor should already give an insight into the origin of the money when offering a deposit. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for a security to be paid with illegally obtained money;]] [[whereas it is therefore important for the prosecution and judges to know the origin of the money if a guarantee is offered;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how the suspect, or a third party, may be required to provide a guarantee to provide insight into the origin of the money;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber by letter of the outcome of this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-501]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u194	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, it has been a lot about conditional release. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that Europe is exerting pressure to impose fewer provisional detentions. I do not think it is really about this; it is mainly about the requirement that there should always be an individual consideration. In fact, this is not happening enough, or at least there is insufficient justification. The Secretary of State has just indicated that this needs to be improved and will be improved. That's very important. Then it can also be better weighed if alternatives such as the anklet are needed. That consideration is really crucial. It is crucial in order to avoid excesses or the problems that have led to this debate, but also to prevent unnecessary detention and, therefore, unnecessary withdrawal of freedom. The study of the Human Rights College referred to earlier showed that in the 300 cases examined 15 people were ultimately not imprisoned and therefore had already been wrongly imprisoned. Forty-two people were punished for the same length of time as the parole. That is to say, the punishment actually depended on the length of the trial, which means that there is once again a imbalance in the sentence. In short, it is very important for GroenLinks that we also keep our heads cool and balance in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u196	I'm giving up a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u197	Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u198	Madam President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I think it has come out well that the ankle bracelet is not a panacea but can be a useful tool, not rather than, but in addition to prison. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitments. I support Mr van Oosten on the point of making some speed with the note that has been announced about possible self-criminalisation of the withdrawal from supervision, of the escape from prison or of the other possibilities that have been mentioned. It is good to look at that in a broad perspective, but it would be nice if we could receive the note later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Markuszower, you wish to amend your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u200	Madam President. I would like to change the operative part of my motion as follows: 'calls on the government to amend the law so that suspects and convicted persons can under no circumstances be placed under electronic supervision during the criminal proceedings and the complete execution of the sentence imposed'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u201	The Markuszower motion (, 29279, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the government, ankle straps should always be cut and that criminals actually do so;]] [[noting that an anklet does not prevent convicted persons from committing a crime;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the law so that suspects and convicted persons can under no circumstances be placed under electronic supervision during criminal proceedings and the complete execution of the sentence imposed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 499 (, 29279).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower's motion would, in my view, lead to less supervision of these people. That's why I don't recommend this one. The Groothuizen/Van Nispen motion in part No. I would like to take over 500, if the Court does not object, because it fits in with what I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u203	I'll look around and see if anyone has any objection to taking over this motion. It seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, we can do that with the Groothuizen/Van Nispen motion in part No. 501, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u205	It turns out to me that there is no objection to this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u206	I have asked a question about the time limit within which the research promised can be sent. Just as Mr Van der Staaij reminded me, I would prefer to receive that inquiry this year, so that the Chamber can then proceed with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u207	This calendar year seems like a good deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-6.u208	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motion on Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
