ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u1	We are still waiting for Mr Ziengs to arrive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u2	I would like to welcome Mr Ziengs and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State stated in his reply that he wanted to ban neon, bronze, silver, gold, metallic and copper colours without any specific reference to a particular investigation. Does the Secretary of State share the view that policy should be based on sound research? The draft decision does not cover brand names of tobacco products, but many brand names and logos of cigar and cigarette brands contain elements that are likely to be banned. If these brands and logos are prohibited, there is an infringement of intellectual property rights. Can the Secretary of State clarify these specific cases? And can he indicate when the concept of the ministerial arrangement will be made public and what the envisaged timetable is for the official publication of this arrangement in the Official Journal? This should take into account the announced Internet consultation, the notification process at the European Commission and the World Trade Organization and the date on which manufacturers and importers must comply with the new legislation. I also have one motion, which I shall now read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that earlier similar amendments to the Tobacco and Smoking Products Scheme had been subject to a transitional period of 10 months;]] [[Whereas there is not yet a concrete date on which the requirements laid down have been made public;]] [[calls on the Government to bring into force, within the framework of good administration, the further packaging requirements 10 months after the date of publication of the established requirements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32011-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u4	We'll wait for the Secretary of State to get a copy of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ziegs asked me whether I also believe that the policy choice of whether or not we in the AMvB impose further requirements on packaging should be based on good research. The following comments can be made on this. The study carried out by the Trimbos Institute, which I referred to in the debate and in the written documents, indicates that the appearance of tobacco packaging can lead to attention for the product, in particular for young people. That's what research has been done. Together with the Trimbos Institute, the RIVM and the Dutch Food and War Authority, literature, experience gained abroad and the product range in the Netherlands have looked at the focussing elements on the packaging. Based on the previous study, particular attention has been paid to packaging for young people, thereby increasing the likelihood of buying and using the tobacco product. There is always an arbitrary element in it; I would like to admit that to Mr Ziengs. It is based on research carried out abroad and an assessment has been made of what is most attractive. The choices we made have led to what is now in the AMvB. We will come up with further regulations. I will take Mr Ziegs' comment and see if it would lead to a disproportionate burden on some products. I think Mr Ziengs asked a little about that. We can still look at when the ministerial regulation is to come into force, but the AMvB is now as it says. I do not see that this leads to problems as Mr Ziengs envisages. This is based on research. It does not lead to a disproportionate effect for cigars and cigarillos. Earlier in the debate, we exchanged the view that we should continue to monitor the development of the market. We have looked at the existing packaging and, on that basis, we have said which things should be banned. I have also indicated that we will continue to monitor developments in the market. It may well be that packaging is being readjusted and that we will have to change at a later date because we are getting other signals from the market. It's not like it's stopped with this AMvB. After all, tobacco manufacturers are very creative and, if that leads to other products that we believe should be covered by the AMvB, we should in any case propose changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u6	Let me get this straight. At the time we talked about the packaging. In the debate on the Tobacco Act, we mainly discussed new packaging. Think of sounds, smells and such. In the existing packaging, there is also a proper intervention in the context of the colours I mentioned. Are we really talking about new packaging, or are we talking about the old packaging?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u7	We are talking about existing packaging, so old and new.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u8	Does that mean that any new AMvB will be submitted to the Chamber, or is this something that we put before the Secretary of State and which he can then decide independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u9	In view of the questions put by Mr Ziengs on this subject, I think it would be appropriate to put that to the Chamber. Then it's the timeline. In the note to the AMvB I indicated that the intended date of entry into force of the AMvB is 1 July 2017 or the next fixed time of change. In the same explanatory statement, I indicated that the entry into force of the ministerial arrangement was part of the Internet consultation. In short, in this internet consultation we can find out what a reasonable introduction period is. To be honest, I think it is too early to say, without having had that Internet consultation, that is ten months. I know that the manufacturers point this out, but we still have an internet consultation to see what a reasonable introduction period is. I suggest we wait for that consultation. On that basis, I will take a decision on a reasonable period of time. I wouldn't want to get ahead of myself. I fully understand Mr Ziegs' remark that there must be a reasonable period of time. Let's wait for the internet consultation on that point. For this reason, I would like to discourage the motion at this time, knowing that the internet consultation will lead to further decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u10	I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-15.u11	The vote on this motion will take place next week.
