ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the Tax Plan 2018. This evening, the debate is to continue with the first term on the part of the government and then the second term on the part of the Chamber. Of course, I welcome again the Secretary of State who also spent the night with us yesterday. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was indeed a special afternoon, evening and night. Last night I learned a lot, including about tax policy in the 1970s. That wasn't my specialty yet, but I thought it was definitely worth listening to. You almost forgot, but now we're just going from Hillen back to what we're actually always doing around this time of year and that's talking about the Tax Plan. This time again a multitude of measures that come together and are also offered in a collective law. This time I have the special feature that we are initially merging a Rutte II package, as it was called so beautiful yesterday, with a Rutte III package through the letter of amendment. They're all coming together here now. It is true that the multitude of things stood a bit in the way of making a very logical division into cubes. The members of the House noticed this at the input and I noticed it myself this morning when trying to divide it into cubes. So I hope that the Chamber will not blame me for going through the answers a little erratic occasionally. Sometimes also briefly, because I have already addressed some of the questions in the written set or during the legislative consultation. That's how I try to keep the pace in my answers a little high. I do that on the basis of the tax laws as we have offered them. Then there's one more cup of "Outside." It's no different. Those are actually all the questions raised in connection with the coalition agreement, which in a way are also related to taxation in general. They do not really come back into the legislative proposals before us, but I think it is important to answer them. I'll be the last to do that. As far as I'm concerned, that's the way I want to deal with it. I think I'll just start with a familiar question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr President, I have an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u4	Another order proposal? What's this again? Sorry, Mr. Van Weyenberg, so we can keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u5	My question is whether advice on the amendments will be given in the first period or in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u6	Oh, a procedural remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u7	The intention is to really do that in the second term. We have also had written sets in the past, in which we try to remove a number of technical questions. Unfortunately, after our special adventure last night, that didn't quite work out. So that's what I'm doing now. If everyone thinks 'hey, I would still have a question through an amendment', then I will come back to that in the second term. I would like to start quickly with a first question about the burdens that came from Mr Nijboer and about which others have said something earlier. What exactly does this coalition agreement do? What is relief and a little burden increase? I feel like we've talked about that five, six or seven times. There is a very clear table indicating a basic path: that is a burden increase, then comes the coalition agreement, which reduces the burden of 6.5 billion, and that amounts to an increase of 3.4 billion in total. That's just the familiar table we used before. There is always the question: how much is for citizens and how much is for businesses? You'll see that it's often hard for us to report that, because it's very arbitrary. Many of these measures do not clearly fall into the hands of ordinary citizens or businesses, or in the first instance fall into the hands of businesses, but they then pass it on to citizens. In the end, it is difficult to make that distinction by measure. Nor do I think that it would be useful to regulate exactly the coalition agreement measures. We never really do, and we didn't want to do that this time. Then Mr Omtzigt had a question about the block of income effects. He asked whether the new design of the income-dependent combination discount of the coalition agreement had any strange effects. Mr Nijboer asked what the consequences of this new design were for the people with the lowest incomes. He mentioned the example of the mailman. I think the essence of the answer is, as I mentioned earlier, that sometimes one euro less income can lead to a reduction of €1,000 due to this income-dependent combination discount. No one wants that. This is at the firmest level and the cabinet intends to remove this permanent foot from the IACK, to name it, in the first part of the IACK and replace it with a gradual income-dependent structure. Yes, perhaps that is the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question. Then I am asked whether I could not have done otherwise, whether I could not have started earlier or reduced down steeply. The answer is: everything could have been done, but it was not chosen. There are a lot of technical reasons for this choice, but I do not want to mention them all here. It was possible, but we didn't suggest it. There was another question about the silvering and whether it was linked to it. It is important to note that the people who could not generally fully insure an IACK against their own income could do so if their partner deserved enough. This is an important element to mention. A number of times the question has been asked about power inequality. Mr Bruins asked how I look at this and what contribution, for example, the phasing out of Hillen to that image. Mrs Leijten asked what the cabinet will do to increase this wealth inequality. These are understandable questions. It's a theme. You have income inequality, but you also have property inequality. You have international lists to compare that. Around income inequality we do very well, around property inequality we do not bad, but not as good as about income inequality. By the way, it is very difficult to fully appreciate these lists. This has been told before. Power is not really a clear concept and the measurement is quite problematic. An important difference is, of course, pension rights. This large build-up of assets is organized differently in the Netherlands than in other countries, which also saves differently within the Dutch pension system than in possibly other countries. If you correct this, you'll get another list. I'm not gonna comment on all the lists of pluses and minuses here. However, it indicates that there is inequality and that a number of measures in the coalition agreement improve this but that it continues to exist. The statistics that we think are the most complete are those of the CBS. It shows that the equity gap between households was indeed increasing between 2008 and 2013. It is important to know that this was mainly due to the fall in house prices during the economic crisis. You can see that these house prices are extremely important in these asset statistics, because at the time of the return of the housing market in 2014, you can see that capital inequality is not increasing anymore and is declining even in 2015, for the first time since the crisis. We think it is mainly because of the rise in house prices, looking at the build-up of capital statistics. This cabinet has not set as its objective, let me add, to redistribute assets. Nevertheless, the cabinet welcomes the fact that according to the latest figures, capital inequality has not increased further. Let's talk about the effect of phasing out Hillen. This means that a specific form of property, namely the paid-off own house, is less exempt from taxation. What exactly the effect is on property inequality is not entirely clear, because this also has to do with the influence on house prices. All in all, the CBS has indicated that it cannot calculate this. This does not make it possible to predict the impact of the measure on capital inequality. Mr Van Rooijen spoke a bit in a general sense about the negative picture of the purchasing power of older people. Mr Van Rooijen indicated that he felt that it did not look good and asked for arguments that could undermine this. It's important that I say a few things about this. There was a bit of a picture in the debate, even last night, that this cabinet has nothing but bad news for the elderly and the purchasing power of the elderly. That's really wrong. This is evident from all the figures we have offered in previous sets. I'll give you some important numbers. Over the next four years, the majority of elderly people are getting ahead of it. On average, 88% of elderly households are improving. That percentage is quite similar to the percentage of all households that are making progress, because that is even 94%. A number of Members of Parliament said yesterday that older people also benefit from the whole burden relief package of this cabinet. The low tax rate in the second, third and fourth discs is favourable for this group. They are also entitled to a higher general tax rebate. This higher general tax rebate is reflected in a higher AOW benefit through the net link. Moreover, the cabinet increases the elderly discount and the hard income limit of the elderly discount falls. It will be replaced by a phasing-out route. As a result, older people with an income of up to €47,000 receive a much higher elderly discount. That came out of the pictures yesterday. Older people often also have net power, more often than other groups. Therefore, they benefit from the tax-free capital in box 3. There are other measures, such as raising the care allowance for couples and abolishing the hard income limit in the rent payment. These are really beneficial for AOWS with or without a small pension. Finally, I would like to mention that many older people benefit from reducing their own payments in the Wlz and the Wmo. In short, that is a lot of measures. They are not just aimed at the elderly, but it is certainly not the case that older people are excluded from this. In fact, in some cases they benefit from it. I think it's good to mention that. Mr Van Rooijen pointed out that older people with supplementary pensions do indeed suffer from the lagging indexation of pension funds and that older people with higher pensions will suffer relatively more from this. I said earlier that we do not think it is a task of the government to compensate for an incomplete indexing directly, one-on-one. Pension funds and social partners are responsible for their share of the supplementary pension scheme. They are also responsible for policies on premiums and indexation. The limited indexing of supplementary pensions is indeed detrimental to the purchasing power of pensioners, but it also has adverse effects for workers. Their pension claims are also indexed on a limited basis. This measure, therefore, does not only fall into the hands of the elderly. Of course, the people who are still in a build-up phase also suffer from the limited indexation of pensions. The government also provides a value-proof AOW for everyone who has reached the AOW age. The AOW is also indexed. Therefore, those with or without a small pension are improving. Finally, a comment was made in this context on tax age discrimination. I don't know if that's an official term. Mr Van Rooijen is good at putting forward new concepts, so if this is a new concept, we would say: no, there is no age discrimination against the elderly. Older people are just as entitled to a tax rebate, which young people are not entitled to. The comparison made earlier by Mr Van Rooijen about differences in the rate of reduction between the labour discount and the old-age discount is therefore simply not valid, as I think I have already said in writing. They have other goals. In addition, older people are entitled to a reduction in working hours. One- and two-earners were an important theme in the debate. Mr Dijkgraaf mentioned this. Mr Bruins came back to it later. There are a lot of one-earning people who work. We've had a very large bundle of 720 letters. We browsed them a little bit yesterday, but I haven't quite been able to take them to me yet. My officials are working on that. We'd like to have some attention to it. But if you really look at what the cabinet does for the difference between two- and one-earners, we actually find, as Mr Bruins said, that the cabinet does quite a lot for one-earners. We are thinking of the flat rate in the two-disk system. The tax treatment of two- and one-earners is thus much more balanced. So it doesn't matter whether the family income is earned with one or two incomes. Moreover, earners also benefit from raising the phasing-out limit in the child-related budget for couples, and from raising the care allowance for couples. Moreover, the cabinet reduces the marginal pressure on the trajectory between the minimum wage and €35,000 really significantly. In particular, a earners who can be seen to come back in all purchasing power images will benefit from this. At first, they really suffered from extreme marginal pressure. That pressure's still there, but it's pretty much gone. On balance, we see below the line that the single earner with a moderate income is on average the most successful of all groups: on average 2% per year. This is almost the same as in the whole period 2000 to 2018, when it was 3%. We are not yet there yet, which was also indicated, but if there has been a cabinet in the process of transposing this problem into legislation, then it is this cabinet. Again, the letters are, of course, very well viewed by the officials. We'll see if we can take that into consideration in a thought-forming towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr Van Rooijen, I will give you the floor in a moment, but some 200 questions were asked yesterday about the Tax Plan and the so-called Law Hills. All those questions from MPs need to be answered. I would actually like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer as many of those questions as possible. If questions have remained, if questions have remained unanswered, you can say something about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u9	I had the impression that the Secretary of State had discussed an entire block about the elderly. I only had one brief question about that. I've been using the term "fiscal age discrimination" for years. In particular, it refers to the forest tax. Perhaps you'd like to take that into account in a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u10	I now also give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The sole earner was the mainstay of my story, so with your permission I would like to ask a question about that. I agree with all the texts issued by the Secretary of State. I also thanked him for the plans and the purchasing power and all that. This is without prejudice to the fact that this gap is very large due to the non-transferable general tax rebate, by the employment discount, by the IACK. The last sentence of the Secretary of State was: "We take it with us in the shaping of our minds for the future." I had specifically asked if the Secretary of State would be willing to work out proposals on how to reduce the difference if you so wish by the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u12	The way I chose my words shows that I do not want to make that commitment so directly. Look, I want to read those letters first. Besides, it's not just those letters. We know from our own history that there is a lot to be found about it. Again, it is not my policy to go beyond what we are already doing. But if you have new information, I think you should seriously see if you can do something with it. The moment I formulate it as a letter I'm going to come up with and see what I'm going to do with it for the summer of 2018, I'm saying more than I want to say. I would like to look at it, but I do not want to make a commitment that it will then end up in a kind of new policy proposal from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u13	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u14	To be honest, that disappoints me, because we have asked the Prime Minister to do so in the General Reviews. He said the door's open. If there are concrete proposals, we will look at them with an open heart. In the General Financial Reviews, I asked the Minister to do so. That's what he says. I think there's a unit of government policy. It may have been empty words from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, but now I am looking for that unity of cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u15	I can assure you that it is not in danger. As you yourself put it, I also think you should look at everything with an open mind. It's about any discussion. The moment there's new information and you don't think it's what you want it to be, you have to do something with it. But the moment I say that I come up with some kind of policy idea to adjust it for 2018, that actually means that I'm not satisfied with what it's like yet. I haven't gotten there yet. It might also be too early to take that turn. I want to say that we really see and recognise this point. Once again, we are already doing a great deal about it in the coalition agreement with the measures we are proposing. But I don't want it to seem so far that I already have some kind of policy idea to address the issue. But I'd like to look at it open. I think that's the same as what was said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u16	I wanted to support Mr Dijkgraaf in this. I've been talking about it myself in my term. We have also discussed it for a long time during the days when we have been preparing. It is precisely because the government recognises that there is a problem and is trying to address it with the new tax measures that I think it would be good to look at how tax treatment affects all kinds of other areas when examining these letters. I am thinking of concessions that are also due to expire. Maybe there's some repair in there, too. I am also thinking of municipal schemes that are or are not possible because you are approached differently when you have the same family income.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u17	Clear. Maybe you'll come back to that, Secretary of State? This question has also been put to you in your first term, I understand, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u18	Not specifically this question. I shall continue with Mr Dijkgraaf's comment, which I would like to support. If there is a letter with an appreciation of those letters and if you say that you are already going far enough in the coalition agreement and that you do not want to depart from it in advance, please make an overview...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u19	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u20	... an overview of what there would be to all kinds of other measures, in which you could mitigate these consequences for the single-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u21	If you look at the plans of this cabinet, it does about as much as in the last 18 years for the purchasing power of the single earner with a modal income. So I think we've already turned on this volume button quite a bit. Then the question might be whether it can't handle a little harder. I get that. But before I say we're gonna find out if we can turn that button up, which I don't want to do, I'd like to see what's on the table. If this leads to new images, we can, of course, also come up with new policy proposals. But we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Bruins also had a question about the size of the elderly discount. I had already brought it up a little bit. Can't it be designed differently? I told you, we didn't choose that. The parameters were chosen in such a way that, in conjunction with the other measures of the government agreement, they led to a balanced purchasing power development over the years for the different groups. I've been told that it's really very crafted and worked and done, but in the end that's the outcome, and that's what we're working with right now. Mrs Leijten also asked whether an increase in the old age discount and gradual phasing-out would not be an improvement. My answer to that is actually the same as I just gave. She also asked why this could not come into effect earlier. Can't the IRS do that faster? The same applies to this matter as we have shared in connection with the Hills Act. This is a structural adjustment. He's got a 15-month walk-through. All this is neatly included in the parameter letter and shared with your Room. As a result of this process, the Tax Administration will not be able to implement the measure until we have proposed it. The tax year 2019 is therefore the next opportunity to incorporate the measure into the provisional assessment; that is, of course, what this is about. Mr Bruins also asked for the following. It seems, he said, that the basic rate is used as a closing point for any adjustment. Is that some kind of arrangement within the government agreement or not? We took a good look at that. It's often the case, we say. After all, it affects everyone and it has a certain simplicity in it. But it's certainly not some kind of rule. Nor would I say that whatever happens, you can think that there will be the adjustment. There are also really other possibilities to use. I just want to stress that, as far as we are concerned, it is not automatic that the first disc rate is always chosen to cover repairs. Now I'm getting to the box 3 story. There were a number of more technical questions and a number of questions that went more into the process. Mrs Leijten asked a long question about box 3 for wealthy people. In fact, she said: it is clear that people with a lot of money invest much more, and as people have more money, you should use a higher percentage. Why has the rate not been increased to 40% for the assets above 1 million to make it fairer? The answer to this is, in essence, that we are trying very hard to match the actual rate of return in box 3. That's what we're doing right now. A current return on savings is then assumed for savings. It is also the case that the way in which we do this, the citizens with a small capacity, are making the most of it in relative terms. Relatively, they are logically the biggest profiteer. "Profiteur" sounds more detrimental than I mean, I say. If we look at box 3, we see no further reason to make adjustments about the assets above 1 million. Mrs Leijten also asked why the Long-Term Care Act is based on a very different rate of return than savings. There's no 4% working here. How does that relate to box 3? The answer is rather short: it is simply not related; these two measures have nothing to do with each other or have not been drawn up in conjunction with each other. Because there's 4%, I understand that that thought could live, but it's really about different carrying principles than we have in box 3. That link in the way it's designed is just not there. Then Mr Nijboer asked whether or not I, or the cabinet, would be able to withstand the pressure when interest rates rise again, so that the capital yield levy could or should not be adjusted as interest rates rise or go down. That is always a nice question, but for the time being, of course, this is not the issue at all. On the contrary, we want the capital-dependent flat-rate return to be as consistent as possible with the actual returns. The flat-rate return is thus reviewed annually, on the basis of what it really is. The fact that it would be very far apart is less logical because of the new system. In the documents, I have already indicated that the CPB expects real returns to increase in the future and that it is therefore expected that the flat-rate return will also increase in the future and therefore the box 3 revenue will increase again. Again, that is simply inherent in the system we are proposing. We weren't actually going to change that either. Several people asked why a tax on actual returns is so structuralally problematic. The answer is two-fold. A tax on real returns is not only complex for citizens and financial institutions, but is also difficult for the Tax Administration. It is not, as has been suggested, that it is difficult for the Tax Administration and we are not going to do it; it is really difficult from both sides. It is difficult for the people who are responsible for it and for the people who have to control it. The declaration is simply becoming more complicated and the public's comprehensibility is decreasing compared to the rather simple system we now have. Moreover, it is very proud that we are not carrying the percentage for a substantial group of citizens, but what I remember is that it is more than 90% possible to fill in what is happening. That makes it extremely easy; people just need to check what their tax return looks like. That won't be possible anymore. For citizens with foreign assets or citizens who have to deal with death, divorce, immigration or emigration, there is nothing we can do. In these cases, citizens will have to keep track of all the data themselves and make the complex calculations, while they have not had to do so for years. The effects for the Tax Administration are also not entirely insignificant. In that case, it must try to control the situations provided by the banks in two weeks' time. This has a high level of risk with regard to the proper and timely pre-formulation of the declaration and is, logically, likely to lead to greater margin of error and manual corrections. For citizens with foreign assets and citizens who have to deal with death, divorce, immigration and so on, the Tax Office has no counter-information. So how do you check it? That's a real problem. Then you can say they see but how they do so, but we just don't have that information. In order to be able to monitor this, a significant......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's, I think, something we're not looking forward to right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u24	Let me come back to this new measure in the new package, the Rutte III package, on how to better match the return for people who save. Not the 4% that makes you intuitive on your savings, but something that reasonably fits in with what a savings account provides. The point is that we said in the past: with savings you will invest and achieve a return of 4%. This has really put the small saver at a disadvantage, but now that we want to join the savings, it is precisely those who invest and thus gain a higher return that benefit from it. There's a way that's gonna get out of hand. My proposal was to raise above 1 million more heavily, but I would like to know what would be an opportunity to reduce the difference that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u25	It is not entirely true that in the past the 4% was chosen for investment results, because there was no ruling on whether you would save or invest. There have been years, when this was introduced, when savings rates were much higher than 4%. I remember very well that the Minister of Finance always said: you can find anything, but with me you always get 4%. Those times have really changed. You don't get 4% on a Dutch state loan anymore. But in the new system, we see how rich someone is. It's still a fiction, because it's really a flat-rate system, but the richer you are, the more you're supposed to invest. For these investment returns much higher percentages are assumed than for the savings return. That's what the wealth groups are for. The higher the power, the more you're supposed to invest. Then you will also receive a higher percentage in box 3 on a flat-rate basis than when you only save.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u26	Of course, the advantage for people with a small capacity is relatively highest, but you can see that it is in absolute terms the most beneficial for the people who have the most. I'm looking for a way to narrow that down, because the Secretary of State said at the beginning of his speech that we're doing well on income differences and that we're doing fairly well on capital differences, but that we can do better. But this is actually a measure that increases the differences in capital. I'm just looking for an opportunity, because I appreciate that it's gonna fit in better with the little saver, but I think it's gonna be too out of line for those with a lot of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u27	We do not think so, otherwise we would not have proposed this measure. Again, there are a lot of people who don't just invest everything. There are also a lot of people who have quite a lot of money, but just keep it neatly on their savings account. This system has been deliberately chosen. We understand that you have a different investment mix as you have more power. There is also simply a flat-rate settlement when you have more power, because then you are supposed to invest more. We believe that this is very much in line with reality. It is not quite the real return, which many questions have been asked about, but what we are doing now is as much in line with that system as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mrs De Vries, Mrs Leijten and Mr Snels, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Nijboer and Mr Bruins asked me no longer to wait for a tax based on the actual return: it is in the coalition agreement, so what steps are you going to take? Once again, I know that it is in the coalition agreement and I understand the desire to ensure that the levy is fully in line with the real rate of return; we are now trying to mimic it as best we can in the system we have. The potential of such a levy has already been extensively investigated both in 2016 and 2017. This resulted, among other things, in a Keuzedocument box 3, which my predecessor sent you in June of this year. The conclusion of the choice document is that the implementation of a capital return tax based on the actual return on capital for financial institutions and citizens is complex and structuralally problematic for the Tax Administration, as I have just tried to explain. This wasn't a thin report. I believe that in almost 180 pages it tried to visualize all the ins and outs of this problem. So it went to the Chamber in June. You will understand that I have not had a ready-made solution myself since then. However, I would like to say that I have already promised this and is also in line with the coalition agreement that I will carry out further research on this issue in the forthcoming cabinet period in the context of further elaboration of the coalition agreement. Then here are all examples of how that is going to be with other countries. I'm gonna skip it now, and I'm not gonna read it to you. Then I'm going to a new block around corporate tax. Mrs De Vries was the first to ask me about it and reminded me in earlier legislative submissions that the package of burden-relieving and burden-relieving measures should be dealt with as much as possible at the same time. The question was asked, in particular, because the 2018 Tax Plan allows for the Vpb disc extension and the increase in the Innovation Box to be different from the other measures. I've already answered about the timing. In general, of course, we fully agree and try to bring it together, but in this coalition agreement the timing has been such that the overall package, to use that word once again, was balanced for purchasing power and also for business over time. Anyway, the wish is clear and understood. In the spring of next year, at least before the summer, I would like to come up with a fiscal legislative package where we try to cluster the measures of the government agreement as much as possible in order to monitor this coherence more closely, as Mrs De Vries asked. We cannot settle everything at once for the entire coalition agreement, but for a number of measures where coherence is very clear, we are trying to bring it closer together. The Innovation Box is linked to corporate tax. GroenLinks, I think DENK and Mrs Leijten too, I see, have asked about the effectiveness of the Innovation Box. What exactly is the situation with regard to the purpose of the Innovation Box, the location climate? Is the budgetary space allocated for this purpose the best used? Mr Azarkan asked me if every euro of tax relief would generate 50% of additional innovation, which is his summary and how it relates to the Wbso, and we are also trying to shape such a policy. He also asked whether it was not possible to phase him out. That's what I've put together a few key answers. 'Cause what turned out? The Innovation Box was evaluated in 2016. At least, it was previously evaluated and the evaluation was sent to the Chamber in 2016. It said that we are doing the next evaluation in 2022. It's in the books, too. According to that evaluation, every euro of tax relief is invested €0.54 in R&D. That is reasonable in itself; at least it is effective. Of course, you hope that this type of action will be 100%, but it does not appear in any measure, especially when it comes to stimulating innovation. That's not a one-on-one possibility. So in the end, the conclusion was that the Innovation Box was effective. Moreover, the Innovation Box is simply beneficial to the locational environment and, after the tightening up of the previous tax plan, also an internationally accepted instrument and part of the deal. The OECD and the European Code of Conduct Group have now approved the box. The Innovation Box should be assessed in conjunction with the Wbso. Indeed, the incentives of both instruments rely on a different stage in the innovation process. You really don't want one and the other doesn't want the other or the other a little bit more and the other a little less. They are really both necessary, because they are taking advantage of the innovation process at another time. Together they ensure a balanced distribution of benefits, including between large and small enterprises. I think there was a question about that too. In the present legislative proposal, the Innovation Box is further strengthened and raised to 7%. We believe that this is a responsible step, all the more so because the VPB tariff is also being reduced during this cabinet period. We are being asked what else we can expect. Is that going up? No, the Cabinet does not foresee any further increase in the Innovation Box during this reign. I have the feeling that I will return to the balanced distribution of Wbso later in my set. I think Mr Snels or Mr Van Weyenberg had asked me about it. If it doesn't come back, he'll have to ask. But I think it's coming back in another set. Mr Snels asked me whether the tariffs in the Vpb lead to avoidance or arbitration. Because if you do these kinds of rates, you can cut up an e.g. and then put down a lot of small ones, for example, that all just meet that boarding rate. That could be natural. That anticipation by taxpayers on disk boundaries applies to everything and can also give a tax advantage in the Vpb. But don't forget, therefore, you see in practice that it doesn't happen so often at all, and that it also leads to all kinds of additional administrative burdens and costs, such as accounting costs. For each e.g. all kinds of audit reports have to be issued and these are not free, I know from my own experience. There are also legal costs and costs associated with the Chamber of Commerce. So this is possible in itself, but it doesn't happen that much because there are other costs. I believe that Mr Snels was referring to a graph from which to conclude that about 500 taxable persons could send in to ensure that the taxable amount does not exceed €200,000. Compared to the total number of Vpb taxpayers, that is what we are talking about, and there are 700,000 people, so the number chosen for this is relatively small. If we calculate quickly, about 0.1% of Vpb companies are trying to get that effect. On balance, that is actually small and still no cause for concern for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u30	I have a short question about the Innovation Box. You just passed that, but I still have a question. It is about the evaluation scheduled for 2022. I'm very curious why we won't do that in three years. For 5.4 has not yet passed, as effective efficiency of the funds spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u31	Of course, you can try to evaluate everything after two years or six months. This kind of process doesn't go day to day. I think that is why it was said at the time, in 2016, that we now know that it is effective. The result of this €0.54 is not entirely. I'll admit it right away. We'd like to get that higher. But it is not the case that the advance evaluation, once we have this knowledge, will further improve or bring it forward. I think we should just try to use the Innovation Box as effectively as possible, in combination with the Wbso. We need to see if we can put the overall location climate in place as best we can when it comes to R&D activities. I do not think that bringing forward the evaluation is very helpful in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u32	Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u33	Let's see. There is a question from Mr Omtzigt about the third-party finance business test. That's about Article 10a of the Vpb Act. Maybe it's a little faint, but if you don't mind, I'll read the answer literally. Because 10a is one of the most complicated articles and if I say it just wrong, people are gonna look at me hard when I come to the department and I don't want to. Here I go. The interest deduction limitation of Article 10a Vpb 1969 relates to debts to an affiliated body. This provision therefore does not apply to direct external financing. However, it is good to note that from 1 January 2019 we will do it differently when it comes to the interest deduction. Now the Vpb has a forest of specific interest relief provisions. This creates a lot of complexity for taxpayers, but also for the Tax Administration. So not only for the Tax Administration, but also for taxpayers. Partly as a result of European regulation, virtually all specific interest relief restrictions are replaced by a single generic interest relief restriction. As you know, that's an earnings stripping measure. In that we actually try to make it clear at once. The interest deduction limitation of Article 10a of this Law Vpb 1969 will continue to apply, but the Earnings Stripping measure is robustly designed and, where appropriate, limited to interest rates on direct external financing. I hope that is the answer Mr Omtzigt was waiting for. The answer may be no, but this is what I have now. There was also a question about medicines. Mr Omtzigt asked: can the Secretary of State promise to keep an eye on him, together with his colleague from VWS, and will monitor the CBG's applications. The answer to that is yes. I had also indicated this in the legislative consultation. I will inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2019 about developments regarding the number of marketing authorisations requested by the CBG for 2018. In the second period of the legislative consultation, I had already indicated to Mr Snels that I would do so in order to monitor this. At that time, I made a commitment to inform the Chamber of the increase in the number of trade authorisations in 2018. One can go faster. The other one takes a little longer. That's what we're doing at the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u34	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes. After this, I'll be on sea-going vessels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u36	Seaships, of course. I have two points. Thank you for that last commitment. That's more than enough to keep an eye on it. If there's a problem, we'll figure it out. I do not yet have an answer to the question. That's why I'm asking him now, so that the Secretary of State may be able to answer him in the second term. In our example, we allowed external funding from the tax haven to enter another place in the structure. It is precisely then that it falls outside the anti-abuse clause that is now being introduced. We could go right around it. I would like to hear in the second period whether this is being fought, because if it is not being fought, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u37	I think that we can come back to that question specifically in the second term. I was just trying to make sure that we didn't go out with flowcharts to do all the intercessors. But on the specific question of whether we are aware of it and whether we are going to do something about it, I will answer it. I had arrived at the seaships by now. Mrs De Vries and Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the Secretary of State would like to discuss the impact of the VAT measure on sea-going vessels with the sectors and drivers concerned. That is about the motion that has been tabled before. It was already there at the time. Will the Secretary of State also consult with the parties that can mean something to the islanders? This was already discussed during the legislative consultation. That motion was filed at the time. I said that I had a certain understanding of that, that I could not do very much about it myself, but that I saw the point of the motion and that we are simply going to use the time to discuss it with the passenger services and the representatives. By the way, there is already consultation. Well, that's pretty constructive. As far as the position of the islanders is concerned, I indicated earlier that in the event of a real price increase, I was not opposed in advance to a form of compensation, but that it is still necessary to consider whether this can be done legally. That's actually still where we stand. The abolition of the agricultural regulation was a separate legislative proposal, but I will take it with me right now. There was a question about the coulance: could there be any coulance with farmers who had to keep a VAT administration for the first time? Would we keep an eye on that? I had already indicated in the legislative consultation that small farmers should logically get used to this. They didn't have that VAT administration yet. They'll get it now. The first declaration date for the farmer shall be 30 April. If he does not file his declaration in good time, i.e. not on 30 April, he can still count on a period of time of seven calendar days before any fine is imposed. You can also contact the Tax Phone at any time if you have any questions about filing a complaint. In consultation with the agricultural tax service providers, who are there too, we will also examine whether there are specific questions that we could anticipate at this stage. Why are these data so important? They are not because we want to be so strict in advance for these farmers, but because the VAT return is an automatic declaration. So you have an automatic process. This also means that it is automatically established whether the declaration has been submitted on time. All kinds of discretionary coulance is just tricky in such a system. However, we said that after submitting the first quarter, he had all the quarters thereafter to correct it by means of a supplementary declaration. We hope and think that this will have provided sufficient support to the farmer who will have to keep his VAT administration for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u38	Is this point also finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u39	Yes, this point has actually been completed. After this, we'll go to the horses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u40	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this comprehensive reply. Those were the literal words from the legislative consultation. A VAT annual return is a standard offer from the Tax Administration, which can be used on request. Does the Secretary of State consider an annual declaration instead of a quarterly declaration to be within the systems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u41	No, that's very consciously not an option we'd like to go to. I've seen a rather extensive memo about that before, which I don't have available right now. That leads to all kinds of implementation problems that we don't want to have. If you do that for one group, then the next question is: for whom more and what can that mean? In this method we work with a quarterly declaration. In addition, there is a bit of coulance, seven days at the first time, because we understand that it is difficult. Then we give even more space through the supplement declaration. If the first one didn't go quite well, you can correct that with the second one. My feeling and our feeling is that this is doable. I have already indicated in the legislative consultation that those VAT vouchers are probably already in the possession of farmers for all kinds of other reasons. We know that from previous examples. So this has got to be really doable. We also expect that this will be sufficient for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mrs De Vries said that farmers who will benefit from the agricultural exemption are on average under 0.6%. But it also indicated that the horse sector could fall to 15%. She asked: is the Secretary of State prepared to talk to the horse industry to see what the consequences are in practice and to report to the Chamber on them? I'm not totally on my own about that. In fact, the Minister of LNV is responsible for the consultation with the horse sector. I have already asked once, but after today I will ask the Minister of LNV once again to enter into talks. I will say that it would be nice if the Chamber were to be informed of the results. Then ask for a whole different set, which came up as a result of the energy tax. Among others, Mr Van Raan and Mr Nijboer asked about this. Can't polluting companies get a little more beat up and citizens a little less? Both gentlemen expect the energy tax set-up to look different in many countries. On this issue one should not only look at the pricing of energy taxes. This issue must be seen in the wider context of the climate and energy policy of this cabinet. The cabinet takes many measures in the areas of taxation and the environment. Think of the CO-minimum price, the increase in energy prices through the energy tax - there are also people in the Netherlands who are not very happy about this and about the waste tax. We believe that a lot is already happening on the fiscal side. Moreover, the Cabinet also takes many non-fiscal measures, such as the introduction of a mileage tax for freight traffic, the Maut, and the obligation and subsidies under the SDE+ scheme. It is quite logical that fiscal policy is part of the climate policy of this cabinet, but it is certainly not the only element. In its opinion on the coalition agreement, the Council of State also recommended a clearer picture of where and how the costs of climate policy are going down towards 2030. I have already said that I would like to consider how I can respond to this opinion. I will, of course, do so together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. He's got the lead in this. But since I really have something to do with this myself, I'll do it with him. After all, climate costs are financed by the revenues from the storage of renewable energy. So it makes sense that it is also included. About the report by the PBL, which also mentioned a number of elements yesterday, and about how energy taxes are going to fall, your Chamber asked for a letter from the cabinet yesterday. On these points and that letter, I would like to come back to the discussion of the Energy Exploratory 2017, which includes not only those measures in taxation but all the measures in this area. Actually, it makes more sense to talk about it a little longer on that occasion. What about the build-up of the energy costs? Mrs Leijten asked whether it was true that they would not be in the purchasing power plate of the CPB. Because if that were the case, Mrs Leijten said, it could be put in the trash. And exactly how much are the energy charges rising? The answer is that Mrs Leijten was not quite right, because the measures in the energy tax are certainly involved in purchasing power. All indirect taxes, such as VAT increases, increases in excise duties and higher energy taxes, are all reflected in purchasing power through the inflation effect. I have indicated that the energy tax of an average household will increase by 35% in the next cabinet period. On the other hand, it is part of the overall income effect of the Ib package. The effect of the reduction of taxes and the increase of the labour rebate and the general tax rebate is such that, on balance, all the groups in any case, I am not allowed to say that everyone is going to make any progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u44	I understand that the Secretary of State says he cannot answer a lot of questions here because they need to be considered in conjunction with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I understand that; but can he confirm that the principle that taxes can govern behaviour and emissions of CO is indeed a truth and that taxes in that sense are also an instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u45	I can do that here. I even intended to consider this in more detail in the other block, because of course this is not part of the Tax Plan as such. It is a remark in the coalition agreement. So I would like to dwell a little longer on the fiscal greening, but I will do so in the fourth block of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u46	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs Leijten, I would like to suggest that the Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u49	A question has been asked three times about this energy note, both in the legislative consultation and in the General Financial Reviews. There is now an answer that I am very pleased with. I have one specific question. This 35% increase is based on an average household. But what does that house look like? What label does that have, for example? Is it based on a double-glazed rental house, or a buying house with all solar panels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u50	I wanted to come back to that in a moment, because we were also asked whether it has solar panels or not and what that means. With your permission, I'll do two short cubes, and if the question persists, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u51	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Mulder asked whether I could indicate whether the Paris agreements had already been taken into account in the increase in energy costs of €138 - that is to say 35% - and, if not, if I could give an estimate of how much the additional increase would still be. I think it is no surprise to say that the increase in energy costs as a result of the Paris agreements has not yet been taken into account. There must first be measures for this, otherwise you will not be able to apply them. In total, as a result of the Paris agreements in 2020, EUR 103 million and EUR 368 million in 2021 are still to be raised with the storage of renewable energy. However, it is not yet known how this increase is reflected in the rates of storage of renewable energy. I can make all kinds of calculations on that right now, but we really don't know that yet. So we didn't try to make some kind of construction calculation either, because for that you really need to know much more about what kind of measures these are and how they are going down. And so we didn't estimate the size of the increase in energy costs. Mr Mulder but also Mr Nijboer asked whether the increase was based on an average household. But an average household is a household with, a household without or a household willing to install solar panels. The answer is hopefully helpful, namely that the increase in energy taxation, as I outlined in the amounts I mentioned, has been calculated on the basis of the average energy consumption of all households. That is what Mrs Leijten's question was about. How do we do that? Is there a specific house targeted, a corner house or no corner house, label B or label A? No, they just looked at what the average consumption of these households is now. Then you'll probably end up at some kind of average house. What that looks like and what label it has, I don't know. It's just a sum: what is total consumption and how many households are there? That's the average you get. This has also appeared in the 2017 National Energy Exploratory. For the calculators among us: the electricity consumption of that average household was 2.768 kWh in 2017 according to this National Energy Explorer. In 2021, according to the NEV, this decreased to 2,488 kWh. So I didn't start from households with solar panels. I've really been based on average consumption households. You can say something about that. Average consumption is closer to the consumption of houses without solar panels than that of houses with solar panels, because there are many more houses without solar panels than houses with solar panels. But suppose now that the average consumption of households without solar panels would be assumed. Then the consumption figures fall less sharply. Consumption then goes from 2,988 kWh in 2017 to 2,832 kWh in 2021, according to these figures. The increase in this variant is therefore not 35% but 38%. This includes an amount of not €138 but €160. So that seems to be relatively close to the averages I mentioned. But if you look purely in numbers how many people have a solar panel and how many people don't, that intuitively is also a logical outcome. By the way, there are many more things that influence this than just solar panels. In this way you can also think that household energy consumption is influenced by energy-efficient devices. The effect of an old refrigerator or a new refrigerator, LED lighting or ordinary lighting is not to be underestimated. Then there is also the degree of insulation of the house. So it's not the only thing. But we have tried to look at the effects of solar panels here, because they were specifically asked for them. That's not entirely accurate. We don't know. But we can look at the average usage and pretend that consumption is not decreasing because of these things. So you reach an amount of €160.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u53	Yeah, I guess I didn't ask the question right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u54	Again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u55	Well, I got an answer to a question about average consumption, coupled with the costs. But I think it's true in practice that if I have solar panels, I can return energy myself to the grid. I'll get my money back for that. This means that the average bill of someone with a solar panel is not that average of €500, but that they may only pay €200. This means at the same time that the one without a solar panel may pay €700, €800 or €900, which means that on average we reach that €500 again. Thus, the question was not what it does with average consumption, but what it does with the average household bill split into households with and without solar panels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u56	I tried to explain. I do answer the question you are asking. The point is that you assume an average. There are people who have a solar panel or have taken other measures, but there are also a lot of people who do not. If I assume in my calculation that these people are doing nothing and that the consumption is not reduced by solar panels, then I come to the average amount I mentioned, namely €160, and an increase of 38%. These are people who simply do not respond to all the measures envisaged. I don't think that's gonna happen, but that was the question you asked. Why is that difference so small compared to the difference in the average? That's because many more households in the Netherlands don't have a panel. So the effect of those bups people who don't have it is much wider than that of those few people who do. It may be that someone who has a solar panel does indeed pay €200 less, but that never leads to a €200 higher tax for those who do not, because they are with much more. You know what I mean? That's just the denominator effect. It's a lot of people. I don't think I can explain it any clearer than I was just trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u57	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u58	So it sounds very clear, but the figures that were just mentioned were based on the average consumption in that house. Again, I didn't ask. I did not ask about the average consumption, but about the account in euros that a family receives. Then it is very different from what you are saying, because once again, those people are giving back power and are getting a refund for that. There are families in the Netherlands who, very neatly, have an energy bill of zero. But that means the neighbor pays double, or we won't get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u59	That's exactly what I was trying to explain. If there were as many neighbors as people with solar panels, you'd have a point. But my point is that there are many more neighbors without solar panels. So that effect on the average is much greater. So it's not one-on-one: what I don't pay, you pay more. We are with a very large group, so anything you pay less, we have to divide into the lake for the average with a very large group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u61	That was the point about the energy increase. In doing so, the cabinet of course continues to assume that people will indeed respond to incentives. In fact, Mr Mulder's example was the best one. Not everyone can meet it just as easily.That's also true.But we really think it's worth using energy-efficient lamps, saving energy through better and more economical appliances, housing insulation and solar panels. It all helps to live up to the climate ambition. That is what we want. There was also a question about tobacco duty. Mrs Leijten asked if I am prepared to put the proceeds of the increase in tobacco duty into an addiction fund. Then I can design that together with VWS. I was almost tempted to say from an earlier insight in my life about too many funds on a rich budget that it might not be necessary, but let me not call that now. The important thing is that we all want the same thing: that there is less smoking. That's why we like the tobacco taxes going up. It really is a preventive measure from the coalition agreement. This revenue is used in a general sense. Moreover, the government has already made available 20 million in health-promoting prevention measures in this area. Anyway, I will absolutely inform the Secretary of State of VWS of your input, including the suggestion to discourage smoking in a different way, such as the modification of packaging mentioned by you, the number of outlets, age limits and other matters. So I will pass that on to my colleague from VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u62	Will the Chamber be informed about this? By letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u63	I can ask if that can be taken into account. I come to a question about the property manager's liability. I haven't written down who asked me to. I don't have it right now, but I've been asked about it. I would like to begin by addressing the problem of combating this measure. I won't do that for too long. But the point is that the Tax Administration sees that in case of execution sales within or outside the bankruptcy situations no sales tax is paid. Oh, I think it was Mrs De Vries who asked about it. Yeah, it's coming back. The Tax Administration is now left behind with a VAT debt. That's the story I wanted to try to explain to you one more time. I do not know if it will help, because we have already tried that in the legislative consultation. But let's assume the following. The entrepreneur has a credit with the bank. The bank has a pledge as collateral on all assets of the entrepreneur. When the entrepreneur can no longer meet his payment obligations, the bank has the right to win out the pledge right. The bank then uses the proceeds, including VAT, to pay off the entrepreneur's debt to the bank. The bank is entitled to do the same because, according to a judgment of the Supreme Court, the amount of turnover tax for those who love it is also included in the interest-rate payment for the mortgage holder. However, the company remains subject to taxation. The trader must therefore declare and pay the VAT on the sale. Since the entrepreneur is in financial difficulties at the time, that is not the case. The Tax Administration is left with an irrecoverable VAT claim. On the other hand, the bank may keep the amount of turnover tax in full. We think that this situation is undesirable. The sales tax just has to be paid. It should not be left with the owner of the property, but should be sent to the State, for that is where the tax has been collected. Our measure provides that, if the trader does not comply with VAT, the Tax Office can now hold the property or mortgage holder liable for the amount of VAT, unless the property holder proves that this can happen.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Well, then it's not. But once the VAT has been paid to the property owner, the Tax Administration can claim it. Mrs Leijten asked about the execution. We have added a number of notes of amendment to the Tax Plan. Can the tax authorities handle these changes? In fact, the essence of the answer is that the six measures we have mentioned were first assessed by means of implementation tests, as it should be. Importantly, it is not only a sec to see if all these execution keys give an okay flag. It also looks at the accumulation, the coincidence and the interdependencies. Because sometimes something seems pretty easy to do, but because it can act directly on another measure, the coherence between them is also being assessed. The review of these six measures shows that the Tax Administration considers these proposals to be feasible. Those were the answers from my first folder, about the measures in the Tax Plan. The second block is a very short block, which concerns the holding cooperatives and the dividend tax. That is not the general discussion on dividend taxation, I say before I engage in entrapment. I see someone responding, but I didn't mean to. In fact... Okay, well, I'm not going into that any further. The question that was still open was Mrs Leijten's: why are we doing all this? I have tried twice before to explain what we are doing, but I try to explain it briefly once more. This is just the way it is. Now nvs and e.g. deductions are subject to the dividend tax. Cooperatives aren't, and that's where the problem started. This is in the event that the cooperative is not used for its original purpose in an international holding structure. Holding cooperatives are therefore obliged to deduct the dividend tax in this legislative proposal. Profit distributions by the holding cooperatives must be subject to a dividend tax, unless it is a 5% interest or less. Why did we do that? Because the real cooperative business had to be spared. The way in which we have wanted to complete this has been well discussed with the National Cooperative Council. In this way, the cabinet is focusing on a more equal treatment of holding cooperatives and e.g. debt securities or debt securities. That's what it all started with. In view of the communication from the European Commission in 2016, this also had to be done quickly and proactively by the cabinet, because we have known this for a while. In this way, we are actually trying to avoid the risk of prohibited state aid. I also explained in the legislative consultation why this is so important. We are at risk of recovery. That is one of the toughest elements, which can lead to unpleasant situations. That's what we're trying to prevent. That's what this whole thing started with. You want an arrangement to prevent anything. You want to protect the real cooperative business. Mrs De Vries asked: do you take care that there will be no overkill for the cooperatives? We were pleased that Mrs De Vries took on board the commitment I made on this point in the second legislative consultation. After I have been able to report to your Chamber on the findings of these motions in the letter of commitment on Princess Day 2018, we will be able to discuss them in detail, I presume. There is an explanation for this, but I would repeat it. Mrs Leijten asked about the negative consequences of this new opportunity. Doesn't it create new opportunities for advisors to fizzle with? I think that Mrs Leijten was mainly referring to the exemption from content to third countries for capital companies. We take them on the basis of our own principle of legal equality. GroenLinks wrote something about this in an amendment. I don't know if that's actually been filed. If that's the case, I'll come back to that in second term. Ultimately, the extension of the scope of the exemption goes hand in hand with the tightening up of the anti-abuse clause. That's just part of it. Without that, I might have been concerned, but precisely because we now explicitly mention those anti-abuse provisions in what we are doing, we have already talked about this before. We are less concerned about this than Mrs Leijten or Mr Snels. So I will not mention any more why we are taking this with us in the end. This has to do with a different favourable treatment of companies with limited liability. This leads to a breach of the principle of equality. Really, the principle of equality is also important, perhaps not enforced but on our own, because it can bring with it state risks. We really want to avoid problems in the recovery procedures. We were just talking about that. That was the last question about the holding cooperatives that were open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u64	How many outstanding questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u65	Not so much. Let me put it this way: the thickest suit has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u66	Then I suggest we finish this. Mrs Leijten, you will have the opportunity to interrupt. You will really have the opportunity to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u67	Now I'm going to the gift and inheritance tax for the real lovers, so to speak. We have talked about this for a lot of hours now. The essence of this is of course: what about the distribution of the gift and inheritance tax when marriage is no longer the classical marriage, but things happen in the matrimonial property community? It's changing. Times are changing. What the hell does that mean? I do not want to repeat everything we said earlier on this point during the discussion of the OFM legislative proposal in our legislative consultation. What I keep trying to emphasise is that the main purpose of the bill is that we are trying to create clarity for both the people who are asking for it and the practice that helps people in it. There were statements from the Supreme Court from 1959 and 1971. Society is really different now. The people who are working on this and also the umbrella organisations say: please, legislator, please, tell us what you want with this, because there is legal uncertainty. Is there or isn't there no gift tax? That is just uncomfortable, especially given the fact that it used to be, but now it is more and more common. The ambiguity is one side of the story. The other side of the story that I would like to mention for the last time is that there are a lot of good intentions, but also possibilities for tax constructions with prenup. In doing so, the wealth is deliberately divided into unequal parts by the wealthy individuals. That's really not the point. Those really aren't surprises, but those are people who are very smart and purposeful constructions to do that. I have set an example in the general part of the explanatory statement. You could see that. Under current law, it is still really unclear whether such unequal distribution can be successfully combated by the Tax Administration. Therefore, I really want to address the ambiguity and tax structures of wealthy individuals, firstly because the essence of the proposal is that marriage does not in itself lead to a donation. It's just laid down in the law now. Secondly, I do so because there is no donation when people keep within that 50% regime. Above this 50% regime, there is in principle donation, but this is due to constructions and uneven power distribution. In order to avoid improper use of the 50% limit, the determination of fake marriage has been proposed, as you know. I expect it to only be applied in incidental cases. From the notary I always get positive reactions to our proposals, again last week. So that's the general coat rack. Some specific questions were also raised. Mr Omtzig called for attention to be paid to the couple, one of whom had an inheritance with an exclusion clause, and the other an inheritance without an exclusion clause. Mr Omtzigt wanted these partners to be able to choose to keep the donations and inheritances private without an exclusion clause. In last Thursday's letter, if I am correct, I took this up. We had found that it was actually quite simple. The essence of the answer was that if you want to avoid that in those situations, you just have to let that other partner retain private power to the same extent. Then you could say that it is different in principle, but it is really very simple to allow the other to exempt such a part. You can just take care of that. Then there is no or much less gift tax due. I have really wondered whether this is an improvement, but with the best will in the world, we could not really see that partners if they want to keep their gifts or inheritances private by mistake run into some kind of fantasy of the gift tax. That is not a signal that we have received from practice either. Moreover, the choice of keeping gifts and inheritances private without an exclusion clause raises objections. First of all, of course, we have implementation problems. It is not for nothing that we indicated in the letter that it is quite difficult to keep records of donations for a very long period of time. Suppose, for example, something was donated 30 years ago. Does everyone remember that? Is there another receipt? Then someone can say: I was still studying, I don't have that anymore. Then you may be asked: do you know exactly which part of that property is still yours? That kind of thing is actually impossible for the Tax Administration, even though it can all be true, to control. As a result, the sensitivity of this type of claim is greatly increased. A second reason why we prefer not to do so is that it is possible to choose which donations are or are not kept private. This gives even more possibilities than there may already be to crooked distributions, without giving tax, unwanted tax planning and the overview of death, which were in an earlier set. Yeah, that's the kind of thing we don't want. The proposed bill is logical and consistent and we feel that it is really good to explain to the practice and to the people who are confronted with it. Then Mrs De Vries' question was: okay, maybe we agree, but can we monitor what happened over the next few years? In my letter from last week, I said that we are going to keep an eye on that. The Tax Administration can also identify bottlenecks and other signals from the implementation practice. In other words, yes, I am prepared to monitor the scheme in the coming years. I think that's even very sensible. I have also expressed the willingness that my employees are already proactively consulting with industry organisations such as the Koninklijke Notarial Professional Organisation, the KNB. We are going to sit down with each other as soon as we feel that we are not doing what we were trying to do here. Another element on this point is the third-party attachment, a simplification. It is good to discuss this, because questions have been asked about what the measure does and what it does not do. What the measure does do is, in all cases, make it possible, without the intervention of a tax bailiff, to confiscate a claim, i.e. a third party attachment. The bailiff's expert is then replaced by a decision of the recipient. This simplified procedure is now only possible in specific cases, such as the wage attachment. The aim of the measure was, of course, to simplify the process and, not least, to achieve cost savings for the debtor. Yesterday, the consultation said: yes, but the cost savings of €88 may be higher than the cost of €70 or €100 in the bank deposit. The answer to that is: they come in both cases. These costs are not in one case and not in the other. So it's really about this €88 advantage in third party attachment. You do anyway. It is not the case that then suddenly €70 or €100 in bank charges are added. In the other case, you already had one. So we really think it is a simplification for the debtor that leads to a serious cost reduction. And yes, of course it is also easier for the Tax Administration, but certainly not just for the Tax Administration. It is not the case that we are doing something different in terms of the scope of the herd, but only in terms of cost savings and simplification. That's kind of the general part. There were a few specific questions. Mr Van Weyenberg asked the Secretary of State to clarify the consistency between the various measures in the field of duty-free. I've been wondering if I'd do that or not. You know what, I'm just doing it because it might help with those specific questions after all. I shall be very brief and not mention a few things. There has indeed been some confusion over the different legislative pathways and the dates of implementation, some we do and some others do. What are we dealing with here? We have here a Law Simplifying batter-free footage, the law of the Minister of SZW "SZW" which is expected to enter into force in 2018. This law makes it possible to use the available data as a basis for the attachment-free basis. This premium-free rate should be applied in the case of a wage or benefit attachment and in the case of special collection measures. The introduction of the law is a prerequisite for the proactive application of the batter-free foot in the case of a bank attachment. That's what this is all about. The IRS can do it afterwards, but not in advance. We can take it into account quite reasonably afterwards, but it would be nice if we could do so in advance. We cannot do that on our own, and that requires this law. It makes the calculation easier if we know that in advance, because the details of the debtor are no longer necessary. Therefore, this law does not regulate a legally free base for bank deposits; it only goes from ex-post to ex-ante. More than this law is needed in order to be able to apply the batter-free foot proactively. The legislative programme for simplification of civil justice is also needed for this purpose. This is now a follow-up step in preparation and falls under the responsibility of the Minister of JenV. Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels asked for this. The legislative programme includes a legally free base for bank deposits. It is the legislative proposal that does this, but the programme is still in a research phase. The Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs is still working on a request for pre-advisation. The introduction of this law may well take some time, because it must ultimately be a simple, broad-based and enforceable regime for all parties, and that takes time. The disadvantage of linking it to this law is that some things, which we believe are already good, are being delayed. Thirdly, we have my own inquiry into whether it is possible for the Tax Administration and the local authorities, because they were also asked to do so, not to do anything about the unwound foot. Could they not apply these policies in advance of the real legislative programme? We want to investigate this seriously and I have promised to inform you more about it in 2018. Finally, we have the legislative proposal before us, which is well known. We're trying to make it easier for everyone without sacrificing rights. Mr Omtzigt asked me if I could promise that respect for this unwound foot will be settled before 1 January 2019 and I will report to the Chamber by letter. That's very difficult. I cannot promise that this free-of-wound foot will be applied on 1 January, without any prior request. Let's hope everything goes fast, but I can't give you a commitment on that. I can, however, promise that the Tax Administration will be able to correct all or part of a bank charge upon request. I can also promise that in 2018 I will have examined whether it is possible for the Tax Administration and for local authorities to apply this pre-emptive base to bank deposits without request and in what way. I think that is the wish of the Chamber. Once again, on this point, I will inform you by letter in the course of the coming year. As regards the simplified third-party attachment, Mr Omtzigt asked whether the Secretary of State could address the costs of the third-party attachment outlined by the National Ombudsman. The supervisory statement stated that the simplified third party attachment is free of charge for the citizen. That was indeed incomplete. The National Ombudsman rightly states in his letter that the bank can also charge these costs. The bank can do this on the basis of an agreement between the bank and itself. Again, the scheme as such doesn't change with or without what we're changing now, but with what we're changing, the cost of the third party attachment will be reduced by €88. I come to the questions about the suspensive effect and the fiscal resistance. That is also a technical subject, but I will deal with it because there were questions about it. If a taxable person does not agree with an enforcement order for, for example, an attachment or an enforceable sale, he may oppose it in court. It always is. In the course of the appeal procedure, the enforcement proceedings can then be automatically suspended. In practice, the Tax Administration is opposed to the possibility of opposition being applied as a way of delaying enforcement. Unfortunately, there are a few very justified cases, but in a vast majority people use it to slow down the process. In fact, the Tax Administration can only proceed with recovery after the court has denied the suspensive effect of the tax opposition or after it has ruled against the opposition. It is now proposed that the automatic suspensive effect that existed should be abolished. The main objective is to combat misuse by means of the proposed measure. In many cases, an automatic suspensive effect leads to delay without a good reason. For example, the figures taught us that resistance over the last 12 years was justified only in fourteen cases. That's 2% of the total. In addition to combating improper use, a measure also leads to savings in the implementation costs of the Tax Administration. It is more important to mention that general administrative law and civil law do not have an automatic suspensive effect. In some ways, therefore, tax law is only linked to this. I also think there's some inconvenience about legal protection. What about if you apply this? Are not the evil-doers unjustly taken away from them? I understand where these concerns come from, but I believe that legal protection remains sufficiently guaranteed by the debtor's ability to go to court and ask for suspensive effect. He can do it in a resistance procedure or even separately. He also has plenty of time for this, because there are at least four weeks between the batter of a sale and the moment he knows it. So he's not really getting mugged. In my view, it is also an important element that the Tax Administration can automatically suspend enforcement if the opposition is justified. At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I have promised that I will submit the criteria which the Tax Administration is examining in this respect to the policy of the Tax Administration. As I promised in the second legislative consultation, the Tax Administration will be reluctant to resist. In the policy we mention that the recovery guidance board is determined on the basis of which criteria are precisely reviewed. The starting point will be that the Tax Administration cancels the enforcement sale in the event of a request, unless the grounds of the opposition are clearly unopposed. Then the interests of the State will be harmed if the sale is cancelled. So that is really a policy adjustment. An automatic suspensive effect is said to go too far, because it is too often abused. However, in cases where we believe that a reasonable request has been made, the policy line of the Tax Administration is now that we are going to look at it, unless, in advance, it is quite clear that the tax resistance is pointless. Then we'll go through with it. Those elements really make it a policy change for how we look at this. So we do not do it automatically, but we do understand that a lot of people are right to start this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u68	Can you take us with you in the progress of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u69	These are three, four more questions, and then we'll go to the locational climate. Unless there's a lot of interruptions, I expect to be ready in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u70	I'm gonna head back to the bank account. I am concerned that it will be postponed for a year, but that I still do not fully understand how certain we are that the unwound foot will not only be politically respected, but will also be automatically respected if that bank deposit continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u71	I have already indicated in an earlier consultation that I cannot give any guarantees. It is legislation that does not lie with me. It is legislation that should even be done by two ministers. That's a bit clumsy argument in process terms, but it often complicates things, as you know. We think it is important that the Tax Administration does not just wait until these laws have been fully implemented. We are proposing that we look at it more quickly. In hindsight, we're going to look at those possibilities. We're gonna see if we can't speed it up by putting it forward. Of this, I say that we will explain this in a letter next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u72	Look, I'd like this simplified bank deposit to only take place when we're sure that the Tax Office will check in advance to ensure that the bounty-free foot is guaranteed. I'd like to link those two things. I can do that by amendment; I have it ready. But perhaps the Secretary of State can say here that he will come forward in October with the statement that it is possible or not, and then submit it to the Chamber or the relevant article of law will enter into force at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u73	As I look at it now, I don't think I would like the latter, if only because it's what we're doing in other people's policy areas. If Mr Omtzigt has a good amendment to it, we will, of course, be willing to look at it. We'll say that we think it might or might not work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u75	Then the return scheme...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr Van Weyenberg on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u77	At the same time, Mr. Chairman. Moreover, I welcome the commitment and its further elaboration from the previous legislative consultation. Thank you for that. In my view, Mr Omtzigt does not mean to intervene in the current legislative proposals. In my opinion, he wants to prevent this from coming into force, while for whatever reason things go wrong with those other laws, which does not take place in full what this Secretary of State is trying to do. In my view, we want to avoid saying yes now to something which is going to be different from what was intended, because, for example, those other laws are being delayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u78	I get that. It is also the reason why I said: if an amendment comes in for it, we will look at it for that reason. I really think it is our proposal to start now and not link it to a law. What if that takes a long time, for whatever reason? Then there is something good to do already, namely reduce costs and make it easier for everyone. Once again, we will be willing to look at the amendment when it is tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then there's the repentance scheme. Mr Azarkan spoke of a very nice point of principle, but he asked whether the Netherlands would not cost a lot of money. The answer is actually very brief: no, there is no budgetary effect for that. Mr Omtzigt said that he wanted to limit the abolition of the return regime to foreign black savers. I also have to say that I have already indicated in the legislative consultation that the Tax Administration is facing many more types of fraudsters than just black savers. We have seen a number of examples around the cash register that do not tick all kinds of things. We've heard of people who don't have a house, but we've heard of paying off mortgage interest. Et cetera, et cetera. I just don't want to reward these types of frauds by allowing unpunished repentance. That is a really wrong signal to the taxpayers who do want to comply with the rules and who comply with all tax obligations in a timely and correct manner. As far as I am concerned, only the measure of punishment is expressed in the moment of repentance. The fundamental point is that serious matters must not go unpunished. At the same time, I would say to Mrs De Vries that this will never affect well-intentioned taxpayers. I've promised that before. The good guys won't be hurt by the bad guys here. Let me ask you a question about the catalogue price. It will often be higher than what people really pay for a car; does that now have consequences for the addition? From Mr Omtzigt's question, in particular, I would like to point out that he suspects that in many cases leasing cars have different prices than what should be officially added to them. At the same time, I say that for the real bpm and the addition there is only one official price, and that is the official catalogue price. It is relevant for both the bpm and the addition. For tax purposes, the catalogue price is the recommended selling price. Why are we taking it? That price shall simply be made known by the manufacturer and the official importer. This is therefore explicitly not about the selling price that may have been paid in the end. I see a little bit of how it works, too. There are then receipts from car dealers and it is said that this was the final price. Depending on how well you've done the negotiations, or how far the car dealer is willing to adjust this price, you're going to determine the bpm add-on. We find that undesirable. Furthermore, the proposal does not lead to an adjustment in the budgetary consequences, because we always took account of the official catalogue price. A final question in this block was also from Mr Omtzigt. It concerned the application of the tax rebate to foreign taxable persons. He asked whether the proposed measure was not contrary to the non-discrimination clause in the tax treaties with Germany and Belgium. It was working for me again this morning to understand all this exactly. The essence of the answer is that there is no conflict with these provisions. The non-discrimination clause in the tax treaty with Germany did not take into account Mr Omtzigt's situation. It is not included in it and it does not apply to it. On the contrary, the non-discrimination clause in the tax treaty with Belgium had a very broad effect. By adopting the policy decision, Belgian border workers will be able to receive the tax reduction in the first year by means of a provisional tax. That is where it is explicitly regulated. This is not covered by the Treaty with Germany. The non-discrimination clause does not apply to this measure and is therefore not infringed. I need my last folder, Madam Speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u81	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u82	This is about all the measures that are not contained in this Tax Plan, either in the OFM or in other legislative proposals, but which have come back again and again in the discussion about, above all, the coalition agreement. I will try not to deal with a number of elements and a number of elements in detail; I hope that no one is offended by them. In general, there were questions about the Innovation Box and about reversing the measures for the locational climate; are they all necessary? I said that I would come up with a letter on the fiscal policy agenda at the beginning of next year. In that letter, I will focus on the tax environment and, above all, on the attention we want to pay to tax avoidance and tax evasion. Since the Tax Plan contains the first two measures which are a little related to the tax location climate, I think it would be a good idea to mention that. Mrs Leijten also asked a number of questions about this. One of the priorities of the government agreement is that we want to maintain a competitive location environment. By the way, the location climate as it is today is not going to go wrong. This has to do not only with taxation, but with a lot of other structures. We have often said it: education, infrastructure, cultural facilities, geographical location, political stability and also taxation. According to some lists, taxation does not reach number 7, but a number of other countries consider it more important. If you look at the overall list of competitiveness, you will see that we are doing reasonably well on the list of the World Economic Forum. The NFIA also indicates that the location climate is quite good in itself, but at the same time we can't relax and stay where we are, but we have to go further. They are sliding panels. The international context is simply solid. We have also discussed Brexit in previous discussions and amendments to legislation in other countries that can affect the way we do it. In the end, we are simply concerned with one thing: making jobs attractive in the Netherlands. To this end, I am sure that we will be able to discuss this in a legislative proposal which does deal with the taxation of dividends, for example. But I really didn't think it was right to do it all again here. I did mention all the arguments we mentioned earlier in the previous consultation, during the Financial Reviews. That does not mean that all these questions are irrelevant, but it might be more convenient to deal with them when we present the legislative proposal on this issue. However, it is good to say something about the Vpb tariff reduction, because we are announcing it already and we will start with that step as well. We think it's important. All kinds of reports have also been brought out that reflect their effectiveness. But it is certainly not so that you can say right away that it is just gifts that are being distributed, because the business community is also really facing considerable burdens. That too has been mentioned before. One example of this is environmental taxes, which are being increased. Many basic measures are also applied in the Vpb. More than ever; it is a list of 7 to 8 measures. I will not mention them all, but the Innovation Box is of course one of them. Moreover, the cabinet also does a great deal in terms of treating debt and equity more equally. This leads to a shock resistance improvement of our economy. The most important example of this is, I think, the Earnings Stripping measure we are taking. A minimum capital rule for banks and insurers is also provided. Those are a few parts I'd like to bring forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mrs Leijten, I should like to finish, and then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u84	I guess I'll have a bunch of sets around the source... Well, maybe one. I'm just gonna get it out of my head. The suggestion was made: if we abolish the dividend tax by 2020, why not introduce withholding tax on dividend flows to the low-tax jurisdictions? The answer is that we do. We will do that in the same year, namely in 2020. And we're gonna do a lot of work with both of us to prepare things. So it's not like we'd move the withholding of dividend flows backwards. I'm skipping things now. Then there's a set about rulings. It's okay, I think, if we put this here. It is always a bit dangerous to place rulings under the heading "Climate of establishment', because then, of course, a number of individual rulings are looked at and what was good and not good about them. Mr Azarkan asked about the procedures. Are there investigations, aren't we exchanging things that we should exchange? I do not want to have a very long debate about ruling practice and what we will and will not do about international tax avoidance. We're not doing that right now, but we're really gonna do that. However, I think it is important to say once again that the Netherlands is exchanging all existing rulings that are in the context of OECD and EU. We have no reason not to. We were in favour of it. There are already three studies that we have in hand in this area. One is already an older one, namely that the General Court will conduct a general review of APA/ATR practice in 2019. Furthermore, in the report in the coming spring, an independent committee of inquiry into the ruling practice will conduct an investigation. I have also recently announced an investigation into formal errors in issuing the 4,000 rulings with a cross-border effect or an international nature. I also said: let's do it first. Then we can get people involved. We checked to see if we couldn't involve the audit service. But I'm going to work that all out nicely and that letter really comes in January, I promised at the time. Then we're gonna talk about it extensively. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman? Yeah? I'm just gonna switch to the Wbso. I had promised Mr Snels to come back to that, but Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Dijkgraaf had also asked about the distribution between small and large enterprises. The answer is that SMEs received 44.7% of the total Wbso budget in 2016 and 64% of all SMEs. Before the integration of the RDA and the Wbso, that was 64.2%. So that has remained virtually the same. That share is high, by the way. This is because SMEs are responsible for 41% of R&D activities carried out in the Netherlands. The S&D reduction will be evaluated next year. We also await the figures. In fact, I assume that this new evaluation will also address Mr Van Weyenberg's questions. Moreover, I agree with him and Mr Dijkgraaf, and I would like to say straight away that any adjustment will have to take place in length or in width. Anyway, maybe the evaluation shows other things. We are not going to anticipate that now, but it will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u85	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u86	With this cube, yes. After this I have the block of fiscal greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mrs. Leijten looks very angry. Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u88	Yes, Mr President, I would also like to make a comment to you. I understand very well that the Chamber agenda looks terrible, but it is because four parties had to negotiate with each other and we had to stop the budgetary treatment. Then it was said that we would have all the room for the treatments. It is fine if we have less interruptions now, but if we cannot place them when it comes to it, the debate will be smashed. Then we might as well make our contribution in writing and get a written reply. Then we'll take it off like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u89	That is not entirely true, Mrs Leijten. I said at the beginning that the Secretary of State would be given the opportunity to answer the questions, because we will be dealing with 100 questions on this part alone. The Secretary of State sat here yesterday from 15.45 a.m. to about 4.45 in the morning, and it's also important that your questions be answered. It's up to me to give him space for that. Now you can just ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u90	For the fact that it was so late last night, we should mainly send a flower to the coalition parties. They didn't have to coat the Hills through the Chamber this way. I have a question about the dividend tax and the investment climate, which comes out by abolishing the dividend tax to the Secretary of State. What struck me is that less than two years ago your predecessor wrote a letter to the First Chamber stating that the shift in tax revenue from the Netherlands to other countries has no incentive effect on investment in the Netherlands. Can this government, this Secretary of State, investigate when the light has come out that this is so important for the investment climate in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u91	Without repeating the debate on dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u92	The answer is, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u93	Could you then pass this question on to the Prime Minister so that he can answer the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u94	We can pass on any questions your Chamber may ask, I presume. I don't think he'll be surprised by your question, but we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u95	Two years ago, in the discussion on abolishing the dividend tax, the government took the position that this does not contribute to investment in the Netherlands, but now that is the main argument. Well, then it wouldn't be crazy to ask that question, would it? I hope that we will get an answer before we have the hearing on the abolition of dividend taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u96	I have another short question, which I asked yesterday. I had already made a calculation myself, but can the Secretary of State calculate on the basis of the dividend discount method what that 1.4 billion will cost us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u97	No, I can't. This also applies to what I said at the beginning: I'm sure we're going to talk a lot about all the effects of the dividend tax when we come up with a bill on this subject. That's not now. You have another hearing. I can imagine that this kind of question will also be put to outsiders during the hearing. In any case, I do not have an answer to your question at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u98	Yeah, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u99	Well, it's really easy to determine. It is a kind of calculation of the net present value of future revenues, in this case losses. If you turn that off at a rate of interest, let's take the AEX of 3.2%, you'll get around 40 billion. We talk about 1.4 billion all the time, but it's about future revenues that can reach 40 billion and maybe 50 billion. I think it's a good thing that that's being calculated. Then we know what we're talking about. I'm still asking you to make that calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u100	I won't, I'll just say right here. I actually had the idea that Mr Azarkan had already made his own calculation. I don't know exactly why you're still asking me about that. So we're not gonna do that. I imagine you'll let that come back to the hearing. I'm prepared to exchange views on the bill on everything and everything. Now we're not gonna make that calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Azarkan, it should not be a repeat of an earlier discussion. You can finish if you want, but you don't have to. The same applies to the Secretary of State. I think you should go to a conclusion, because it is mainly questions that were not entirely covered by the Tax Plan, but have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yes. Of course, I will come back to a number of questions, because some Members of Parliament asked for cover for an amendment, for example. I think it's good to get back to that, but we're really close. We have arrived at something I have just promised, namely fiscal greening. Yesterday Mr Van Raan addressed the issue of fiscal greening quite extensively. We have included a lot of measures in the coalition agreement. I have already tried to tell Mr Van Raan that I personally feel very interested in such measures. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to read the PBL report, but I will certainly take that with interest. This is not just about the fiscal agenda, but also about more. But I do feel challenged to contribute to the further greening objective of the cabinet in the area of taxation. It's important to make a few things clear. You asked about the flight tax. With regard to the flight tax, a three-step level has been announced. Step one is right: we will first see if we can arrange this at European level, because that works best. If we introduce a tax and then everybody goes out through a border airport, then we have not helped the environment. That's not what we want. We hope, of course, that we can convince our fellow Members. At the same time, the argument has been used too often in the past: we are doing it European. Then we said, she or anyone... It was said: and we can't, so we don't have to do it. So I'm not one of them. This coalition agreement clearly states that if we fail, we will still have steps two and three. Step two is: if it does not succeed at European level, then we will start ourselves. There are two ways we can do that. We can look at a noise charge. Or we're looking at a ticket tax, a pretty simple flight tax. Of course, we've had it before. In terms of implementation and effectiveness, it was quite good, but it no longer exists. But it's not that hard to look back in the books of a few years ago and introduce them quickly. I am quite ambitious in this area, but I think we should do it in the right order. We really need to try to say that to my people during the negotiations in Europe, because we really want to do something about it. A number of countries around us, unlike ten years ago, now have flight taxes, so they might feel good about seeing if we can harmonise them. That is our first policy commitment. It's the most effective. If we really can't do that, we're not gonna sit down and cry, but then we're just gonna go on with ourselves. Of course, we are still going to try to get some other countries to join us, but at least there will be a stick behind the door not to stop. Mr Van Raan also had a number of questions about the energy tax. Whether you call it a CO tax or a CO minimum price, it basically means that we want to achieve some kind of input tax. To this extent, we also respond to Mr Van Raan's thoughts that it is very helpful. If you charge something that's attached to your input, you're gonna use less of it. That's actually what we want. We have now said that there must be a minimum price for CO2. On how exactly we are going to shape it, we are going to discuss it with fellow Members of this House. This is what we're really sending on. We really want to have a regulatory effect on the measure we are taking. I also think that the energy tax and the minimum price for CO2 can very well support each other. Differentiation of VAT rates is also a subject that has been raised several times. I can be very brief about that. Unfortunately, it is not always the case that we have seen several times in the past.... that when you apply a VAT reduction the end user always benefits from it. We did it at the time with hairdressers and small shifts. Then we lowered the VAT, and there was only a very small effect of it in the prices for the end user. It's a method that I do understand to influence behavior. But we must also be careful that we do not think we have found the golden egg there, because often it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u103	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u104	Yes. We are not talking about all the complexities that we then see when it comes to delineating the various products. I'll leave the PBL report for what it is. Mrs Leijten also asked about tax benefits in custody, when raising a grandchild as a foster parent. Of course, we agree with her that it is right in this case to see if this IACK can do anything. This kind of question can also be addressed to the Tax Administration. The question was whether there could be a separate booth at the IRS to do that. The answer is that that's difficult. That's not how the IRS works. We can help a lot of times, and we do. If a theme comes up more often, we record it in the ready-made sets, so people know. You'll call the Tax Phone Begu if you're in trouble and then you can be helped right away. Then I'll leave my fiscal policy agenda for what it is. I have one more that I do think is important, namely the loan assistance that has been quoted by a number of people and also the cashier's round with the rent payment. Those two points and the rest we're gonna leave for a while. There aren't many of them anymore. The loan assistance. Can the Secretary of State make every effort to address the problems of loan assistance over the past three years? This covers the period 2014, 2015 and 2016. Is it feasible to do something with it? I think it is most important to say that we are naturally pleased that we have resolved the problems of loan assistance on 1 January this year, but that the previous cabinet has not solved the old cases. I understand the desire to do something about these old cases. I want to say this very clearly, because it may well be poignant. On the question of whether it is technically possible to do something, I say: yes, that is technically possible. At the same time, I do not want to create entirely false hopes among the people who have made amendments, because there is a legal basis for them. If we're gonna do this, we're gonna have to legalize it. That is technically feasible, but the other side is that there are considerable costs involved. I would like to mention the amounts of 15.3 million in additional supplementary expenditure, and that is also included in the amount of 1.8 million in implementation costs. So yes, it is technically possible, but do realize that there are costs involved. I think that's what I wanted to say about this. Then there's the rent supplement. In a debate between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Nijboer the question was raised as to what the State Secretary's opinion is on the abuse of rent payments in family situations. They called it a cashier's round. Mr Nijboer said that this is a kind of misuse. Mr Van Weyenberg said that sometimes this is rather difficult because sometimes it is not an improper use at all. Then there is a normal rent, equal to others, and it is used. At the same time, I understand that we don't want this to become some kind of model. I indicated earlier in the legislative consultation that this arrangement and its implementation are not entirely my policy responsibility, but also, specifically, the policy responsibility of BZK. We've contacted them about that in the meantime. The written parliamentary questions that have now been put to me on this subject have been transferred to him in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I am not going to anticipate that now, but the issue as such has been dealt with and designed. I assume that's coming back to the Chamber as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you. And take it from me: if a question has not been answered somewhere, Members of Parliament will certainly raise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u106	It won't be much more, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u107	Let's see. Mr Van Raan was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u108	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive examination of the answers. I have one question about that three-stage missile. The Secretary of State said we'll do it consecutively. We don't think there's time. There's no CO room for that either. And is the Secretary of State aware of the fact that you can already make European agreements? You can already agree bilaterally between countries: we are going to argue that between countries. Is the Secretary of State aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u109	Let me be honest: my active knowledge in this field is somewhat outdated. I have followed it, but probably my officials know who are preparing this. Of course, we are looking at all possible ways of achieving the desired effect as much as possible. We feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u110	You said you'd come back to the cost of Paris. You indicate that these costs will in any case be paid through the Storage Renewable Energy (ODE). Just... I didn't hear any money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u111	No, I think I answered that question because there are no measures yet. If you're going to charge this, you have to have measures, and we don't have measures. We have a total amount. I mentioned that, but I did not say how I am going to calculate it in the pictures, because we do not have these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u112	Or we could talk past each other. It could be. Let us try to find out. Two amounts have been mentioned. This year it was like 103 million and a few hundred million next year, but I don't mean that one. An agreement was reached in Paris. A number of parties in this house are very excited about that. You indicate in advance that the costs of the Paris agreements will be paid through the ODE. You already know that. If you're planning something like this, it seems to me that you at least have an idea of how much we're going to fund through the ODE. So my question is, is that 10 billion? Is that 40 billion? Is that 120 billion? How much can the Netherlands pay through the ODE to finance Paris?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you. And the longer the interruption is, the more unclear the answer is often, I add. Really. Take it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u114	I'll be very brief. I think we've been talking a little bit along the way. I thought I had really answered your question, but if that question is not answered, it might be wise for me to do my best one more time to see what that question is. I think I have said that we do not yet know how or where a lot of measures are taking place around Paris. In general, we do have an objective. I have mentioned a number of sums, which are somewhere in this set and which we know will come but which have not yet been allocated to measures. I have said that I cannot say what that is going to be, because we really need the measures first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u115	Is it an idea to go into it in more detail in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yeah, we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u117	When am I gonna get that answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u118	I now have the question. I said that, as a result of the Paris agreements, we need to raise 103 million extra by 2020 and 368 million additional by 2021 with the storage of renewable energy. So that goes through the ODE.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u119	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u120	These are all questions that do not directly relate to the Tax Plan. Some do, but not all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u121	But, Mr President, I began to say that mentioning those two amounts was not an answer to my question. And now I get those same two amounts again! Even the Secretary of State is not going to claim here that the Paris agreements were financed with the 400 million. No one's gonna believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Mulder, you said what you wanted to say. I'm going to see Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u123	But then I'd like an answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u124	Yeah, that's already been given. Are you prepared to comment on this in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yeah, I'm willing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u126	Otherwise it'll be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u127	But when will I get those written answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u128	Yes, that was indeed an earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u129	Tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u130	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u131	If we have it. If we don't have it, we don't have it. But if we have it, you'll get an answer in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u132	No, no, no, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u133	Guys, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u135	I have a question about the total tax package for SMEs and family businesses. There is a considerable structural burden on SMEs. How does the Secretary of State for Finance view this, as he has heard the proud group chairmen of the coalition say: we are going for relief?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u136	I need to see if I understand you correctly. Do you mean, what do we think of SME policy in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yeah, exactly. There is an increase of between 2.6 and 2.7 billion for SMEs and family businesses. I will not bring in the dividend tax again, but abroad will receive 1.3 billion. If you keep a story about burden relief...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u138	I do not think it would be helpful to mention again all the measures we have taken in the coalition agreement. I think we've had whole lists. One example that is incredibly obvious is the Vpb reduction, which really benefits. For example, we have many more, for example when it comes to the cost of hiring. I think it's too far now to... You know the list of measures we have for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u139	We're not going to repeat the debate on the government statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u140	No, I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u141	No, but I have one interruption and I have kept it neatly until the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u142	That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u143	Well, that has something to do with it. I'm allowed to choose my own interruptions, aren't I? When we talk about tax plans, it is important to explain this. If you add up everything, the Vpb reduction, the Innovation Box, the tariff step that is being proposed and the VAT increase, then family businesses and SMEs will get rid of it. They are faced with a structural burden increase. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u144	Once again, I have tried to confine myself today to the things that lie ahead. I'm sure we're going to talk about a lot of things with each other, for example about the locational climate. In my view, this is not exactly the time to re-examine the Financial Reviews by asking for the overall package of SME measures. Then I refer a little back to the answers we gave during the General Financial Reviews. I believe that we then identified six or seven measures which are particularly beneficial to small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u145	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u146	On balance, there's just an increase in charges of 2.6 to 2.7 billion - I could be 100 million wrong for SMEs. He's Secretary of State for Finance. He can just say yes to that, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u147	I'll never do that if I'm not sure. I don't recognize your data. Probably Mr. Nijboer is using the base path, but I don't know. I don't think this makes much sense. The figures have not changed since we discussed them in the Financial Reviews. Actually, I don't have much more to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u148	I asked a question about the employment discount, which goes from 18 to 20 billion, and the impact on the effective AOW premium. That was a key point of my speech. Is there anything else you can say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u149	I was just browsing for the previous point. Can you repeat that question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u150	Yesterday, I drew attention to the fact that the reduction in working hours already costs 18 billion and goes to 20 billion, among other things, through indexation. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u151	Was that in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u152	As a result, the effective AOW premium is getting lower and lower. My question is what the Secretary of State thinks of that. He praises some improvement for the elderly, but he doesn't say anything if he has to answer this question. In many ways, much larger amounts go to workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u153	We've discussed this with each other before. I find the tone in this debate, as well as in yesterday's debate, that this cabinet is conducting some sort of criminal expedition towards the elderly, quite wrong. I have said that a lot of measures are specifically targeted at workers, a lot of measures, such as the elderly discount, are specifically targeted at the elderly, and we also have a lot of measures that are just right for both groups. Looking at the effect of the government agreement on the purchasing power of older people, I really think that there is no reason to misread what we have for older people. I really want to fight that. Mr Van Rooijen is now asking specifically what this means for the AOW index. I don't have that answer. I would like to give that to him, but of course it is a bit about the image that is outlined here and which I really do not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u154	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u155	I'll get back to you in second term. I thought I asked a simple question, but he seems to have come across quite complicated. And that was, I think, not me. Because I'm not talking about indexing either, I'm talking about the simple fact that the effective AOW premium goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u156	Yeah, okay. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u157	Let's get back to loan assistance. Things are already going a lot better than the debates before. Because there is now a concrete amount and it is legally possible to make up for the problems of the last three years for 17 million. That's good news. Is the government prepared to send a draft proposal to the Chamber in the first three months of 2018, so that we can look at, for example, coverage, implementation and everything that goes with it? Then we don't have to do it now in 24 hours, but then we can do it carefully. Are you prepared to come forward with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u158	Unfortunately, I do not yet have that willingness, because I have not yet found cover for the measure. It is a measure that ultimately has to cover expenditure. As a government, we do what we intend to do. I think I have given the opportunity to say that it is not technically impossible. But I do not think it is a good idea to come up with a proposal on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u159	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yes, that is clear, but it is very harsh because it is precisely the government that was asked in 2014 to deal with this in two weeks' time. I have never heard that from an Ombudsman. And after that, it's gonna be three more years. So we just want the government to take care of this then the successor government to do so, because it was asked to do so. Normally you can bounce it back to us, but in this case it doesn't cost 17 million at all, because these people go to debt relief. So I insist in my question: does the government want to come up with a proposal for cover because it was simply requested by another High College of State to the government in 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u161	I'm afraid I'm also pushing in my answer. I don't think that's a good idea. So we're not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u162	To avoid a second term on my part...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u163	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u164	I had asked one more question about fees and getting married halfway through a year and you'd lose some of the fees. I would also be happy if the Secretary of State would answer that in writing, but I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u165	Yes, we can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u166	Okay, thank you. You can sit down again. I don't know how long we'll be back tonight, but we're going to the second term of office. I shall begin with Mr Mulder, second term. You do not have to use it; you are free to do so. Mr Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u167	Mr. Chairman. The conclusion of a few days' discussion is that this coalition, this government, is incredibly falling apart. A few weeks of dumb talk to the press about a reduction in charges, while it's just an increase of 1.2 billion. And we have a Secretary of State here today who just says, "It's 3.4 billion." A burden increase: 3.4 billion is being taken away from the citizen by a coalition that chooses Africa and a bunch of elite belonging to multinationals, as if it were the most ordinary thing in the world. Why help Africa? We've already thrown so many billions there, and that goes to criminal, wrong dictators. 3.4 billion more burdens, that is the result of this debate. Mr. Chairman. Another point in this debate is that we have noted that, among other things, the increase in costs is due to increased energy costs. Of course, that's weird, because the costs have never been so low. So how can there be an increase of at least 35%? And that's just the beginning. That's what we hear here, but we'll get that on paper in the morning, because that's obviously because of that idiotry in Paris. It has already been decided that we will pay for this in the Netherlands through the ODE. They just don't know how much billion we're going to pay. This is also charged to households. So I am not talking about the 400 million that are now being covered, but about many, many billions. Mr. Chairman. Although it is quite pleasant to have a debate in which I can talk, and with a chairman who knows how to preside, I would like to point out that the attitude of the coalition is starting to irritate me more and more. She doesn't like that lifted middle finger to the Netherlands. We seem to be dealing with a kamikaze cabinet. It goes from abolishing the dividend tax without arguments by dealing with the Hills Act without speaking time for the opposition to a government agreement and a Tax Plan with an increase in charges. Mr. Chairman. The coalition can try to silence the PVV through dirty tricks. They're not gonna make it. We continue to stand up for the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all the answers that have been given today...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u170	What are you saying, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u171	Excuse Mr Snels, but do I understand that the VVD, the largest government group, no longer has any say in next year's tax plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u172	Mrs Aukje de Vries has indicated that she does not wish to make use of her three minutes' speaking time in the second term. She did take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u173	That's very unfortunate. Very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u174	We talked for three days about the Tax Plan. I believe that the questions I have asked are well answered. Then I do not wish to impose any further burden on the agenda of the Chamber. We'd better spend that time on the Hills of the Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u175	Proceed, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to thank the Secretary of State for today's many answers. Mrs De Vries is right that the Secretary of State has, of course, already given a great deal of answers in the previous consultations and the many hours we have talked to each other. I can imagine that, at least for me, the treatment of his first tax plan was a new adventure. I have a number of amendments. I explained it yesterday. I won't go into that anymore. I await the Secretary of State's advice on this matter. I do have two more motions. The first motion concerns the respect of the unwound foot. I recognise the complexity of the subject and I also thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply he has just given, including as regards the coherence between the different legislative pathways. But especially after the Ombudsman's warnings, I would like to table this motion together with Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Ombudsman states that the protection of the herd-free foot in the event of recovery is not sufficiently ensured;]] [[Whereas, in the government agreement, the government recognises that, in its special responsibility as a creditor, it must respect the seizure-free footage and that the government agrees with the need for a legally free seizure-free footage;]] [[noting that protection of the attachment-free foot in the event of a bank attachment has not so far been regulated by law and that the Tax Administration can seize all types of bank assets;]] [[calls on the Government to respect, even as long as legal protection is not explicitly laid down, the free-of-wound base in any form of recovery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u177	My next motion, also co-signed by Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer, concerns the development of indicators for capability inequality and capacity development. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet will carry out a review of the taxing of actual returns in box 3 of the income tax;]] [[Whereas, when taxing capital income, it is relevant to have knowledge of the development of capital;]] [[whereas research is being carried out into property inequality in our country, but these indicators are not yet sufficiently developed and there is discussion, for example, about what the savings of pension money means for property inequality;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with CBS and CPB, to work on indicators that provide insight into the capacity development and inability in our country, in order to be able to report on this periodically,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u178	Finally, I would like to say something about what has struck me in the many debates we have had in recent times. We recognise that tax legislation must be designed in such a way that it can be implemented as effectively as possible by the Tax Administration. We also know that it has been complicated in recent years. But I have the occasional feeling that the balance sheet is going to be a little bit too far, it should be easy for the Tax Administration rather than going to "it should be easy for the citizen." That's the one. The other is that the method of treatment and the long preparation time for the Tax Administration sometimes make it difficult for the Chamber to argue and deal with legislation properly. I know the Secretary of State is coming up with a policy letter in the spring. Perhaps he could also comment on the criteria he wants to apply when considering tax measures and tax reforms, and then include as one of the criteria the importance of citizens and the simplicity and comprehensibility of the tax system for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I am now going to Mr Omtzigt, who is still writing a motion. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr President, over the last few days I have become a little used to speaking longer before me. I've been mugged a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u181	Is Mr. Snel finally a quick one, the weather is not right!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u182	Well, it wasn't so much Mr. Snels. It was also that Mrs De Vries did not speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u183	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u184	I have to admit that my fellow Members had a point in that regard. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Thank you also for the hard work that has taken place in the Ministry of Finance for 24 hours. I'm afraid it'll be a few more hours. I have a few more questions to ask you. That is quite natural, because the number of measures in this Tax Plan, the Ofm (Other tax measures 2018) and other measures is quite large. I'll go into article 10a of the Vpb first. The Secretary of State is a bit concerned with the question. Why is direct external financing treated differently from indirect external financing? There's no reason for that. Article 10a is, historically, not meant for indirect external financing but for group loans. Apparently, the Supreme Court accepted that. But if a transaction is non-business, you have to deal with that transaction and not the interest deduction. If you do not, you will maintain the abuse of direct external financing of non-business transactions. I would therefore like another response from the Secretary of State, including the previous example. The answer on frontier workers was an interesting one. If it is so generously regulated for Belgium, would the Secretary of State agree that frontier workers from Germany will also receive the tax rebates directly in the provisional tax assessment? Apparently, the treaty doesn't require this, but it would do a lot of harm. Is this coulance possible? And how are frontier workers informed? If they receive €50 net less per month as of January 19, they will be frightened and do not know exactly which phone number to call. And, given the abolition of the special contact points for frontier workers, I do not assume that the Tax Telephone understands it at once and knows what the answer is. If you are considered a qualifying taxable person for one year, you can get a tax discount per provisional declaration. Then I would like to know about the handling of the 2015 declaration. Is it expected that these declarations by foreign taxpayers from neighbouring countries will all be final in 2019? Then the gift tax. I think it is important that supervision by the Tax Administration of the implementation of the scheme should not get in the way. At the same time, I find it really undesirable that partners should be liable to tax on assets that they keep private. Let me give you another example for convenience. Next year, two people will marry in the general community of goods, with the prenupposition that they want to keep gifts and inheritances private. That is not a limited community of goods, for they share premarital property. Before marriage, the parents of the poorest partner died. So that legacy doesn't share with the partners. They are not going to share the legacy that the most powerful partner is going to get, but that is not yet in the picture at the time of the calculation of Article 6 Succession Law, because these parents are still alive. Then, on the basis of the Secretary of State's bill, the least wealthy partner must pay tax on half the value of the inheritance received from his or her own parents. My question to the Secretary of State is: what are these future husbands doing wrong? What have they done to earn that they have to pay tax on assets that do not pass from one partner to another, namely equity? Is marrying in general community of property with private keeping gifts and inheritances as of January 1st, is that the standard.... is suddenly a tax structure in this respect? Can you get the famous blue envelope on your wedding day? I have a further question to ask about the VAT agricultural exemption. Foresters are also going to be subject to VAT. I understand that there are a lot of questions about the demarcation of the forestry company. Can the IRS help forest owners with that? Where can they go with their questions? I still have some questions about foster parents, but they are also asked by my colleague from the SP and we do not have to ask them twice. In the first term, I asked a question about the 285 travellers who, according to the Dutch services, have joined ISIS and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Syria and Iraq. 55 of them returned, about 50 dead and 185 still there. I want to know whether we of all these 285 people are sure that the surcharges have been stopped, that the study funding has been stopped and that any other financial support from the Dutch State has stopped these people. That was part of the 2014 plan to combat this. So did the Tax Administration get all these 285 or... minus the killed... 235 bsn numbers from the services and check them one by one to see if any additional fees will be paid? The fact that not so many people are travelling at the moment does not alter the fact that the people who have been travelling years ago should not receive a supplement either. Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. I'll start with the mortgage loans. You may recall that in the first term, I asked for people to pay off annually in order to get a cheaper mortgage. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, interest rates for mortgage loans are historically low;]] [[noting that for by far the majority of homeowners it is beneficial if part of the mortgage can be transferred to a mortgage with lower interest rates;]] [[Whereas almost all mortgage contracts offer the possibility of paying 10% to 20% of the mortgage free of charge each year;]] [[Whereas, in this way, a high-interest mortgage can be converted into a lower-interest mortgage in a maximum of 10 years if the amount to be paid free of charge is converted into a new mortgage part;]] [[Whereas this method does not entail any cost for consumers, an advantage of up to hundreds of euro debt securities per month but is not offered by mortgage providers;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage with mortgage providers and the Authority for Financial Markets to allow for the use of penalty-free redemption parts to convert mortgages into lower monthly mortgage charges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u185	I have one more motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u186	Go ahead. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u187	I have a small correction after coalition talks, Mr. Chairman. This is about loan assistance. I apologise in particular to Mr Nijboer, because I assume that some other fellow Members would like to sign this motion. That's because the answer I just got from the Secretary of State didn't go far enough. Because that's something we've always done in Chambers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 the Ombudsman invited the government to resolve the problems with immediate effect, if possible with retroactive effect;]] [[noting that a solution was not reached until 2017;]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs have fallen into debt relief through recoveries over the past three years;]] [[calls on the Government to find a solution to all cases of problems arising from the determination of income following the publication of the Ombudsman's report;]] [[invites the Government to send solutions to the Chamber in the first three months of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Slootweg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u188	There are five signatures underneath. Counting is my hobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yeah, she'll be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u191	Then I'm going to see Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u192	You're gonna have to ask around, but then there's gonna be an answer. I am not quite reassured yet about the energy note. Because the use of people without solar panels is already higher than what they will get in the future as a discount with solar panels. This may sound cryptic, but what I'm saying is that working with an average with solar panels, even if that's maybe just a small percentage of the whole thing, quite distorts the numbers. Now, for example, the difference between people who have solar panels and those who do not, is 220 kWh. It is expected that the use of everyone will fall, but those without solar panels will not even reach the lower level of those with solar panels now. So if you calculate an average with solar panels in it, things are presented differently than they are. We can also see that the bill is already higher without solar panels and that the bill also increases more without solar panels. It would be good if we could get a good look at that. There will be a motion from Mr Nijboer. We signed it. The Secretary of State says we're doing pretty well in terms of assets. But two thirds of the assets in the Netherlands are owned by 10% of the Dutch. On the gini coefficient line, we're at 0.9. On 1, the power is in the hands of one person. This is mainly due to the fact that middle incomes have been given much less savings capacity. I also mentioned this in the General Financial Reviews. But I wouldn't say that we're doing pretty well. I co-signed the motion for a resolution because it would be good if we followed it more actively, but in the end, of course, you would also want something to happen about it. I have also co-signed the motion for a resolution on the attachment-free foot. I also signed some of Mr Nijboer's comments and two more motions on fiscal and greening with Mr Van Raan. There are possibilities to narrow the profit base through the CV/e.g. structure. Europe is not allowed to do that anymore. The narrowing through the Innovation Box is getting a little less. Unofficial capital is still allowed. There is no withholding tax. Corporations are used to reduce profits. The common account fund is also being used and the tax unit, which we now need to adapt. On the list there are many financial constructions. We offer them to wealthy people and companies to pretend to make less profit, which means they have to pay less tax. We see that there is a constant push against us from abroad. It is constantly said that this CV/e.g. structure should no longer be used, and in fact we also believe that informal capital should not be used as a basis for narrowing it down. We are now being addressed at the holding cooperatives. A law must be passed for that. However, the withholding tax exemption for companies with limited liability is again being extended. That's $30 million. We still have the future of the fiscal unit, which is uncertain. Netherlands tax haven, in a lot of jargon, chairman. It's annoying that I have to do it with so much jargon, but this is what it is. The coalition agreement has a bright spot, as far as the SP is concerned, because the letterbox constructions must stop. This would be done by taxing royalties, dividends and interest when it comes to the low tax jurisdictions, the tax havens. We actually are, but we shouldn't call it that. I have a supplement to that and submit the motion together with my colleague Bruins. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has indicated its intention to counter letterbox constructions by introducing withholding tax;]] [[considers that it is not certain that only the imposition of withholding tax will really prevent letterbox constructions;]] [[noting that the parliamentary interrogation of tax arrangements, as well as the report of the General Court of Auditors on tax avoidance, showed that by engaging a trust office, substance requirements for flow companies can be easily met;]] [[calls on the government to indicate in the fiscal policy agenda 2018 how it intends to deal with substance requirements to counter letterbox constructions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u193	And then the dividend tax. Where exactly does it end up? This question has not been answered. I didn't tire you with an interruption, but we're still looking for the answer, hence my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is unclear where effects of the abolition of the dividend tax fall and its impact on the real Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the Government to have the effects of abolishing the dividend tax on the real Dutch economy examined by an independent party,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u194	This motion can't be a surprise, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that combating smoking should involve more than just increasing excise duties on smoke;]] [[calls on the Government to create an addiction fund and to include in it the proceeds from the increase in excise duties on smoke,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u195	The handling of taxes and the Tax Administration is perhaps for people who have studied for it or in this House of Representatives, although I dare to doubt it. If you're a foster parent or guardian and have the upbringing in the hands of someone who doesn't get it at home, it's a real pain in the ass to run into the IRS. I see the willingness of the Secretary of State I did not discuss this point with him in this debate and hope that he will be able to respond positively to the motion I have tabled here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas foster parents and guardians, even if they fulfil the same role as natural parents, find it difficult to apply for and are finally granted tax rebates and surcharges;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a contact person for foster parents and guardians with the Tax Administration, as well as to create a web page so that information on schemes, rights and contact person can be easily found,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to make it very brief, also in view of the rest of the evening. We have already talked extensively with the Secretary of State about the Tax Plan and the government agreement changes included in it, both in legislative submission and here. There are some amendments that my group has tabled, as well as some motions, even from the legislative consultation. On a number of points, I still have questions, but all these are reflected in the amendments which will be pre-advised shortly. I await the Secretary of State's advice with interest. I should like to thank the Secretary of State for all his answers. I would also like to thank all the people of the ministry who have served us very well during this pressure cooker called "Tax Plan," about which we ask more than 1,000 questions each time. They deserve praise, Mr. Chairman. Finally. I look forward to two effects of the Secretary of State, firstly to an ambitious implementation of the tax avoidance measures contained in the government agreement. Ambitious and fast, as soon as possible. There are now about three people in this room called "Quick" or something like that. I join as number four here and I want to have this interpretation here quickly. I understand the search around taxing actual returns in box 3. What can't, can't, and we shouldn't make things that can't, because all we get is accidents. But I'm impatient about this, but I'm also a little frustrated about it, because we're stuck all the time. So I think it is important that, in addition to all the good steps we are taking now, the maximum amount of research is done to find a workable mode. No one's kept to the impossible, but after years of searching, we have to come up with something smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you. Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u199	Mr. Chairman. I would like to recommend four motions and three amendments at the end of the sessions on the Tax Plan. I shall begin with my first amendment. This depends on how I feel the cabinet looks at SMEs and family businesses in relation to large companies. Several parties have included in their election programme to reduce the Innovation Box. The Cabinet does the same. I would say: go ahead and do not take the lowest rate for family businesses or smaller SMEs, as has been proposed. That is the subject of my first amendment, which I strongly recommend to you. I felt that the Secretary of State was just getting away from the question of what he is doing for SMEs on balance. I've been looking up the source. On page 100 of the CPB report is 2.7 billion in burden increase for companies. I understand that group chairmen think: every time we shout very loudly that we are giving a lot of relief, everyone will believe it and we will also have the abolition of the dividend tax. But that's just not true. On balance, there is an increase in the burden on businesses, especially SMEs. I think that's a bad economic choice. An amendment to the Gift Act has been tabled. That's getting broad support. The cabinet has taken over. We have tabled an amendment in response to Mr Omtzigt's questions on loan assistance. I saw a motion from the coalition on this, but it's been going on for years now, and you can just settle it now. I'll get on the motions. My first motion concerns the cost of sustainability. Mrs Leijten has already announced this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands faces a major challenge of sustainability;]] [[Whereas this costs a great deal of money, leading to the polluter paying;]] [[Whereas at present it is not clear who bears the burden of greening;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to clarify how many citizens and companies contribute to the greening exercise, giving explicit insight into the energy bill of both energy efficient and less energy efficient housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u200	On the rent payment, the Secretary of State said that the Minister of the Interior will return to it. I also think it is his responsibility, which is why we have a motion on the cashiers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rental allowance is intended to help pay the rent;]] [[Whereas the grant exemption is intended to grant tax-free small amounts;]] [[Whereas it is possible to charge, in a family context, any rental for accommodation;]] [[Whereas in this way the amount of rent payment received by the tenant can be maximized;]] [[Whereas an artificially high rent may be refunded duty-free;]] [[Whereas in this way a cash flow can be formed and the public authorities are disadvantaged;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to make this construction impossible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u201	Then there's a motion on the capacity at the IRS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional controls by the Tax Administration sometimes earn themselves more than recouped;]] [[Whereas it is important to combat tax evasion;]] [[Whereas more insight is needed into which parts of the Tax Administration could lead to more tax revenue and less tax fraud;]] [[invites the Cabinet to examine which elements of the Tax Administration could lead to more tax revenues and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u202	Finally, a forward-looking motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the tax system is not sufficiently structured for the digital economy;]] [[whereas companies operating in the digital economy do not all make a reasonable and fair contribution to our collective provision;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to adapt the tax system so that digital services are also reasonably involved in taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u203	I wanted to start a warm closing statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u204	That saves you until after Mr Omtzigt's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mr Nijboer constantly said that the CPB bill said that SMEs had three decimal places of so many billion extra burdens. I just grabbed the table. Businesses face 0.1 billion of total policy burdens. Could Mr Nijboer explain how this 0.1 billion, which is almost a round-off of charges-neutral... We're lowering the Vpb, but we're doing a lot of ground-breaking for companies, so the interest rate is no longer deductible. The VPB rate for small businesses goes up to 16% in two steps. Where does the PvdA get that 3.6 billion from, except from its own bank account?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u206	No, that's definitely not from my own credit card. Imagine that! I'd be able to make even better sums. No, this is from question 100 of the CPB, which deals with structural burden development. I understand the coalition's been talking about 2021. There is a huge tax shifting of burden relief that would take place after 2021. This is now happening before 2021. This VAT is structural, but the two-tax rate of income tax would be returned 600 million out of 6 billion anyway. I have the figures from CPB's question 100: 1.2 billion burdens on families, 2.7 billion companies, 1.3 billion gifts to foreign companies. Balance: 2,6 billion burdens. That figure comes from question 100 of the CPB. You can read it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u207	In any case, this means that the initial ratio of up to 3 billion burdens on companies is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u208	I said 2.6 to 2.7 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u209	2.7 for SMEs, too. That doesn't make any sense. We'll have that discussion at another time. Just grab the numbers and the report itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u210	It's true. 2.7 billion companies, 1.3 billion abroad. Question 100 from the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u211	Now for the final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State has held the first debate with this Chamber on the Tax Plan before the General Reviews. I think he did that handsomely and nicely. That's what I want to say from this side. It's quite a job. It has been said many times, but at the end of this process I think it is a time to thank the officials, the official support for making amendments, but also for supporting everyone and for answering the questions. I hope that we will support our amendments and motions, which are constructive in nature, and I would like to inform the Secretary of State that a ruling by the House of Representatives will also help to give some broader support to the coalition parties. I have been here for five years, but it is striking that very few motions and amendments have been tabled jointly by an opposition and a coalition party. There are really strikingly few of them. I understand that, but I have tabled a number of motions that I could have gotten some broader support for. I've tried that. I understand that at the beginning of such a period, but I would nevertheless advise the coalition groups, also in view of the 76-74 ratio and the somewhat more constructive and less constructive parts in Parliament, to look at the motions and amendments that we and my fellow Members have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u214	What does Mr Nijboer mean by the more constructive and less constructive parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u215	Well, the PVV I don't think in general... I do not always think that the Forum for Democracy is constructive either. I can hear Mr Mulder say anything that keeps his back straight, but I wouldn't want to take those words in the mouth. No, if a motion of censure is tabled before the General Reviews have started, I do not think that is a sign of constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u216	Agreed, I am pleased that it has been possible to table a motion with Mr Bruins and Mr Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u217	Yes, but I also think Mrs Leijten is extremely constructive. You should see how with such a sea of motions and amendments... I have also often done this with Mr Merkies, both in fiscal debates and in the General Reviews and the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers, especially for his extensive exposé on property inequality in the Netherlands. It's very nice that that was answered so extensively. This gives all kinds of opportunities to talk about the questionnaire in the coming years. Is that desirable? Is that what we want? What are we gonna do with that? What does that look like in the future? I have only two motions for resolutions after that very comprehensive answer. The first concerns the agricultural regulation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in particular, extensive farms which invest to a limited extent use the agricultural scheme;]] [[Whereas these are relatively often older farmers who are generally less familiar with the digital processing of data;]] [[Whereas keeping a VAT administration is a relatively important task for the target group which so far uses the agricultural system, in particular the billing administration;]] [[Whereas, following consideration of the present legislative proposal by the Second and First Chambers, the remaining preparation time for users of the agricultural regulation to set up a VAT administration is very short;]] [[whereas the current users of the agricultural scheme, in accordance with the commitment of the Secretary of State for Finance of 6 November last, are entitled to effect their right to deduct throughout 2018, but are obliged to make a quarterly VAT return;]] [[Whereas, if a number of conditions are met, it is possible for small traders to work with one VAT return per year;]] [[calls on the Government to allow all current users of the agricultural scheme to work with a single VAT return for the entire year 2018, if they so request, so that, if they so wish, they can have the opportunity to get their VAT administration in order throughout 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u220	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that lifting according to capacity is an important starting point;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually in a standardised manner on the difference in the tax burden between one earner and two earners and to analyse the development of that difference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u221	It remains for me to say that I look forward with great confidence to working with this Secretary of State in the coming years. He has quickly built up that trust in view of his excellent performances so far in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u222	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Secretary of State. He didn't answer all of our 16 questions, but he did answer most of them and also some of the most important ones. The most important thing is that the theme of greening, i.e. the three-stroke climate change, greening and polluter, also pays its attention. So thank you for that. I am going to try to do a reverse filibuster, which is to say as much as possible in the shortest possible time. Because I have seven motions. I explained the two amendments yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u224	I'd start right away!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that fruit and vegetables should in principle be exempt from VAT;]] [[noting the need to adapt the VAT Directive at European level;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to an exemption from VAT for fruit and vegetables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that electricity and natural gas are not homogeneous products from an environmental perspective, because the environmental damage caused (in terms of kilograms of CO/unit) depends on the way electricity is generated;]] [[noting that the current energy tax is based on the output base;]] [[noting that the Plan Bureau for the Environment states that taxes must be directly in line with environmental emissions;]] [[Whereas an energy tax on the environmental damage caused by the generation of green electricity for consumers, both large and small, leads to a reduction in tariffs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether adjustment of output to input basis is possible by differentiation of energy taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Planning Office for the Environment states that environmental damage should be priced in order to avoid economic disturbances;]] [[noting that fossil fuels play a major role in the Dutch economy and that this is a major cause of environmental damage;]] [[calls on the Government to examine a progressive tariff structure for energy taxation in line with the principle that more pollution leads to a higher tax burden,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aviation sector is one of the most heavily subsidised industries;]] [[Considering that aviation has grown so explosively and that social costs are also rising;]] [[noting that flying is the most environmentally damaging form of transport and that aviation is responsible for 10% of the climate change caused by the Netherlands;]] [[considers that the polluter pays principle should be applied consistently and that flying is unsustainablely cheap;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce the flight tax immediately and not until 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the Plan Office for the Environment, companies cause an annual environmental damage of EUR 7 billion, but that 55% of the total use of energy is not taxed;]] [[Whereas research carried out by the Plan Bureau for the Environment shows that better pricing of this environmental damage not only makes a positive contribution to reducing the consumption of raw materials, but also provides incentives and that this pricing is much wider than just the burning of fossil raw materials;]] [[Whereas an environmental tax on polluting practices stimulates innovation;]] [[calls on the government to examine the opinions in the report Fiscal greening: Tax shift of the PBL and to submit a roadmap to the House of Representatives by 1 March 2018 at the latest with advice on how they are applied in the 2019 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fossil fuels play a major role in the Dutch economy and that this is a major cause of environmental damage;]] [[noting that, according to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, this is not a new major technical intervention, since the existing energy taxes can be used;]] [[Whereas an environmental tax on polluting practices stimulates innovation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how energy taxation, in the production phase and to a lesser extent the consumption phase, can make a direct link between resource use and environmental damage in terms of greenhouse gases and air pollutants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan and Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-60]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-61]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-62]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-63]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan and Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u226	One of the considerations in this motion was the same as that in the motion in part No. 64 and I skipped. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Plan Bureau for the Environment states that a large part of the environmental damage, amounting to EUR 7 billion, arises in the processing of raw materials, but that such a 55% is not taxed;]] [[noting the need for consistent application of the ……]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the exemption from energy taxation by using energy as a raw material for the chemical reduction, electrolytic and metallurgical processes and the production of fertilizers, methanol or hydrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u227	No, I'm not. I have 14 seconds left to thank the amendment service for the hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u228	Okay. You mean the legislative office. Thank you. That's always nice. Mr Van Rooijen!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u229	Good evening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u230	Good evening. You're excited, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u231	Yeah, always.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u232	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u233	Yes. Good evening, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you, too, for your breathless listening to last night's debate and tonight's debate. I actually only had two main points, and I would like to refer them to the Secretary of State. However, I would first like to thank him for the answers he has given to all my fellow Members in general and therefore to me. I had two points, which I repeat briefly. It'll take some getting used to. Tax age discrimination is a subject that I have been raising since I was in the Senate. We will also continue to discuss it with you. The reason for this is, of course, the non-indexation of pensions, but that is because of the ftk. We'll talk about that later. You yourself, understandably from the cabinet, your predecessor did it, have taken measures for the elderly. These are now more than in Rutte II, and I would also like to acknowledge that; think of the elderly's discount, increase and phasing-out. However, yesterday I mentioned in detail a list which I only repeat briefly, to ask you to look at it thoroughly in the follow-up. This is the list of discriminatory measures, namely the income-dependent care premium, which was raised at Rutte I from 35,000 to 55,000, which only the elderly pay; the forest tax; the introduction of the Wul; the abolition of the elderly's allowance; the abolition of the Hills Act, which we are now facing; a half-general tax reduction for the elderly; a lower reduction than the working discount and a much lower and faster reduction of the elderly's discount. That's eight. In total, I call that the anti-aging policy of Rutte I, II and III. I keep saying that. Then there is my second point. For the sake of clarity, I pointed out in the first place that there is an astronomical budget available for the reduction. In addition, everything is sinking into the non-sink. It was 18 billion, according to the Court of Auditors' report, and is now 20 billion by additional increase and indexing in the system. 20 billion is about 6% on the disk rates of all workers. My question was why this job discount is actually so big a flywheel, is so expensive and has such big consequences, because it means that workers pay far less taxes than the disks suggest. It also has an effect, and I think there's a secret agenda behind it. As a result, workers do not pay 18% but only 5% to 10% of their income. If this policy continues, the workers will soon have to pay almost no more AOW premium. That's one. And two: because it goes through the labour discount and not through lower disk rates for the workers, the older workers who are no longer working get that disk rate reduction. That was my second point. I would like the Secretary of State to return to that in the second term. Otherwise, unfortunately, I have to come back to this in more detail in another debate. Once again, all due respect for the steps that have been taken, but the strategic problem of three Rutte Cabinets, which I am addressing here, is not addressed in any way with these steps, which are partly general.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u234	I hardly believe so, but you have five minutes to speak! No, no, no, don't come back, it was a joke! Okay, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and certainly his officials for their reply. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to identify feasible options to further reduce the substantial differences between one and two-earners and to inform the Court of Justice about this before the summer of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u236	In view of the debate, of course, you would have expected a much more far-reaching motion, with the aim of closing the gap acutely, at least with the 2019 Tax Plan. Anyway, I can count in this room. This is actually some kind of information request to the Ministry. I am counting on a warm welcome from the Secretary of State and massive support in the Chamber. That's what we're assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u237	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u238	Mr President, thank you. I'm a little jealous of how Martin van Rooijen was welcomed when he came this way and also a bit of his stamina. I propose that I speak for four and a half hours at the next legislative consultation. Then I'm hoping for the same treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u239	Ah. Are you jealous?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u240	A little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u241	Aaah!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u242	Yeah, look at that: 75 years and then speaking like that, and so long! Classy! Mr President, the dividend tax is coming along. We're gonna talk about taxrulings. We're gonna talk about the Hills Act later; I can't wait. So I'll be brief. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply, the fellow Members and all the others who have contributed. I am dissatisfied with the answer to my question about the Innovation Box. That's why I have a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government will review the Innovation Box in 2022;]] [[Whereas the Central Planning Office states that:]] [[international research suggests that instruments such as the Innovation Box are mainly used for tax avoidance;]] [[the way in which the Innovation Box has now been designed does not make it likely that underinvestment in research and development will be countered;]] [[it is unclear how the Innovation Box contributes to solving market failures;]] [[Whereas research firm Dialogic concluded that the Innovation Box is unlikely to be the most powerful means of stimulating R&D and innovation;]] [[calls on the Government not to review the Innovation Box by 2022, but already by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34785-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u243	Mr President, I too am turning in time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u244	Thank you. Fine! This brings us to the end of the second term of office. We're gonna combine the suspension with dinner break. I'm also looking a little secretly at the Secretary of State. At least, secretly. Is 45 minutes enough for the motions filed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u245	There's a lot of them, but we're just gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u246	Okay. I'm suspending the meeting a little longer, until 9:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u247	I see the Secretary of State is ready to respond. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As always, 45 minutes is a magical time in which just everything that is needed succeeds. We have a whole set of motions, amendments and questions. I'll get through that as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u249	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u250	Yes, please. Exactly. We're gonna try. The questions. Mrs De Vries wanted to waive her second term if I answered this question, so I am just going to do that. It was about providing information on the concept of a partner in the event of a supplement. It was not sufficiently answered. We all know that recoveries are not fun for anyone, especially after a happy moment like marriage or entering into a partnership. Examples came from a RADAR episode. The Tax Administration attaches great importance to good communication with citizens. Citizens should have sufficient opportunities to be informed of the rights and obligations when receiving surcharges. If it turns out that something has not been possible or has not been sufficiently clear, this is always a reason for the Tax Administration to consider whether the information provision, for example on its website or at the surcharge service point, needs to be adapted. In this case, we're going to look at that again. By the way, the website of the Tax Administration explains quite clearly I myself looked at who is the supplement partner and when changes in living and living situations need to be notified or passed on. The IRS doesn't know everything on its own. The taxpayer is asked: if anything changes in your privacy, pass it on. That is what we may need to communicate even more clearly. If we do, they'll know that the moment you get married, you're gonna live together or have another event in your life, there could be fiscal consequences. However, if that is not clear enough and there have been unpleasant surprises then we will see again if we can pay more attention to that. Mr Omtzigt has asked a number of questions about frontier workers, such as when they will be informed about the changes. For frontier workers, communication is carried out through the employer. The withholding agent has a communication channel with the Tax Administration and there is also a special forum for this, the Forum Tax Service Providers. That's something you can take care of. You also have intermediate days especially for frontier workers. The Tax Administration also communicates about this specific measure on the website, as I said at the previous point. Also very relevant per foreign country for which your questions apply, even if you are a foreign taxpayer, is that there are declaration campaigns in which specific attention is paid to income tax. In addition, the Tax Administration has also established a website together with other governments and it is called borderinfo.nl. In short, we actually have the idea that the maximum communication channels have been opened up around frontier workers. We hope that will suffice. Then there was a question about the abolition of the VAT agricultural exemption. Mr Omtzig asked about the foresters, whether they could go somewhere with their questions after the abolition. The answer is yes. For questions, the foresters can of course also contact the Tax Telephone and their inspector. Then Mr Omtzigt also asks whether German frontier workers, another frontier worker, like Belgian frontier workers, could obtain a tax reduction in Belgium by means of a provisional tax. The essence is that this is regulated in the bilateral tax treaty with Belgium. This is not regulated for other countries in Europe, not even for Germany. If we were to include that again in a tax treaty for Germany, then we would probably have to include such a provision in treaties with all the other countries in Europe. In any case, it is theoretically possible, but I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt that we have been negotiating the previous tax treaty with Germany for 26 years. So it is not impossible to re-apply one-sidedly as a negotiating partner. But if the other accepts that and wants to get on with it right away, is a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u251	Were those all Mr Omtzig's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u252	No, no. He had a lot of questions at the end, namely about the jihad travellers. Pretty tight question, I guess. Of all 285 jihad travellers, was it certain that all charges had been stopped? That's what we're talking about at the IRS. Since 2015, we have had 20 cases where extra-travelers' surcharges have been stopped. For the sake of completeness, it is good to indicate that not all travellers also have surcharges. Sometimes there was no information or anything, but for all cases where it could be established that they were extravagants, a report from the Tax Administration was drawn up in which it was taken back. That is very important to establish. I believe you also mentioned study funding and other services, but we cannot quickly check whether this is the case for all other public services. We are not talking about this in the Tax Office either, but we are assuming that these services, like us, will receive a report or a report from JenV about the extravagants and at that time as an executive service will be able to stop the surcharges. Mr Omtzigt referred to a question he had previously asked about marriage law and donation tax. I should like to comment on this very briefly. I don't want to repeat the example he outlined completely. I can say, however, that in the example Mr Omtzigt has just set out, it is possible to avoid the imposition of a gift tax. That can be very simple and that is not an obstacle for either partner. If one of the partners brings something in and clears it, it just has to make sure that the other one does the same. I have the examples here in the written set. I've gone into that in detail. Mr Omtzigt had also asked for Article 10a, Corporate Tax Act. He asked how there could be a difference in this law between direct and indirect funding. The answer to this was also shared earlier, namely: that is the intention of the law. So that's not something that just happened or we don't want. It's really the point. We have said that we are going to try to sum up a lot of things in this with this Earnings Stripping measure. In fact, my procedural proposal would be for us to speak a little more extensively when we deal with the bill on this Earnings Stripping measure. That seems to me to be better than trying to take all the tax flows of direct and indirect financing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u253	At this rate, I can't ask the questions, but at that 10a I'll come back later. My colleague in the First Chamber of Rij will ask you more about this. As far as Germany is concerned, I would really like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not necessary for all countries. We only have two neighbouring countries where we have frontier workers: Belgium or Germany. There are no people who drive here every day from Poland. There will be for a long time. There are no people who fly here every day from Spain. So, please, deal with Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u254	I thought this was about the Tax Plan, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u255	This was about the tax plan. This was about the frontier workers. They will not receive their tax rebate from next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u256	You don't have to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u257	That saves €50 a month. The Belgian frontier workers can get them. So my request is: please arrange it with Germany, otherwise we will simply have written questions about this from January onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u258	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u259	That's a request. The question is: 285 people have travelled to ISIS area. Has the IRS received 285 official messages that have been checked, or has he only had 20, 30 or 40? I want to make sure that all the travellers have been made known to the Tax Office; we do not need to have the personal data and that of all those people the surcharges have been stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u260	Mr. Ommzigt, this subject raised you in your second term. Yesterday you criticized those who were going to ask all kinds of questions outside of order and rightly so, but now you are doing the same thing. So I would like to appeal to you to respond briefly. Then we move on to 23 motions, and I do not know how many amendments and the Hills Act. So I'm also appealing to you to hold back a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u261	Point of order. I referred to this in the second written set. I asked the question in the first period, but there was no answer. It was in my lyrics. That is why I asked again in the second term. I didn't want to say that to be silly, but I just asked this question three times. I am really concerned about the question of whether all the 285 travellers have been checked that they do not have any fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u262	I have to say, the number 285 doesn't look familiar to me. I don't know. All I have said here is that in all cases where there was a report or a report of office about a traveler, the Tax Administration has checked whether there were any increases. This led to the cessation of surcharges in 20 cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u263	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u264	Can the Secretary of State inform us within two weeks of how many official messages have been received since 2014? That 285 is the number of the NCTV. That is the number of extravagants since the beginning of the war in Syria and Iraq. This has been discussed five times in the Chamber. I want to know if all these people have been passed the data to the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u265	We can see how many we got, but I don't think that was the question. With us it was about how many cases the surcharges have been stopped. I'll see if we can get that information. If we have it, then of course we can share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u266	Please continue. No, Mr. Ommzigt. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u267	I'd like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u268	No, I'm sorry. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u269	Mr Van Rooijen asked about the effective AOW rate as a result of the increased labour cut. It is true that the government agreement increases the elderly discount by over 400 million. This is mainly intended to promote work. The reduction in working hours has also been increased. As a result, workers are left with more of their wages. That's good for the economy, and that's what we want. He asked what exactly that means for the effective AOW rate. I must say that we do not know this because we do not use it as a term ourselves. But I can imagine that Mr Van Rooijen would like to know. I propose that he ask us this question and that we return to it in a proper letter. The answer to the question what that means for the effective AOW rate at the moment, I wouldn't have for him so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u270	My question was not about the effective rate. My question was about the result of the reduction in working hours for effective rates, regardless of what they are, because they are between 5% and 10%. Is it justified that you pay so little AOW premium? The percentages are in the responses to the Tax Plan. I don't blame the Secretary of State for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u271	I shall now move on to the amendments. That's a whole set indeed. It's a little new to me. I call it the Chamberpiece that has to do with the bill and the number and hopefully everyone knows what I'm talking about. I shall begin with the amendments to the Tax Plan. The Van Rooijen amendment to item No. 19 calls for an increase in the high old age discount by €360 per 1 January. There is also a cover that is adequate in itself. The cabinet believes that there is a balanced purchasing power package. The abolition of the 30% regime will reduce the attractiveness of the Dutch locational environment. If I understand correctly, people are no longer eligible for an unpaid payment of real and necessary additional costs for time and stay outside the country of origin in the context of the employment. In short, you already feel it coming, we advise against this amendment. The Van Rooijen amendment to item No. 21 is about reducing the reduction rate of the elderly discount. The reduction rate for the elderly is then reduced from 15% to 4.5% in the Tax Plan. The phasing-out will not take place until nil but up to €150. The Cabinet considers that the 2018 Tax Plan is a balanced purchasing power package, partly thanks to the measures taken by the Cabinet in relation to the elderly discount. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. The Van Rooijen amendment to item No. 40 is about abolishing the sustainability contribution. This amendment reverses and abolishes the so-called sustainability contribution. As a result, 100% of the inflation correction is applied to the end of the second share of income tax instead of 75%. The cabinet believes that the 2018 Tax Plan is a balanced purchasing power package. This amendment leads to a further distribution of purchasing power. It increases the tax burden on labour. The cabinet does not want that, and that is why we advise against the amendment. The Van Rooijen amendment to item No. 23 deals with the re-introducing of the elderly allowance as of 1 January 2018. The coverage should be on the revenue and expenditure side. We have looked carefully at which parts of the revenue and expenditure side are covered and then we come to the conclusion that part of the expenditure side is not covered. Moreover, I am not at all in favour of reintroducing the old-age discount, but the coverage is not good either. That's why we don't recommend it. There's a lot more to it, but I think that's the core why we don't recommend it. Mr Dijkgraaf has in his amendment to item No. 27 requested the introduction of a ceiling on the S&D reduction. It introduces a ceiling on the reduction of payments of 30 million per taxable person. Those revenues would then be used in 2019 to maintain the parameters at level. There is also coverage, namely that it is budgetaryly neutral, so that is possible. In addition, it should be noted that in 2016 the choice was made to drop the ceiling, so that the scheme would become simpler but, above all, more effective. That was the reason why this was explicitly chosen in 2016. It is also not entirely clear why we should now introduce a ceiling again. In fact, the Court's previous fears that letting go of the ceiling would lead to a reduction in the share of SMEs have not been met. I already talked about this at the beginning of the evening: that's actually the same thing. 64% of SMEs receive the Wbso budget. And the number is relatively high when you consider that 41% of the R&D carried out in the Netherlands comes from SMEs. For this reason, we also advise against this amendment. Then there is the amendment to VAT on sea-going vessels in part No. 28, requesting a one-year extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u272	Before you go any further, Mr Dijkgraaf has a question on the amendment to item No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u273	Given the Secretary of State's text, I don't think we're gonna agree. For the report, it is good to say that we had this discussion at the time to keep the relationship between large companies and SMEs at the same level, but that we are now running into the situation that the budget is too low, so that the percentages go down. But then the odds are that those shares are gonna slide. It wasn't clear to the Secretary of State why that ceiling should come in. So that was the reason to do that. I hear the Secretary of State's verdict. I'd like him to change his mind now, but I'm starting to know him a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u274	Already.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u275	I'm afraid my judgment hasn't changed either, although the addition was very useful. I didn't know that was behind the motion. Since we started working on that ceiling, at least you haven't seen what might have been expected of SMEs going down. I understand the desire not to let that fall too much, because it is extremely important because innovative strength comes from SMEs. I think we all agree on that, but we have opted for simplification. We thought: let's do it without that ceiling, because that gives us a lot of simplification. You want to be able to grow in that too. In my opinion, it has not yet emerged in the evaluation that it does not work, so I think we should keep it as it is. For that reason, we advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u276	Mr Van Weyenberg, this is an amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u277	Certainly, and I have a small history of a similar amendment with Mr Dijkgraaf. Could the Secretary of State inform us about the development of the percentage of SMEs next year, now that that percentage is going down? Because I'd like to keep my finger on the wrist so that this doesn't go wrong next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u278	I'd like to give you my word on that. I don't know exactly what report I'm going to do that in, but given the amount of reports, I'm sure we can find a good place to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u279	In my view, what Mr Dijkgraaf wants to avoid is that the amount is being emptied by large companies at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. If something like this happens very quickly next year, what instruments does the Secretary of State have if we do not adopt this amendment to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u280	I haven't thought about that. That's kind of a like-dan question: let's say it's going to be very different than we think it's going to be. In any case, this has not been demonstrated by the evaluation and is not reflected in the figures for last year. I think, as the Americans say, we'll cross that bridge when we come to it. That goes a bit for this too. At least we're on the alert. I think it is wise for the Chamber to realise that I too would like SMEs to be part of this. But let's not think of any measures for that until it's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u281	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u282	Then I come to the amendment to item No. 28 on VAT for sea-going vessels, which postpones the date of entry into force from 1 January 2018 to 1 January 2019. Delays result in a loss of 3 million, covered by an increase in the excise duty on cigarettes and smoking tobacco. That is on top of the previous increase in the Tax Plan 2018. In fact, I said earlier that I had an understanding of that and indicated that if there was an initiative from the Chamber, I would be prepared to look at what was possible. This amendment has now been announced. In the meantime, there has already been good consultation with the sector. It may be clear that I would like to leave the judgment to your Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 29 on the exclusion of Hillen cases from the own house tariff measure. Mr Van Rooijen has submitted these, as we could expect. The purpose of this is that the deductible costs of an own house can be paid at a lower Ib rate than the table rate. This amendment then excludes the so-called 'Hillen cases' from this scheme. The measure leads to a loss of 0.7 million in 2018 which amounts to 4.5 million in structural terms. The calculation was based on the current legislation. This is then covered by reducing the maximum working discount by €1. Our comment is that the Hillen case measure included in the amendment prevents taxes on own homes from being paid on a net basis. That is contrary to the proposal in the coalition agreement in which we phase out the Hills Act. It is clear that we are therefore also not recommending this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u283	The Secretary of State is aware that this is the amendment tabled by the CDA in 2013, at least at about that time, and recently, in July, was submitted with a letter to Secretary of State Wiebes. In view of the minimal budgetary aspects and the fact that the CDA was in the opposition at the time, is that not a reason to reconsider your assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u284	I know from an earlier intervention by Mr Van Rooijen that it was. I hadn't thought of that myself, but I'm afraid this time it doesn't affect my judgment. That is not because I am not sensitive to what you say or because I always hold on to my judgment, but in this case I think that the line chosen by the government is more sensible than the line chosen in this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u285	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u286	Then we are in favour of Amendment No 2. 31 on the temporary increase of the energy load via the fourth disc. GroenLinks proposed and tabled this amendment. The aim is that the temporary increase of the energy tax by 200 million in the years 2018 and 2019 is not collected in all consumption discs, but only in the fourth disc. The energy agreement provides for a fifty-fifty distribution between companies and households. Mr Snels probably knows that too. In this way, the legislative proposal that we have tabled has also been designed. However, this amendment will bring the increase down completely to business. This would also violate an agreement under the Energy Agreement. We don't want that, if only because the fourth disc is quite narrow and the effects are very large. Think of an increase in the electricity price by 30 times, to name but a few. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 32 on the extension of the reduced VAT rate for certain medical devices. This was also tabled by Mr Snels. This measure extends the reduced VAT rate for medical devices presented in a pharmaceutical form, is considered as a medical device and bears a CE marking. One comment is that, contrary to what Mr Snels says in the amendment, the budgetary loss of the amendment is at least 12 million. However, because of the enormous uncertainty about the demarcation, the upper limit of this amendment is much higher. It is estimated by us at 106 million. As a result of this uncertainty, the measure is estimated at a structural loss of about 59 million, approximately in the middle. That is therefore substantially higher than the sum of 12 million referred to by Mr Snels. With the proposed enlargement, the delineation discussions on this subject will again be much closer to meeting the non-qualifying drugstore products, including cosmetics and care products. We don't want that. We had specifically proposed this differently. Moreover, the coverage in the amendment is insufficient. That is why we must also discourage this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then we are in the amendment on the reduction of the first rate of income tax, tabled by Mr Snels. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 43; that was 33, but I understand that it is now 43. It means that the rate of the first share of income tax will be reduced by 0.14% to 8.76% in 2018. If coverage is then thought to increase the rate in the fourth disk by 0.5% compared to the base path. Yeah, it's hugely technical. That is a different design of how income tax and energy tax do it. We thought that the package submitted by the coalition was a little more balanced, to be honest. This distribution of purchasing power was not the intention of the cabinet either. In addition, there are a number of other problems relating to the steeper phasing-out of the general tax rebate. This is again bad for employment, which is something we really do not want to see, and therefore also creates a high marginal pressure on middle incomes, as I say very specifically. We do not want that, and I can imagine that Mr Snels does not want that either. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. I come to Mrs De Vries' amendment to item No. 34. on "I knew" or was supposed to know "I didn't know." It is asked whether the European case-law gives rise to a phrase which was or should have been used to add a sentence to the legal text. The amendment, however, reduces the yield. It is still a little unclear how much of the estimated structural yield could not be achieved in that case. The case law put forward looks at other situations and does not give rise to any need to amend the legislative text. I think we want to say above all: it doesn't add anything. On the other hand, we know that the measure would make things quite complex and less effective. For that reason, it doesn't really help, but it does make things more complex and we advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u287	Just for my understanding, there's no cover, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u288	I think it was unclear what the result of the adjustment was. I believe, but don't forget that for a moment now, that it was budgetaryly neutral. But apart from the cover, we just don't think it's desirable to do it like this. Mrs De Vries tabled the amendment to item No. 35 to the bill. This concerns the cancellation of the proposed rate increase of the gambling tax by 1.1%, by 1 January 2019. As we know, the temporary increase in the rate of gambling tax is necessary to cover the budgetary loss due to the delay in the Koa bill in the same domain. The expiry of the tariff increase is therefore linked to the effective entry into force of the Koa Bill. This is expected to be 1 January 2019. Unfortunately, since it cannot be ruled out that the Koa Act will come into force later, the bill does not now include a hard deadline but only a link to the Koa Act. The adoption of this amendment would mean that we would provide the law with cover for one year and not the following years. This means that, if it is not yet a law, we will have to find new cover over the next few years or at least the next year. I don't think that's very desirable. On the other hand, I also understand the arguments put forward earlier in the legislative consultation. That is why I should like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. I come to the amendment to item No. 42 by Mr Van Raan, on introducing a second reduced VAT rate for fruit and vegetables, with coverage. Fruit and vegetables are already excluded from the general rate, I note. Consumers may not benefit from this reduction. I've just mentioned what's often the basis of that. Apart from that, the Tax Administration, I think, is absolutely right, thinks that it will be very complex to maintain, for example to find out exactly where there is still a grape juice in it and what can be a fruit product. The same is true of all the discussions that we may have about meat and meat products, for example: once meat oil has been used in a product and it has not been given up, it will be subject to tax. In short, it's really very difficult to check that out. Especially in view of the low expected effectiveness of the measure, I must advise against the amendment, although in a way I can understand it. Mr Van Raan had tabled another amendment, No. 37, in order to increase the rate for meat products to 21%. I have actually already given the answer to the previous question. It is very difficult, if not impossible, to make this demarcation and have it checked. In addition, we expect this to result in a significant administrative burden on business. We are also afraid that the reduction of emissions in the Netherlands is not that great. In my view, the PBL also came up with such a conclusion. I have done my best to give a number of reasons why we do not recommend this amendment. I shall continue with the amendment to item No. 39 by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. He would like to increase the tariff step in the Vpb from two tons to three tons. The cost of the measure will then be covered by further raising the effective rate of the Innovation Box in the Vpb compared to the legislative proposal to 10%. I think the most important story here is that Mr Nijboer clearly makes different choices than the cabinet when it comes to this Innovation Box and the tariff step. We thought an increase of 5% to 7% of the Innovation Box rate was better, so we advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u289	The Secretary of State advises against the meat amendment because it would be difficult to calculate or difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u290	For more reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u291	For more reasons. One of them is that it's hard to calculate. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that the amendment has been passed on? Apparently, the Tax Administration is able to name an amount and a price for what it would yield. In other words, technically the value can be determined. If that's true, so if you can determine the value and the increase, you can count on it. So there is a basis. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u292	In general, I think the following. Meat products are already being sold, only if you want to exclude them from the general rate. I have the cover here: this change leads to a budgetary return of... does it say 1,250 million or 1,25 million? It says 1.25 billion. That's calculated by someone, so I'm assuming a base was used for it. So that's true, I guess, otherwise you won't get to an amount. The Dijkgraaf amendment in part No. 41 concerns the introduction of an exemption from insurance tax for broad weather insurance. This measure leads to a budgetary loss of 4 million per year. A cover has been found, which I believe was sound. I see there's a print error in my text, so I'm gonna take a look at the most important elements of our story. The measure was limited in complexity and was included in the execution test. Moreover, the exemption overlaps significantly with EZ's subsidy scheme. The wide weather insurance is already subsidised by 65%. If the Chamber does not think that this is enough, it says here, the budget for the regulation can easily be increased. That is perhaps a more direct way of implementing it if there is such a desire. In any case, an exemption does not comply with the tax expenditure review framework. Yeah, we do. A tax issue is a widely used instrument, but it must not be simply applied. We have a review framework for that. This exemption did not meet that requirement. It was also anti-competitive between agricultural entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs. I have a number of other comments to make here, but you can already feel them coming: we do not recommend this amendment. When it comes to motions, it may be different, but we must really discourage these amendments. I come to the amendment to item No. 44 by Mr Van Rooijen to use two thirds of the WWZ value as the basis for the EWF instead of the full WWZ value. This also applies to the addition in the private use of the property. The increase in the corporation tax rate for the second tranche would then be 1.5%. The loss of income tax was 870 million and the cover was found in the Vpb increase which had a yield of 899 million. The comment that we would like to make here is that the own house rate is indexed annually on the basis of the indexing of the housing rentals and the average of the home value. Rising WMD values therefore have a decreasing effect on the EWF rate at annual indexation. In that light, it is therefore not necessary to consider the WPA value, which is the basis for the calculation, only for two thirds. This is actually already happening through the increase in the WWF value and the reduction in the EWF rate. Furthermore, the cabinet is obviously not in favour of an increase in the Vpb. We want to keep it attractive here in the Netherlands. We therefore advise against this amendment. I have an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer, which has now been adopted. Forty-five. It's about loan assistance. I would like to say straight away that this amendment does not in itself have proper coverage. At the same time, there is also a motion with a similar idea. I would advise against this amendment, but I would like to refer back to the arguments that go with it in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u293	As a financial spokesman, I do not like to be told that the coverage is not orderly. I have a structural coverage of 30 million on this. You will undoubtedly disagree, because that means that we reject the legislative proposal for holding companies. But that motion seems to me as covered as it can be. Because that's 30 million a year, and this one-off cost less than 30 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u294	I have to say, I'm getting this from the people who did all this. They didn't think the cover was orderly. They told me right away that there are a number of arguments for this. The motion that has been tabled on this subject will be put to the vote in a moment. Those were the amendments. It is said that, unfortunately, that is not an outstretched hand. That was the idea, the outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u295	But not to Mr Nijboer, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u296	Then we have amendments to other legislative proposals, namely the bill OFM. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Van Weyenberg. That amendment aims at the expiry of the suspensive effect of the tax opposition within three years. In short, we are being asked to do so. In fact, I have no comment to make. I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs De Vries' counter-proofing system is contained in the amendment to item No. 12. This is intended to reverse the deletion of the counter-proofing scheme when adjusting the calculation of the preventative profit in the case of internal use fees within the tax unit. Let me save you the article number. This amendment has no budgetary implications. However, I have a few comments to make, namely that the calculation of the prevention profit for internal use allowances within the tax unit without counter-proofing is already part of the current regime of the object exemption. In the absence of a tax unit, the object exemption also has no counter-proofing regime. It would therefore be strange to do this only in the situation of a fiscal unit. The measure proposed in the legislative proposal results precisely in a neutral and more balanced regime. The implementation of the two different methods next to each other naturally increases the complexity of implementation and control. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13 on the partially automatic suspensive effect of the opposition. That was tabled by Mr Snels. The effect is that the automatic suspensive effect of the opposition will only expire if the person liable for tax has instituted the opposition for two weeks or less before the sale. Then cover. It says here: NB the saving of the €350,000 bill concerns a saving in implementation costs. There is no budgetary revenue. There is therefore no need for this amendment to be covered. That's right. In practice, the automatic suspensive effect has become an improper possibility, as I said earlier this evening, to delay recovery. I have looked seriously at Mr Snels' interim solution and presented it to the Tax Office and the state attorney. Both indicated that the improper use of this amendment, unfortunately, continues to pay off, because it can be expected that the debtor will object earlier, that he will quickly take that step by doing it earlier, so that he can prevent the seizure himself. The debtor may also continue to enforce a delay by means of an objection in the hope that the Tax Administration will not have sufficient time or capacity to prevent an application for interim relief. With the amendment, the tax resistance procedure deviates from the procedures in civil and general administrative law, as I said earlier, because they did not have suspensive effect either. I would therefore advise against the amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 on deferment simplified third-party attachment. Mr Snels has submitted it and wants to postpone a simplified third-party seizure to the legislative process around the seizure-free base for bank deposits in order to prevent citizens from enjoying the minimum right of residence in the event of a bank seizure. The amendment seems to assume that the proposed measure is an extension of the tax administration's bank attachment and would introduce a new element. This is a misunderstanding, I will continue to say here, because the IRS is already able to confiscate bank accounts at any time. The proposed measure really does not widen the herd. Even without this measure, the Tax Administration will continue to seize without a legally enforceable base. In that respect, the amendment lacks the aim. Moreover, there is no chance of simplification. As everyone in this Chamber knows by now, Mr President, I think that is an important element in everything that will be presented here in the coming years. Finally, the measure is also relevant for third parties liable for non-natural persons who are not subject to protective measures. For these reasons, I must advise against this amendment. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 15; that's the new number, I see. It is a question of abolishing the system of return to only foreign black savers. I say once again that I think it is just as important as you that bona fide taxpayers should be able to make a mistake and fix it without penalty. I have already said it twice before: this remains as harsh as possible after the withdrawal of the return regime. I can't say it any clearer. At the end of the day, I think Mr Omtzigt feels that I would find it undesirable if the abolition of the return regime were limited to black savers with only wealth abroad. There are more situations in which that happens, I have just said quite a lot about that. I would also advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 16 also belongs to Mr Omtzigt and deals with gift and inheritance tax and matrimonial property law. Its purpose is that if the prenupposition states that gifts and inheritances belong to the private property, they do not have to count for the so-called 50% limit. This is a budget-neutral amendment. I am critical of the expansion of other assets. I said this tonight and also very comprehensively in my letter of 16 November. Because partners can choose to include donations and inheritances without exclusion clauses in the excluded assets, much more planning opportunities are created. The amendment makes the scheme more complex, uncontrollable and sensitive to fraud. That is why my conclusion is that the amendment is difficult to implement and that is why we want to discourage it. In another amendment, in part No. 17, Mr Omtzigt proposed that the simplified third-party seizure of a KB be brought into effect as soon as it was possible for the Tax Administration to respect the duty-free foot in all bank deposits. That would be the moment you get the KB ready and hit as soon as the rest of you are ready. It is clear that I am in favour of introducing the measure as from 1 January. Postponement of introduction does not lead to better protection of the herd-free foot. That's sometimes suggested, but that's not gonna happen. Moreover, this does not achieve cost savings for the debtor and the Tax Administration. I'd be sorry to hear that. However, I would like to change the batterless foot as soon as possible. That is also what I said. I've already started an investigation into this. I will inform the Chamber in the course of 2018. I've already said all that. At the same time, I say that I understand what the idea is to do it in one go. That is why I have just decided to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 18 is another amendment on matrimonial property rights, including Mr Omtzigt. His proposal is that the whole proposal on gift tax should lapse in matrimonial property law. Mr Omtzigt did not believe that the distortion of distribution would occur on a large scale and apparently felt that the potential disadvantages of the proposal outweigh the benefits. He is talking about a very high risk that gift tax will be levied accidentally or suddenly arise. If that were the case, there'd be an estimated yield. That's not true. The proceeds are nil. The majority of people marry by default in limited or general community with equal parts. This is not a gift on the basis of the proposal either. We have indicated that there are a lot of possibilities to prevent situations if they occur. Failure to continue the proposal would mean that there would be uncertainty and legal uncertainty about the impact of the gift tax on entering into and amending a social contract and prenup. The question is whether the tax structures can then be prevented. In short, I would advise against the amendment because it does not solve the current uncertainty and legal uncertainty at all and leaves the possibilities of construction for wealthy individuals completely intact. I am trying to keep pace and continue with the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Snels, on corporations. The aim is to provide for the expiry of the exemption from withholding tax for companies with limited liability companies to third countries with which the Netherlands has concluded a dividend tax agreement. The amendment leads to a revenue of 30 million in structural terms, as indicated earlier. Without the proposed extension of the withholding tax exemption for companies with limited liability companies, holding companies are treated more favourably than companies with limited liability. We do not want that, because that is a violation of the principle of equality. Moreover, there is a risk of State aid and recovery problems. I am repeating myself in a sense and will therefore also advise against this amendment. I'm getting to the motions. Shall I continue with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u297	Everyone's awake all of a sudden. The motions, yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u298	I hope that all handwriting things go well this time and that I don't read "Oil ball" while there was "Oil ball" systems. Here we go. The motion in part No. 46 asks the government to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u299	Mr. Ommzigt has another question. I'm sorry. I promised you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u300	I have two questions. The first question is whether, in two weeks' time, we can receive an overview of how many jihadists have received anything in the last four years. If that can be done in writing and I get the promise that it will come, then I am satisfied. My second point is a proposal. If the motions are simply commented on in writing, we can start with the next bill. I am looking at my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u301	Let's see if anyone would mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u302	I see that Mr Nijboer does not want that. Okay. I saw the Secretary of State nodding my first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u303	Yeah, that was a good one. That's a promise. I'll do it quickly; I don't have any long lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u304	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u305	The motion-Snels in part No. 46 is about the batter-free foot. The Tax Administration respects the tax..., the tax..., sorry, the seizure-free foot upon request. That tax has terms in which I continue to choke. I have undertaken to include this in the recovery guidance. I'll do that this year. If this motion can be interpreted in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion-Snels in part no. 47 on the performance indicators. The CBS is already using state-of-the-art indicators. Pension claims have also been included in publications before. That is why we do not recommend this motion. Then the motion Ronnes/Omtzigt in part No. 48. It's about converting mortgages into a mortgage with a lower monthly burden. I will try to respond as briefly as possible. In response to the identical motion announced and put to the vote last year, my predecessor, in reply to the questions put to the House, has given a detailed account of the advantages and disadvantages of such a product. It is not certain whether bonding in mortgage parts is in all cases so attractive to the consumer. The transfer of mortgage shares leads to a complex situation for the consumer, namely multiple multi-interest-rate mortgage agreements and perhaps even different mortgage terms. The consumer incurs notary costs for this. The consumer has to pay these costs directly, while the benefits of lower interest charges often only occur gradually. That is why we do not recommend this motion. In part No. 49 the Omtzigt has submitted a motion on solutions that should be sent to the Chamber in the first three months of 2018. The loan assistance solution costs 17 million, including implementation costs. This cost expenditure money, which unfortunately we cannot cover with fiscal measures. As proposers propose cover, I'm prepared to implement it. A logical moment for this could be, as far as we are concerned, the discussion of the SZW budget. I leave the judgement to the Chamber, once again making it clear that we cannot afford to finance what is done in an expenditure scheme. Judgment Room. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 50. It's about substance requirements in letterbox constructions. If we can read the motion in such a way that it fits in with the commitment I made to Mr Nijboer on this subject in the General Financial Reviews, namely that I come up with a fiscal policy agenda in which I take all this with me, I would say: I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u306	Something unusual just happened. The government left the verdict on a motion to the Chamber, while that motion is not covered. Now the government is free, but it is quite unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u307	What number was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u308	Item No. 49. I would like to ask whether it is the general line of the cabinet that no one in this Chamber needs to worry about the coverage of motions anymore. That would save us a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u309	As Mr Dijkgraaf will be aware immediately, that was not the thrust of what I said. I said it costs spending money. We cannot finance this. In a way, I could discourage the motion, but I was trying to find some kind of outstretched hand: if you know how to find cover in a budget, I would like to carry it out in fiscal terms. That's why I think I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. It's not about the uncovering of motions. I've been working on the Treasury too long to like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u310	If I understand correctly, it's just the usual line. If there's cover, a motion will be made. If there's no cover, it just won't be run.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u311	I'd like to add something to that. Quite apart from the question of whether the coverage is sound, I might sometimes have reasons why I find a motion of censure to be fiscally undesirable. In fact, I say in this case: I do not think this motion is fiscally undesirable, but there should be cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u312	That is a remarkable hand from the government to the coalition parties; I have to say that. Wouldn't it be the most pure form of holding such a motion and then making sure that you take care of it in the Social Affairs budget? There is also an amendment with proper cover, which was said to be: well, we are not going to go into that, because I still have an opinion on the motion. And that judgment isn't really a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u313	I could have done that, but I actually wanted to do my best to explain that I thought it was fiscally okay, but that, of course, there was still some sort of budget coverage to be found. After all, it was expenditure money. That's all I want. Mrs Leijten would have preferred the motion to be held. You could have. But I tried my best on this motion, just as I tried my best on the motion in part No. 50 by Mr Leijten on substance requirements. I said: if I may read the motion as I did, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Then there is another motion by Mr Leijten, which is in part no. 51. It calls on the government to have the effects of abolishing the dividend tax examined by an independent party. This motion I must advise against. It seems to us that there is still ample opportunity to return to that in the debate on the legislative proposal. In our opinion, this does not give any new insights either. We have, I think, put forward enough about this. We advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I've already gone into it a little bit. I have also said that anti-smoking policy is not entirely my domain. So I should talk to the U.S. Secretary of State about that. This might be a good thing to say that my advice would be to hold the motion until the VWS budget is discussed. If we were to do this here, without any cover, I would have had to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u314	I am a little surprised because I feel that this motion increases revenue and expenditure on both sides and that it does not fit in with our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u315	Perhaps my words are not parliamentary enough in these things. What I'm trying to say is I'm not about this. Looking at this motion, I would say: I dissuade him, because he is not right. At the same time, I thought I'd just understood that you might be able to say this sort of thing: then hold it until a moment when you can find real cover on the expense side. That would be in the VWS budget. That is why I thought: let me put that right. In doing so, my advice would be to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u316	I'd like to do that, but then there's a question. Suppose they come to the conclusion of the VWS budget: yes, there will be an addiction fund and yes, we are going to fill that up and we are going to take the increase in excise duty on smoke. The question then is whether they can decide there. Here we are dealing with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u317	I get that. That's always a bit of a problem when motions confuse two things. At some point, you need to get in there. Here too, it is possible to increase excise duties further in fiscal terms. If you want to allocate that money to a fund, I can imagine that not a lot of people will be happy with another separate fund, as I said before. But if there is any real interest in it from the U.S. Department, I could imagine that would have the cover for it. Hence the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u318	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u319	It is, of course, the intention that the increase that is being made with us should go to that fund and not, in order to remove any confusion, that there should be an increase. I'll hold the motion. Then they can discuss this with VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u320	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (34785, No. 52). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u321	The motion in part No. 53 asks the government to set up a contact person for foster parents and guardians with the Tax Administration. We've been cake-making for a while about what's convenient. For each group that has something, each time a separate contact is difficult to set up. Then, for example, we should also have a separate contact person for foresters and farmers. I think that's a lot. At the same time, I understand what is being asked here. In fact, the idea was that we should just engage actively with these youth organisations to see what we can do to make it clear, for example, by setting up a website just like for frontier workers. In short, we would like to do something with this, but at the same time I would like to be a little careful to have a contact person everywhere. That's not quite the system we have. So we could do two things. I would advise you to hold the motion until I come forward with a letter on this matter. Then I'm gonna talk to these people first, then I'm gonna write a letter and we're gonna talk about that. That would be my proposal right now. We'll hold the motion until my letter arrives, for example in the first quarter of next year. Then I've talked to these people and we'll see what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u322	Mrs. Leijten, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u323	I am quite prepared to hold the motion, also because I see here the willingness to find a solution. I don't care if that's a contact, a web page or a hotline. As a chamber you do not necessarily have to deal with the execution, if the bottlenecks that exist are solved. All of this reaches us once or twice a year and the organisations have sent a letter about this for a reason. If the basic attitude is positive to solve this, so it gets easier to find your way, then I can also withdraw the motion. Then I see this as a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u324	So you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u325	No, I can also withdraw the motion if we agree that this is the basic position and that we will be informed in January or February, when that consultation has taken place, and then discuss it further. Then I can withdraw the motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u326	That's what I'm telling you. We go into consultation and in the first quarter we come with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u327	Let me get this straight, Mrs Leijten. Do you withdraw your motion to part No. 53 in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u328	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u329	Since the Leijten/Omtzigt motion (No ) has been withdrawn, is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u330	I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 54, which calls for more insight into the cost of sustainability. Can the Cabinet clarify how many citizens and companies actually contribute to the greening? was the thrust. I thought that was an understandable question. The Council of State has already made this recommendation. We must of course do this together with the Minister of EZK, as soon as we have a little insight into the measures. For the demand for economical and less economical housing, I may have to fall back on example homes. I'm sure I won't be able to satisfy everyone, but I think that's the best we can do. This is what we would like to leave to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 55 about abuse of the rent allowance is also about the cash round, which has been discussed here several times. I am now very afraid to speak because this is a matter for another ministry, but this is really the policy of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There will soon be a budget debate on the Living section and I really think it would be better to hold the motion until then. If that didn't happen, I'd have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u331	I think there really is a tax component in it, because there is also a gift. That really doesn't belong to BZK; they can follow the same reasoning there. But I'd like to continue the motion until the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u332	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (34785, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u333	Well, I didn't quite control that, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u334	No, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u335	In the motion in part No. 56 on tax evasion calls on the Court to examine what parts of the Tax Administration could be invested more so that this would lead to more revenue. I think it is really wise to hold this motion as well. I promised earlier that I'd come up with a business case about this. In fact, I believe I promised a letter in January, not in the first quarter, but in January. I therefore request that the motion be held until that letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u336	We do get another letter about the IRS. I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u337	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (34785, No. 56). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u338	The motion in part No. 57 on the digital economy calls on the government to consider how to adapt the tax system so that digital services can also be taxed in a reasonable way. It is, of course, always an encouragement for the Tax Administration to involve something in taxation. It doesn't happen to us that often. I think it is best that I address this later on in my fiscal policy agenda. I also assume it's the intention to put it in there. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 58 on the agricultural regulation, with many considerations. I have a few things. I think I've said something about this before. It is very important that I make it very clear, as I am told here, that, on the basis of the existing rules, a farmer can already apply to the inspector for an annual VAT return. So it's possible. One of the conditions for an annual declaration is that the taxable person pays less than €1.883 in VAT per year. This request should be submitted in mid-February 2018 for implementing technical reasons. However, I am not in favour of extending the existing possibility of making an annual declaration in general. I just described the small business arrangement. This is where everyone can do it. I'm really not open to that. The reason for this is that the limited authorisation of an annual declaration is mainly intended to prevent VAT fraud. With VAT carousels you need a quick insight into what is happening. The whole system has been adapted to that. If we are going to allow this enlargement for farmers, we know, on the basis of the principle of equality, that we must also allow it for all kinds of other groups; groups where the risk of this VAT fraud is likely to be greater than that of farmers. Moreover, there are, of course, budgetary consequences that should be covered. For that reason, I also advise against this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u339	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for complimenting farmers. I am sensitive to this principle of equality, and I also notice that I may have some difficulty with it in the Tax Administration. I suggest that I hold the motion now and think about this in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u340	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (34785, No. 58). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u341	In the motion in part No. 59 on the difference in the tax burden between one and two earners, we are asked to start reporting standardized. For this purpose, the report on one and two-earners has already been included in the SZW budget every year. Purchasing power is an overall picture; this is only a part of it. The fine thing about this SZW report is that it shows all these parts intrinsically. My advice would be to keep the motion until the SZW budget, because it explains all these things. If it turns out that you want a different standard report, it is best to do so in that budget. So hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u342	That's your advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u343	That would be my advice, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u344	Mr Bruins, you have until tomorrow for the votes, unless you have already made a decision. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u345	I wonder if the Secretary of State will also have a verdict if I do not hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u346	Then I'll tell her off, because I'll find her superfluous. I don't know if I can still use that word, but there's already a report on that. I wouldn't advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u347	Needlessed motions are indeed not recommended here. Then I'm gonna think about what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u348	That's good. Then the motion to part No. 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u349	The motion in part No. 60 concerns exemption from VAT for fruit and vegetables. This is simply not effective, as demonstrated by recent CPB research, and leads to complexity. I'm going down the bend for a short time, but that's why I'm not telling her. Then the motion to part No. 61 on the differentiation of energy taxation towards environmental damage. The energy tax is a European harmonised tax. Unfortunately, an output tax does not allow this type of adjustment. An input tax would do that. We do this through the CO tax. Anyway, that's not what this motion is about, so I'm gonna have to dissuade her anyway. Then we get the motion in part no. 62 on the progressive structure of energy taxation. Indeed, it now has a declining tariff structure. If we convert them all the way to a progressive tariff structure, this will lead to enormous effects in prices. This also has to do with the fact that business simply depends on the price level of this kind of thing in other countries. So, because of large redistributing effects between citizens and businesses and the competitive disadvantages for our business, we want to equate this, if we do it, only at international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u350	The Secretary of State is right that it has enormous effects. That's exactly what it's supposed to be. The motion doesn't ask for it to be passed on. She's asking to investigate, because that's never actually happened before. The request is therefore not for it to be carried out, but for it to be examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u351	I read her something else. So the request is to really investigate it alone. I don't really see the added value of that. If we were to move from a degressive structure to a progressive structure, that would be a huge blow, and that is not what this cabinet is for. So I don't think an investigation into that makes any sense either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u352	Please continue with the motion in part No. 63.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u353	The motion in part No. 63 deals with the polluter's pay-as-you-go principle and calls on the government to introduce a flight tax. I am therefore very pleased with this motion, because it underlines what we also want to do. We do not think that the best method is to introduce it at this point in time. That is simply not feasible, of course, and that is why we do not recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 64 calls on the government to examine the opinions contained in the Fiscal Greening report and to present them in a roadmap by 1 March at the latest. I have a bit of a procedural reaction to that. We're going to investigate the PBL report. The cabinet has already given a letter to the Chamber on this matter. However, we await the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the report, which also intends to write a report on it. In the form she is now in, I would therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u354	Let's talk about the previous motion, the one about the flight tax. I hear the Secretary of State say that this is not possible, but I thought we had just established, in the previous periods, that it was possible, because it has already been implemented once, but that it is in time. I hear the Secretary of State now saying it's not possible. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u355	You mean the flight tax? No, it's not possible to enter it immediately. No, not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u356	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u357	The legislation is already in place, but it is a second one as soon as it is introduced. Okay, the motion to part No. 65 calls for research into how energy taxation at the production and consumption stages can make a direct link between resource use and environmental damage. Actually, this is a bit the same as the previous motion. We now have all sorts of wonderful new reports before us. The cabinet will return to that. Actually, I've already agreed to that. On the other hand, this motion calls for no more than this to be examined, so I would leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion at No. 66, which requests exemption from energy taxation through energy use as a raw material. I can also be brief about this, a bit in line with the motion or two years ago: this has enormous effects on the costs of energy consumption in the Netherlands. This would lead to a huge competitive disadvantage. So I'd also like to advise against this one. The motion in part No. 67 deals with the differences between the one- and two-earners and calls for further reduction and identification of feasible options, and moves to the order of the day. This is where I accidentally read a little too far. The coalition agreement sketches a purchasing power picture. Oh yeah, sorry. We barely had time for this. This is the story. We know the statue's coming. We're already doing a lot in the coalition agreement. We have made all kinds of plans there that are also balanced in the purchasing power effects. We indicate that the differences between one and two earners are greatly reduced. In fact, as I said earlier in the debate today, we believe that this research does not contribute to this. So I'm deceiving the motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u358	This is a separate place. Several of Mr Van Raan's motions have been dissuaded because the Secretary of State said: we are not getting into this. One not, which he said, well, that might be something. If the Secretary of State advises this motion, he says: "Don't ever, we're not going to do anything about this cabinet period in relation to the basic path for the single-earners." That is a clear message, completely contrary to the Prime Minister's message to the General Reviews and to the Minister for Finance in the General Financial Reviews. It said: the door is ajar, come and talk; we see the problem, but we don't know how to solve it yet. I'm not asking for proposals. I'm not asking for policy choices. I simply ask for options to be mapped out. You can close that door today, Secretary of State. It's okay. But it's locked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u359	Unity of government policy means, in my opinion, that in the Trêveszaal the door is just open. That's really nothing but what the Prime Minister says. In fact, I think I said in the debate this afternoon that if reality changes or you come to new insights, you should always be open to that. You shouldn't push things away right away. Here it is very clear that it is about identifying feasible options for a little further reduction, for the summer. That's so strong in purpose. That is no longer academically open to each other's arguments with common sense. This really is a policy wish. I have less of that policy wish, because I think this coalition agreement is already doing quite a lot. That's why I advised against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u360	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u361	I can respect that in itself, but we in the SGP Group are not waiting for occupational therapy in the Trêveszaal. Well, you're always welcome. The door's ajar. Come talk to me sometime. The coffee's ready and a cake with it. You'll get a cookie and a tissue for the poverty gap. I don't think that's how we should hang out in this house. I think the Secretary of State can close that door, but just shut it. Or he'll keep it open, but then he'll have to say, yes, of course, we'll see what kind of options there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u362	I feel a nice De Dijk-number coming up over doors that close and open. I don't think the black and white of being close or open fits the story I told myself. I think you should be open to new insights at all times if you come to that by new information. We were talking about the letters. So that door doesn't close to me. We're talking about the door to the Trêveszaal on a crack. This motion goes way beyond that. I indicated that for that reason I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u363	Please continue. Final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u364	Yes, the final motion. That's motion in part No. 68 of Azarkan's member's request that the Innovation Box be evaluated not in 2022 but already in 2020. Once again, the Innovation Box was already in 2016 read: last year evaluated. In my opinion, asking for a new evaluation within a year makes no sense and is not going to produce new insights. There is also really not enough material available to do so with a certain added value. For that reason, I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u365	I may count differently from the cabinet, but if you evaluate something in 2016 and then in 2020, then there's four years in between. You're not going to tell me that you're only ordering the next cabinet to evaluate part of the policy you're maintaining?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u366	That's not true. In my opinion, the 2016 review, still under the previous cabinet, agreed that it should be done in 2022. Once again, I see no reason to speed up that process. It doesn't solve any problems. We do not suddenly have better information to come to new judgements. So this evaluation doesn't add much to me, if only because you just don't have that much information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u367	That is clear, but the Secretary of State does not have to state that this will be reviewed in two years. I think that's just factually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u368	I think it will be evaluated in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u369	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u370	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u371	Thank you. That concludes the debate on the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-8.u372	The motions and amendments will be put to the vote tomorrow. You may sit down again, for I shall suspend for a few moments and then we shall proceed.
