ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Medical Care and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport in trade-K. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen and the people in the public gallery. The next item is the budget debate on Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Agema as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. The nursing home isn't anymore. The fact that you're an elderly person at some point registering for a leaning home at the nursing home in your own neighborhood, that's not anymore. Until then, many pensioners volunteered at the nursing home, that's not anymore. That beginning demented people in the nursing home could go to the day-use, so that the carers could arrange other things, that's not anymore. That old people from the neighborhood could eat in the nursing home or put a ticket, too, that's not anymore. That at your first flaws you could start to live in a shelter, that's not anymore. That if things got worse, you could move into the neighboring nursing home, so there was always someone around in the department who could keep an eye on things, that's not anymore. That from the nursing home where you could or couldn't live with your partner, you were professionally and sweetly admitted to the nursing department for you lately, too, that's not anymore. Nowadays, the elderly report themselves almost deaf, almost blind, past the stage of starting dementia long ago, in a wheelchair but also often bedridden at the door of the nursing home, while it has not been home for a long, long time. Many are on a waiting list for months and months. In the nursing home they stay on average for the last eight months of their lives. Our nursing homes have become death homes. They supposedly wanted that themselves, the elderly, was the constantly repeated lying mantra that destroyed a carefully constructed system of care for the elderly in decades. Ask a starting demented older person where he prefers to live. Of course he's yelling: home! But what if he's gonna rot at home, leave the gas on, wander down the street, die at the bottom of the stairs after a fall, with a button around the neck while he's forgotten what that's for? And what he'll be billed for if he pushes it too often. I don't think so! No, they had to. That's the honest story. A vulnerable system of care for the elderly had to be destroyed, from Brussels, from Rutte II, from Van Rijn, from the Labour Party, from the VVD, but also from the CDA, from the Christian Union and from GroenLinks. With the 2013 budget agreement, better known as the Kunduz Accord, it was decided to stop funding the care homes acutely in 2013 and 2014. Under Rutte II, so much has been broken down, the seven steps of care for the elderly were destroyed and cut up over three laws. The housekeeping was halved, the neighborhood care and community care were reduced. More than 65,000 nursing homes were lost. Seventy-seven thousand people were fired from care. At a time when we are only getting more elderly and more people are getting sick, this is hard to understand. Our senior citizens have been taken incredibly hard, and only to look more artificially like our neighbouring countries, to comply with Brussels May 2014 letter, to address macroeconomic imbalances, to make a living abroad. Bloody hell, Chairman! Our elderly, our elderly, they were not feared. They wouldn't fill the Malieveld. They could easily be sacrificed on the Brussels altar of unity politics. And that makes me furious to this day, I say very clearly in the direction of Mrs Dijksma. If only it was staged, it wouldn't hurt so much. I wouldn't have that feeling of disgust. And if the former PvdA Secretary of State had been honest, you could have just disagreed with him. But he wasn't fair. Until the very last time he insisted that the elderly themselves wanted to live longer at home, and that trend had been going on since the 1980s. And now for the plans of the Christian Union on behalf of the new coalition for an old-age settlement, because they want to make it possible for the nursing home to move between home and home. An intermediate form between home and the nursing home! Let's see. Ah, the nursing home! Oh, the Christian Union! Savior of the patriarchy, five years after the Kunduz chord, when the calf has long and wide drowned and been buried, dampen the pit! Oh, oh, oh, dear Christian Union, is it mantra that elderly people themselves wanted to live at home for as long as possible and didn't want to live in a nursing home themselves, didn't they? Or are you tired of the PVV reminding you? I don't understand. We have asked you so many times over the past five years to withdraw your support for the closure of the nursing homes, but you did not. And now that the spoils are inside, the Christian Union is sitting on the plush, it suddenly becomes like the Christian Union wants something. Shameless! Does the Christian Union also provide money? No. But also D66 managed to get a news item in the newspaper on behalf of the new coalition. Suddenly they ask for an exploration, so that the care stays at home of good quality. That's so vaguely described because D66 doesn't make any money. No, they supported the structural austerity of EUR 600 million on community care. D66 also supported the Kunduz agreement and the autumn agreement. D66 also left the cabinet where it was. Also D66 has the booty inside. And now they're coming up with a recon, not money. Then let me immediately deliver money, Mr President, structuralally and concretely. I have tabled an amendment to reverse the halving of domestic aid. The EUR 610 million needed for this is covered by the abolition of the expat regime. Rather money for our elders than foreigners bacon, I think. I'm counting on your support. And then there's the cost of care, while we're talking about money. There was an unjustified panic in 2012 about rising healthcare costs in order to destroy care for the elderly. Completely unrealistic doom scenarios of the Central Planning Bureau that we would have lost half our income of care in 2040 were later withdrawn. But the damage this has done is enormous. Many people, including journalists, reporters and, yes, even politicians, still believe that it is true today, even though it is bullshit. The Central Planning Bureau had assumed in a consciously chosen doom scenario that between 2012 and 2040 healthcare costs would increase by 4.4% per year and GDP by 1.7%. In reality, according to the same Central Planning Bureau, healthcare costs increased by 0.9% in 2015 and 2016. That's five times less. This has actually been realized. These are real figures. This is the truth. The forecasts for the shorter period have also proved to be false, quite false. The Ministry itself thought that the cost of care would increase by 18 billion euros over the last period under Rutte II, it became 4.5. That's a lot of money, but it's a quarter of what was thought. Ergo, since 2013, it has been reported by VWS year in, year out of major billions. EUR 68.8 billion will be spent on care this year. That's a lot of money, but it's not EUR 95 billion. It's not a cuckoo boy. It's no reason to destroy the care of the elderly. But new hysteria is being grown. Take a look here, Mr. Chairman. I am now holding up the publication The State of Health in the EU, of the European Commission, an incredibly important body. What they're saying has just happened here for the past five years. Turns out what? A new doom scenario is called over us: The Netherlands scores again very bad. But if you're going to look, you see that table from 2015 is based on previous information, so based on the situation before lifting the AWBZ. But it does say "November 2017" on this cover. If that's what you think it is: I have the blue book here, given to you all by the Ministry of Finance. Also here is a table, on page 56, in which we as the Netherlands do not stand out very well. But here again the old data for abolishing the AWBZ, while it says "October 2017." There's hysteria being grown and stirred up and we're standing by. We're all there. Don't get me wrong: I don't want the cost of care to be too high. No, if you're sick, you pay the most. But if it is thought behind desks that care for the elderly must be destroyed, and now, and that closing the nursing homes will bring money and if it is then carried out acutely and mercilessly, I cannot believe that the waterbed effect caused by this will not overflow the other side. Why? If eight residents live together in a nursing home, you can share a lift. Everything is on the ground floor and the caretaker can take care of all residents and keep an eye on them in the meantime. Now eight elderly people live all over a village and, for starters, stair lifts are needed everywhere. The caretaker, nurse, counselor, household help and you name it, do not go to one house, but travel through all the different addresses. Some people open their front door for 32 different faces a week. Apart from the fact that this is horrible, it costs incredibly much money. So I'd say stop with the romantic picture about solexes. The reality is that district nurses are constantly rushing towards the next patient to be called "customer" and fewer and fewer colleagues. Due to the fact that the neighbourhood care, community care and guidance are still cut up in a lot of healthcare products with different rates, five minutes registrations are created. That's a waste of time and sin of money. If the Brussels slaves had simply said to Brussels 'we will solve this ourselves' and we had normally introduced the separation of living and care over a period of about ten years and they had gradually started paying rent in the nursing home instead of a huge own contribution, then there would have been some EUR 5 billion, which had been confirmed by the previous Secretary of State, of the long-term care budget, gone missing, without anyone losing their care. But there wasn't that patience. That is why I say: slaves of Brussels and hypocrites, you destroy your own system, let the elderly suffer, and all that for a white foot at Brussels, abroad, and now afterwards you pretend to want something back between home and the nursing home. The care is broken and the older one is left stale. The voter knew what to do with this deception and gave the Labour Party 29 seats less. You would expect to see former Chamber members of the Labour Party behind the wheel of a city bus. Hey, Labour Party! But no, not the PvdA elite. The outside parliamentary networks of the healthcare sector will take them in. Marith Volp became board member of V&VN, Otwin van Dijk became chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Patient Federation, Agnes Wolbert became director of the Dutch Association for a Voluntary Life Ending, Lea Bouwmeester became director of the Dutch Diabetes Federation and Martin van Rijn became chairman of hospital group the Reinier Haga Groep. These are just the former caretakers. I'm gonna tear care down, too. I'll get a nice job later. All madness on a stick, with the closure of the nursing homes also the neighborhood function of the nursing home was lost. I already described it. The situation as it is today is worrying. The emergency services are flooded by elderly people who cannot go back home, but who cannot, whether temporarily or not, go to a nursing home. One in ten confused people being picked off the street turns out to be dementing. Children are very worried about their parents and they hang their parents' house full of cameras to see if they're gonna turn off the gas and if they're gonna lock the door at night. It's funny, the technical gadgets, but it's too crazy for words. Those concerns are also entirely justified. See the increased reports to the fire department. Who wanted this again? The elderly themselves? Don't make me laugh. In the meantime, new initiatives are being sought under the heading "something between home and nursing home." Neighborhood care homes, care hotels, special emergency care for the elderly must replace the care homes that have been lost. What a capital destruction! Hasn't it been time to look into what it's gonna do if we reopened the nursing homes? Mr. Chairman. Rutte III. With the arrival of Rutte III there is a fresh wind blowing on the Ministry. As many as two ministers and one secretary of state have moved in, while we do not now have the three biggest post-war reforms on the agenda. That's a little crazy, but well... They're opting for standstill. Good! I fully agree with that. I sincerely believe that the sector is not waiting for any more system changes. However, it gives an expensive duty to thoroughly optimize existing systems and to show courage and courage as insurers, indicator counters or healthcare providers to take good initiatives. I sincerely believe that with fire and passion much is possible and that you must seize all the opportunities that arise, because rest does not mean that things are going well. There are dark clouds above the Ministry. It's not just "not dicks but brushing," but also "I'm saying what I think and I'm doing what I say," a quote from Pim Fortuyn. Mr. Chairman. The main concern is staff shortages. As good as all quality indicators are passed through, malnutrition, dehydration, fall, aggression, medication errors, a high absenteeism indicate a shortage of employees. Appropriate staffing is the top priority, both in nursing homes and in disability institutions, as well as in home care. The Hague must do everything in its power to achieve this. The new coalition boasts that it is going to invest EUR 2 billion more in the nursing homes, but that is not extra money at all. Another chatter trick! Under Rutte II 37,000 people were released from care and nursing homes and from all care 77,000. And now for the coming period, another 37,000? Didn't fire them! Surely it cannot be that the question of whether there are enough staff at a nursing home bed depends on whether our country is getting better or worse economically? That's not civilization, is it? You can't do that to the oldest people who can't do anything to improve their own situation, can you? Surely it is incredible that money is needed for such a minimal occupation standard somewhere in 2021, whereas that is not being achieved in the distance for the people who live there at the moment? Four years will pass before the total amount is available. What does the Minister say to the people who live there now, on average, eight months before their death? What's he gonna say to all those nursing home residents who aren't gonna live through that minimum occupancy standard? What does he say to the overburdened care workers now: continue for another four years? Or: in recent years you have flown out with bushes, but in the coming years you can come back again in picks? That's not how you treat people. The Minister hasn't even thought about the night care. There's a big shortage there too. We would like to make EUR 900 million extra available for this. That will take some time, but hopefully we will start getting the noses in the right direction. But the problem with too few employees is much bigger. Turns out, up to 2023, 190,000 extra care workers are needed. So there is 2 billion available for extra people in the nursing homes, but for the remaining more than 130,000 employees there is no money. That alone is a wage bill of EUR 4 billion on top of the EUR 2 billion for nursing homes. Ministers are now going around with the hat for support and plans that do not cost money. That is a credit to them and we will do our utmost to bring forward plans that can help. Because problems also offer opportunities and this is our chance to fight the overhead, the rules, the fraud and the waste. As a bonus, next to a lot more employees we get a care that is freed from this kind of mess. How then, perhaps you're wondering. We have already tabled an amendment to bring about an overhead standard. The average overhead is 13.1% according to the Berenschot definition in long-term care. The best performing institutions have an overhead between 5% and 7%. The amendment we tabled in the legislative process of the new Wmo said that the institutions below 7% could receive a workplace bonus. Former Secretary of State Van Rijn confirmed that this could yield EUR 1.8 billion. That's money we'd like to see more than 55,000 care workers for. How then, perhaps you're wondering. Since we have been represented in this house, we regularly present our overhead plan to allow employees who have accepted a management function in a higher wage scale over the years to perform an executive task while retaining their salary. This can and can be budget-neutral. When it comes to combating the regulatory burden, beautiful projects have been carried out over the past few years. I am talking about "In for care" of former Secretary of State Bussemaker, the PVV project experiment of low-level institutions, carried out by former Secretary of State Veldhuijzen van Zanten, and "Dignity and pride" of former Secretary of State Van Rijn. I would like to make sure that the scrapings mentioned in the coalition agreement will lead to new projects. It's time for action now. I have a number of concrete proposals to make. The five-minute registrations never disappear from the neighborhood care and health care if multiple products continue to be used for multiple rates. Reduce to four is pointless. That gives the exact same administrative burden. Please look at Neighborhood Care Netherlands. Neighborhood care and health care can cost hundreds of millions of euros less without anyone losing their care, while these professionals are freed from the yoke of administrating. Another suggestion. Under the Wlz, care gravity package 4 to 10 give access to the institution. The access is already an administrative job of yours. But once inside, for each increase, the entire circus must be completed for a higher package while the annual yield for a higherzzp is not that much higher at all. And since people live there on average for eight months, that's quite an administration circus. We are in favour of merging zzp 4 to 9 to one rate. Saves a blow to administration. Access can also be simplified. Put aside a request of 94 A4s by the indicative body and have the care institutions themselves indicated. Hang on to the principle of high trust, high penalty. In plain Dutch: anyone who cheats, feels that and ends up in the old system with red tape. And for the others: bye-bye administration. Mr. Chairman. If you don't know how big the fraud is, it doesn't mean you don't have to deal with it. Fraud detection in our country is low. Last time I asked, the inspection checked less than 1% of the pgb files. This raising is much more effective than harassing all pgb users with drawing rights, which does nothing against fraud because a false invoice was made there as easy as under the old system. Waste is about things that are wrongly lost: waste of products, waste of money. In order to combat waste, my colleague Karin Gerbrands' amendments on barcoding and the housing of the caregivers under the WNT have been adopted. Thank you for that, but more needs to be done. When it comes to waste, we also want to free the care of the cowboys who with dollar signs in their eyes care money, millions, completely legally lug their pockets to their own pockets via care-e.g. But more money is lost. We still see administration offices on industrial sites, expensive car parks and inappropriately grazed by interims: a loophole in the law. Finally. If you get a new minister, you're also gonna figure out what he's done in the past. As alderman in Rotterdam, Minister De Jonge sent a letter to combat the loneliness of older people to all 75-plussers. 8,000 were visited by volunteers. Fortunately, he sees that these things can really contribute to reducing loneliness. You can also see how people are doing. Do they need anything, like help in the household? This is what got me out of the heart. During the legal process of the new Wmo in 2014, I therefore tabled an amendment asking all municipalities to make annual contact with their 80-plussers. That amendment, of course, was not given a favourable opinion. It was dissuaded and rejected. I am therefore making this proposal again. I hope that the Minister will give us a positive opinion. Finally, Mr President. Yesterday we received a letter from the Secretary of State in which he wrote that he did not want to extend the deadline for the backpay scheme. The Chamber was pleased with the deal of former Secretary of State Van Rijn, but the execution failed. I would ask the Secretary of State to extend the registration date until at least after the general consultation on the evaluation of the backpay scheme. That is what we are going to do. It's the least he can do, isn't it? So let him not stop the notification procedure from 1 January next, but let it continue until after the debate we are about to have. I'm rounding up. There's a new wind blowing in the Ministry. I hope somewhere behind the clouds the sun shines. But fair is fair: a lot is broken. The challenges are great and politics is unbearable. We will continue our best efforts to make improvements. Care is ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u4	When I listen to Mrs Agema's speech, I hear she's taking everyone's weight. GroenLinks, the PvdA, the Christian Union, D66: they all get kicked. Those are the parties that come up with ideas and those that have also softened the cuts in the previous cabinet over the past period. But you can differ on the choices that have been made. It's okay. But I do blame the PVV for giving the impression that the PVV is going to save the care with a lot of extra investments. But when I look at the PVV's election programme, I see that the own risk will be eliminated, that the cuts will be reversed, but not that extra money will go to healthcare. The government agreement for the coming period states that there is a lot of extra money going to the care sector. And where, according to the PVV, should the money be taken from? Well, no art, no development aid, no innovation, no broadcasting, away with asylum seekers, no mosques. Then I think, too, that coverage isn't hard either. I understand that you may have a difference of opinion, but I do think that the PVV creates an expectation here without having proper coverage for it. And to be honest, there's not a lot more money going to health care either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u5	Well, that election program is from the summer of 2016. That was to update the budget surplus of EUR 13 billion. You could have spent that on the care, but you didn't. So we have 13 billion more compared to the 2016 election programme. Then you can come a long way with abolishing one's own risk. It doesn't all go to health care, but it's already covered there. Whatever's covered there is $2 billion. At first we thought the shortage in the nursing homes was at most 600 million. The maid's already in there. Keeping the last nursing home places open is already in there. What is more, I would like to point out here: part of that 13 billion extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u6	I therefore conclude that the election programme the PVV went on tour with is not really correct, because after that there has been a lot of moving insight and extra money. The point is that people can't control this and neither can we as a Chamber. There haven't been any credit transfers. So what does that even mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u7	Mrs Bergkamp, I always have a great deal of respect for you and your contributions, but you are really wrong. At the time when the electoral programmes came out, no party was aware of the budget surplus of 13 billion. The situation in our country has changed dramatically since then. So we can also do more and we also do a lot more...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u9	... even more so than reducing the risk and the care premium and all of you! What we are doing there is already a great deal more than you are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u11	That's a lot more than D66 does and what the coalition does at all. The coalition isn't doing anything. Its own risk doesn't go down at all while so many parties in the coalition promised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u13	And the extra money for the nursing homes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u14	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u15	...you'll be covered by cutting back on the hospitals. That's not even extra money! We have a lot of money. D66 doesn't have anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u16	Mrs. Agema, you were already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u17	... despite a huge improvement in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u18	Otherwise, I'll just let time pass, and that's at the expense of Mrs. Gerbrands. I give the floor to Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u19	Mr President, I hope I will keep it a little shorter. Mr. Chairman. For two years, the Netherlands had no answer to the medical question of patients with cystic fibrosis. Last month the Netherlands had no answer to the medical question of the in need Dirkje or Thijs and others with the rare muscle disease spinal muscular atrophy. Fortunately, yesterday afternoon we were informed that the Minister was able to reach an agreement, and I am referring to the middle minister, because we have two of them today. Greetings for this! But with this, the Netherlands does not yet have an answer to upcoming aid questions from patients with a rare disease for which innovative medicines have already been developed but are not yet in the basic package. "Patience. Wait. Hang in there. Keep hoping." That's all these patients get to hear, but every month or week they have to wait, their functions continue to deteriorate. Where they were still reasonably mobile at first, they are now glued to a wheelchair. Where they could go to school at first, they are now forced to go home and become isolated. Sometimes these patients find their way abroad, where they are treated out of compassion. France has such an arrangement, so does Belgium. There they have the "unmet medical need" procedure: a reduction in costs in the event of unrequited medical distress. The PVV Group believes that we should also have such a humanitarian arrangement. We propose the creation of a fund that can provide financial support to patients seriously ill and affected with the most urgent treatment needs. We believe that such a concession will not hinder negotiations with the manufacturer and that the amounts will in no way guide definitive pricing. Because, of course, the often absurdly high pricing has to be negotiated. Of course, we must call on manufacturers to be transparent about their costs so that we can reach real and acceptable prices, but let us not forget the patients in the meantime. They're the ones in need. In order to establish a fund for medicines for rare diseases, the PVV has tabled an amendment. In 2018 we will release 10 million one time and for the years after we want the Minister to supplement this fund with the savings resulting from the patent process. For all those in need and insecurity patients with a rare disease, I hope for broad support in this Chamber for this fund and, of course, I hope for a positive response from the Minister. On the subject of rare diseases, I would like to draw attention to a carrier test, because 1 in 600 babies in the Netherlands is born with a serious disease. Everyone carries one or more mutations in their genes for such a serious condition. The carrier does not suffer from this and often does not know about it, but if the mutation occurs in both parents, then the baby has a 25% chance of a serious disease. As we have previously committed ourselves to the NIP test to detect down syndrome, we are now committed to a carrier test, because let us be honest: this is far more serious diseases than Down's syndrome. However, carrier tests are offered to risk groups, for example to couples where a rare disease already resides in the family, but the point is that the disease is often unknown. 80% of children with cystic fibrosis are born in a family where the condition has not occurred before. An article on the desirability of introducing such a carrier test for cystic fibrosis in couples with a child's wish was already published in the magazine Huisarts en Wetenschap in 2005. It is now twelve years later, and that test is still not offered by standard, while a carrier test today can detect up to 50 different serious diseases. In order to promote the familiarity and introduction of carrier tests, we would like to propose a standard carrier test for IVF treatments. In the case of IVF treatment, only healthy embryos can be placed back. We found it particularly strange that a couple with two children with cystic fibrosis, both born from IVF treatment, had not been informed of such a carrier test. If they'd known, they'd have let them. The standard offering of the carrier test at ivf seems highly desirable and is also a step towards general screening of hereditary diseases when posed with a child's wish. We are curious to hear the Minister's response and ask him to take care of this. A few months ago, the media said, "More and more elderly people are dying from a trap." The number of fatal falls increases every year and the actual number is probably even higher than the 3,300 recorded, but the fall itself is rarely the cause of death. There's often a condition or disease that can be hereditary. It is necessary to identify the underlying causes, but that is far too little. Section or obduction is not applied by default. On the one hand, that is quite understandable, because next of kin do not see the point of it now that the person has already died and of course they do not want to see their family member cut open, but on the other hand this is very necessary and important for family members, because they too may suffer from a hereditary disorder. That doesn't just apply to the elderly. Young people also die without the cause of death being found out: 800 young adults die every year suddenly and unexpectedly, without proven illness or complaints. In about a third of these cases there is a serious hereditary heart or vascular disease. Here too, no standard obduction is applied. In order to help research into hereditary diseases one step ahead, we would argue that in the case of unexplained deaths, we should always take minimum DNA and have it examined. This is much less significant for the next of kin, as this can be done with blood collection or a skin biopsy and this can provide a lot of insight into the cause of death and whether it is hereditary. In the end, we will be able to prevent deaths. As far as I am concerned, this also fits in with the approach to avoidable mortality. We have recently heard the number of 1,035, but probably that number is also much higher, because we do not know it all exactly. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this and I would like to hear whether he sees opportunities to stimulate or facilitate DNA research. Mr. Chairman. Finally, three points that we have already raised: physiotherapy in rheumatic diseases, driver test and, of course, its own risk. The Healthcare Institute is currently assessing the application for conditional admission of physiotherapy to the basic package in rheumatoid arthritis. This is a time-consuming process and in our view is not workable. After all, there are almost 100 rheumatic diseases in total, and I hope that we will not have them all assessed by this route. Then we'll be ten years away. This really needs to be done more quickly and easily, especially as the additional packages are getting more and more undressed and fewer and fewer treatments are being reimbursed. There is no alternative route for a large patient group with a medical indication for physiotherapy. Now that a redesign of the conditional admission process has been announced, we believe that this is the time for the Minister to meet the rheumatism field. Is the Minister prepared to work with the patient associations and the Health Institute to achieve a faster and simpler admission path for all these 100 rheumatic diseases? I'd like a commitment. Mr President, I come to the second point: the driver test. Maladministration at health care institutions is still far too common. My colleague mentioned it as well. When I filed my motion for a driver test in 2012, I had something different in mind than is currently being carried out. I had in mind a test according to that of De Nederlandsche Bank, a mandatory test indicating whether directors are fit for their function and whether their reliability is beyond doubt. This test will then take place at the start of a function, but also if someone changes positions within the organisation, as well as if there are circumstances or facts that may give rise to re-examination. However, there was never such a test. There was a voluntary accreditation test, prepared and carried out by the caregivers themselves. Only six months ago, the NVZD, the club of care drivers, decided to make the test compulsory, because the number of drivers with accreditation remained very much behind. My question is: are all the directors members of the NVZD? If not, what happens to the other drivers in relation to the accreditation test? It is not until 2020 that all drivers must be tested. Does the Minister know how many caregivers are accredited now? 187. And how many drivers do we have? Maybe 2,000. We don't know. Perhaps the Minister could also state exactly that. But it's a mockery anyway. The PVV Group considers it necessary to have a mandatory driver test based on the model of De Nederlandsche Bank. And the Dutch Healthcare Authority as a supervisor must perform this test, not an interest club like the NVZD. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I come to my last point: its own risk. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development mentions access to care as a critical measure of the performance of the healthcare system. "Specially worrying" they call the extent to which financial considerations play a role in accessing care. Their latest report shows that 10.3% of care is avoided in the Netherlands. I think that is very much, especially when I see that in Germany it is 2.6%, in Spain it is 2.8%, in Sweden it is 3.9% and in England it is 4.2%. What do we have in a healthcare system if 10% doesn't participate because they can't afford it? In the eyes of the PVV Group, there is only one solution to this: we started the healthcare system without our own risk and we have to go back there. I shall table another motion on this matter. As a second best, I propose that all primary care be exempted from its own risk. Has the Minister examined this before? If so, I would like to hear what the budgetary impact is. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I have been looking at 2018 and not at the following years. Of course, the cuts in curative care are our concern. They're supposed to make 1.9 billion. I assume that this is mainly found in tackling fraud, waste and bureaucracy, in reducing the care for asylum seekers and in bringing all specialists into employment, but not in removing care or in shifting burdens to the patient. Perhaps the Minister can explain how he intends to achieve that amount. Isn't it true that if this doesn't work, the macro-management tool will be used? So then there's going to be a removal in the care. I would like to comment on this, plus an explanation of whether this 1.9 billion is linked to the investment in care for the elderly, or whether it is covered by it. I would like to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For many of us, our health is perhaps our most important asset. That makes it all the more understandable that people are worried about care. Will care still be there when I, my parent or my child need care? Can I choose who's helping me? And can I pay for care now and in the future? These are understandable questions, as far as we are concerned. The fact is that our concern is among the best in the world. We should be proud of that. We are quickly inclined to look at the things that are not going well and at the incidents. We sometimes create the picture in this room that care in the Netherlands is bad. That's not true. Our care is good quality and accessible to everyone. And every year, the basic package is expanded further. You can choose which doctor you want to help and which health insurance company you want to be a customer with. We should be especially proud of all those who work in care and who work day in, day out with heart and soul for those who need care and for all those who even go out in bad weather, such as the last few days, to provide that care. That's why we owe it to all those hard-working people in care to really work on one of the biggest frustrations of healthcare professionals: the amount of unnecessary rules and forms. On October 23rd, more than 90 healthcare professionals visited the VVD to tell them what could be better done in healthcare. In addition, this time again as an important point emerged. Some people say 30% of their time goes on forms. We don't think that's what we're supposed to do. So how is the cabinet going to complete the scrapings from the coalition agreement? As far as we are concerned, this should not be a non-binding exercise. Of course, the involvement of the healthcare professionals themselves is crucial, but concrete, measurable goals must also be formulated. How's the cabinet looking at that? Reduce the control pressure or disrupt the care not only needs to provide more hands on the bed but also less workload and more work fun. One of the biggest bottlenecks in care is the huge shortage of the right people. That's not just a problem with nursing care or ambulance care. Too often we see reports about this, for example about the shortage of general practitioners in Leeuwarden and the shortage of pediatricians at Scheper Hospital in Emmen. In the whole care we need people with the right drive, with the skills but also with the guts and the will to do things differently. We must encourage and support this from The Hague. In any case, we need insight into future patient flows, skills needed, regional differences and bottlenecks, in order to respond quickly to situations and to avoid problems. Last week, the debate on the labour market already discussed this in detail. We are therefore looking forward to the broad labour market agenda of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u22	I haven't been a spokesperson for very long, but when I hear this from the VVD Group, all I can think is, where do they get the guts from? Where do they get the guts to sneak around here about the workload in the care, while they themselves are responsible for 77.000 layoffs in the same care? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u23	It is clear that we have indeed had to take very difficult measures in the past period. We have had to take difficult measures, but I think we should look forward now. Where do we want to offer space? How can we reduce the workload? How can we deal with the rules? Of course, this has already started in the previous period. For example, we have already had a scraping session with the general practitioners. I think those are important things to pick up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u24	If Mrs De Vries were to go to home care, to community care, to the nursing homes, which are almost gone, and to the nursing homes, she would hear that they just need hands on the bed there. I'm sure she heard that too when all that care staff was here. They're understaffed, and they can't handle the workload anymore. The VVD is responsible for all those layoffs. How are they gonna get all these people back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u25	As I have already indicated, it is a problem for all parts of the care to get the good people and enough people. I am therefore pleased that the Cabinet is presenting a broad labour market agenda. That's gonna be a lot to ask. That's gonna ask a lot of questions. I will come back in a moment in my story on how, for example, you can arrange things from the second line in the first line. You can make arrangements about that. I think you should have a whole package. There isn't one solution or one measure you can solve the problem with. You really need to look at the whole package. You need to see if you can offer internships. You can also look at training courses for nurses for which a numerus fixus is now available. That is, of course, very strange in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u26	I suggest you continue, Mrs De Vries. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt, Mrs. Kooiman. I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u27	I have three interruptions, Mr President, so I would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u28	Yeah, but I actually want to agree with you guys that we're doing interruptions in two. But Mrs Aukje de Vries has just begun, so you will have the opportunity to interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u29	Then it's not done, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it in two next time. I would like to know something about Mrs De Vries. There's 1.9 billion in savings on the roll. Does it intend to ensure that this is not at the expense of the staff? That is what she has already led the way. At least let's make sure we keep the staff that's still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u30	I will come back to the main agreements in a moment. As far as I am concerned, we should focus on health-related agreements. Quality and accessibility are important to us. We have, of course, already discussed the district nurse in the General Political Reviews. We have said that we should not take measures in the district nurse. We need to look at, for example, the subject that you have been working on for a number of years, namely the management layers. I have just mentioned the reduction in the number of rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u32	Then I'm getting close to the point of concern. For patients we want to organize care as close as possible where it can. It'll be nicer for the patient. Care must also change with the changing demands and wishes of the people. The population is ageing and people want to live longer in their own environment. That's what care has to do with it. That's why we focus, among other things, on the movement of more concern from the second to the first line. This leads to care closer, but also to a reduction in the use of second-line care. We see beautiful examples of this in the country. It was recently announced that hospital Tjongerschans in Heerenveen will transfer the simple care from the hospital to the general practitioners for nine sick images. Hospital Tjongerschans, the 80 GPs in the region and De Friesland Zorgverzekeraar have signed a cooperation agreement for this purpose. Budget is also being transferred. One wants to go to care in the right place, at the right time and by the right people. Electronic care and innovation are essential. We also see good examples of this, for example making a heart video with an app or a smart app to detect signs of skin cancer. We would like to know from the Minister how he intends to implement the agreement in the coalition agreement to shift the second to the first line. How are the healthcare professionals involved and what are the best practices? Is the Cabinet prepared to come up with a plan of action? How is the cabinet going to promote and promote smart solutions for electronic care and innovation, so that effective interventions can be deployed nationally? Last year the VVD tabled an amendment on the health care program Hospital at Home, i.e. hospital care at home, partly based on the idea of caring close to the people. What is the state of play? When can the cabinet report on this to the Lower House? We want 2018 to be a year of not just more pioneers, but of the structural realisation of care close to the people. Can the Minister indicate which successful experiments will be used more widely in the coming year? Mr. Chairman. Of course, we also want to keep the care affordable. That is one of the great challenges of today and the future. In the coming years, expenditure will increase due to ageing, economic growth and the advent of often expensive new medicines and treatments. We want people to continue to have access to these future medicines and treatments. In the coalition agreement, therefore, we made ambitious agreements in relation to the conclusion of new basic agreements. The principle of proper care in the right place at the right time is leading as far as we are concerned. Key points are that the quality and accessibility of care remain at the level of care. We therefore want to focus on concrete care-related and financial commitments that need to be implemented. As a VVD, we do not want all these basic agreements to be considered separately, but rather in conjunction with each other. Only in this way will we be able to actually improve care and achieve results. How's the cabinet looking at that? Can the cabinet support this line of the VVD? Mr. Chairman. I mentioned earlier the development of new, often expensive medicines. We have discussed the medicines in detail recently. We think it is important for patients to be able to access necessary medicines more quickly. There are, of course, several possibilities for this, including shortening the whole approval procedure. The American Food and Drug Administration is also looking at that accelerated admission. How can this happen more quickly in the Netherlands and Europe, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u33	I would like to come back to Mrs De Vries' previous point, namely the affordability of care. Of course it is extremely important; so does GroenLinks. But I do miss the perspective of many people in the Netherlands for whom the affordability of care is a major problem. The SCP has just come with the report De sociale staat van Nederland. This shows that the gap is widening between healthy people on the one hand and sick people and people with disabilities on the other. My question to Mrs De Vries is therefore whether she sees this as a problem. Does she see it as a problem that the gap between these people is widening and that people who are sick or have a disability are becoming more and more difficult or sometimes just not able to pay for that care, which means that they are going to avoid it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u34	I think it does start with keeping the care affordable. I believe that we must ensure that the solidarity that is now in our system is also sustainable. That's why I think you should take a balanced look at where you're putting the costs. We have the bounty now. We've got the care allowance. We have the employer's contribution and all that sort of thing that takes care of the funding. Its own risk is also one of them. I think you just need to keep an eye on that balance. I think it's a balanced story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u35	Mrs De Vries may think so, but there are a lot of people in the Netherlands for whom care is not now affordable. So that balance isn't there for these people. Those people don't go to the doctor because they can't afford it. Those people have their hands in their hair about the cost of tools, for example. These people have a problem right now. What does Mrs De Vries want to do about the problem these people experience every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u36	For example, the healthcare allowance we have in the Netherlands is really meant for the people with the lower incomes. We need to see if our own risk can be taken into account. I also think that there are still instruments for last resort, for example in municipalities, for poverty policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u38	I was just at the medicine. We were able to read yesterday's plea from the President of the Medicines Evaluation Board, namely that the package leaflet of medicines should be clearer and simpler. The VVD would like to support this plea. The package leaflets are now often incomprehensible. Therefore, there are people who do not read the package leaflet and we do not think that this is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u39	I would just like to touch on the previous point, and I would like to add a question on this last point, if you will allow it, Mr President. I have also heard about the accelerated authorisation of medicinal products. At the same time, they are warned of this, because this can be at the expense of the quality and workability of medicines. How does the VVD intend to build in guarantees for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u40	I think it's important that you take a good look at where you can shorten that process. It must certainly not be at the expense of safety or the quality of the products that have gone through that process. I hope that you and a number of other colleagues of mine, for example, who were very much in favour of the majestic preparation, will continue to look at the safety and quality of the products. Because I think that's an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u41	As for this majestic preparation, we now also read about Orkambi and the pharmacist here in The Hague. Safety is also not guaranteed if he does so himself, because he gets stuff from China that we don't know is safe. So I have my doubts about that too. Let me now turn to the second point you raised, the package leaflet. I read that, too. Isn't it also the pharmacist's job to inform the patient? He gets paid for that, too. We can now make even bigger leaflets, which I do not think anyone reads. I think we should simply leave that task with the pharmacist. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u42	I think the pharmacist certainly has an important role to play in this. But it is also important that people at home sit quietly in their living room and want to read back what kind of medicine they actually got, which can read back in an easy way. I really do not make the plea to make it all much longer, but to make it more understandable and clear. For example, you should be able to see what the product does and what the most important side effects are on one A4's and not in those very small prints. We have also heard, among other things, the complaint that every single thing that occurs in the approval process is put on the package leaflet. I imagine that might scare some people off. Mr. Chairman. Gupta Strategists published this year's report Value-driven Purchasing on procurement as a strategic top priority for hospitals. There's a profit to be made, as it turns out. Within twelve months, a hospital realised 18% lower purchasing costs without compromising on medical quality for the patient. That, of course, deserves to be followed. The purchase of hospitals involves, among other things, tools. We believe there is also a world to be won in the cost of these tools. For example, the University Medical Centre Groningen indicates that the cost of resources in Germany is significantly lower than in the Netherlands, sometimes up to 30%. We find that at least remarkable, because these costs are ultimately borne by the patients and the insured. The university medical centers now try to work together more through the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centers, but we still see a relatively weak purchasing power and also a strong market power of the providers. We therefore want a joint investigation by the NZa and the ACM into the purchasing power and market power of tools. What obstacles are there? And above all: what solutions are there? We believe that the Authority can and should take a firm role in the healthcare sector. It is good that the previous minister already announced in 2016 to give a strong boost to the capacity of the Authority Consumer & Market for its tasks in the care sector. The VVD is therefore for a quick handling of the bill Repositioning tasks NZa and deregulation. What is the new minister's view on this issue? We think it is important that patients themselves opt for an insurer that best suits their needs. First of all, transparency in the provision of health insurance is important. The VVD has already drawn attention to this on several occasions. It is good that, in response to questions from the VVD, the Minister will discuss this with the NZa, in order to appeal to insurers to their obligation to be transparent, so that insured persons can better compare the offer. The freedom of choice is enhanced by competition and new entrants, which is good for the price for consumers, keeps existing parties sharp and can ensure innovation. It is therefore important that new health insurers can join the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u43	Mrs De Vries talks about transparency and that people should be able to choose. GroenLinks is absolutely also for transparency, but the fact is that people have to choose between thousands of different policies. Doesn't that mean that there's more of a fake choice? You can't choose this way. It is impossible to choose on content and price. Wouldn't the VVD be in favour of limiting the number of policies per health insurance provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u44	I think Mrs Ellemeet knows the VVD as a party that agrees that there is freedom of choice, but that you should be able to make the choice through insight. I think we can first take a whole series of steps to achieve this, so that consumers can make an easier choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u45	Insightfulness in thousands of policies is not insightfulness and does not lead to conscious choice. You can consciously choose if there is a clear number of policies. Is Mrs De Vries not in a position to talk to the insurers about reducing the number of policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u46	I have just asked a number of questions to the Minister about clone policies, as they are called. He replied that he is talking to the insurers. I also think it is important that we just wait and see the results of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u47	It is a good thing that that strange word falls: clone policy. My question to Mrs De Vries is: what should the Minister's intervention be? I think, quite frankly, that this commitment should be to ban cloning policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u48	I think you should look very carefully at what you are talking about, either within the group or outside the group. My commitment would be to ask the Minister to discuss that transparency. I don't want to deprive people of the opportunity to make a choice for another type of policy. I wouldn't want us to go to one type of policy. I think it should be insightful. There are also a number of tools, for example on the internet, with comparison websites, where you can make that comparison in a good way. I think that the Minister should first discuss how he can increase transparency and comparability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u49	Can Mrs De Vries explain to me what is the benefit for us as consumers of a health insurance company that actually offers almost exactly the same policy under another label, but at a higher price? Can you explain, in your market love, what benefit do I have, except that I'm confused, non-choice pop-ups and often just being cheated on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u50	Let's just say that if customers are being set up, we need to intervene, let that be clear. I think it's worth it if there are different possibilities. As a health insurance company, you can also compete on how you deal with your customer and how you handle claims. There are a lot of ways you can do that as a health insurance company. I think that's important, too. I also see that specific agreements are being made in some regions. I would not want to take that away from the consumer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u51	Actually, we agreed in two. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u52	Just so we're clear, this is just about policies that are exactly the same. The terms are the same, but they put a different sticker or a different company name on it and they ask for much more money. What's the advantage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u53	That is actually a repetition of the previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u54	If you say you only want one type of policy within one group, I am not in favour of it. I do think that you have to look carefully by insurance company whether it is very clear that there is a different price charged for similar policies and that it is comparable to other policies. I believe that the Minister should discuss this with the NZa and the health insurance companies. Mr. Chairman. As a VVD, we consider it important that new health insurance companies can join. At the moment there are only nine different groups, nine of which are large. Since the Health Insurance Act, no new health insurance companies have been added. However, there have been initiatives from new parties to join the market, such as Anno2012 and cooperative Carefree. They weren't successful. The market scan of the NZa in 2017 of the health insurance market also indicates the importance of new entrants. The Luxembourg iptiQ has recently come forward. New entrants are indispensable for competition, prices and innovation. In January 2017, an ACM report was produced on the entry barriers and the growth thresholds in the health insurance market. Doesn't seem to have been very much done with that. The VVD would like a cabinet response to that report and to the conclusions. For example, additional research was needed, but the licensing process would also be considered. We believe that these are important matters. Finally, the VVD would like a more detailed analysis of the reasons why the aforementioned parties have dropped out. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the medical ethics section. It will not have escaped anyone in this Chamber and far beyond that the paragraph in the coalition agreement on this matter has been drawn up with mutual understanding for each other's differing views. The paragraph represents a careful compromise and a balance between two liberal and two Christian parties. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has sent us a comprehensive letter outlining the state of play on a large number of medical-ethical issues. The Minister states that he will come forward with a substantive note on medical ethics before the summer. The VVD welcomes that. Can the Minister in general say anything about his plans in this complex area? Does he have his own ambitions that he wants to take a step further? In view of the announced note today, the VVD wants to be satisfied with questions about completed life. After all, it was my colleague, Mr Tellegen, who asked the Minister during the budget debate of VWS for a committee to map this issue a few years ago. That's what happened. The recommendations of the Schnabel Committee are now in place. The cabinet has indicated that it will work on its recommendations in conjunction with the third evaluation of euthanasia legislation. An investigation will also be launched into the size and circumstances of the group concerned. Can the Minister indicate who's going to conduct this investigation? What time does he intend to complete this investigation? Mr President, one final point before my colleague Sophie Hermans continues. Various budgets have been made available for care in the coalition agreement. Part of this is based, according to the start note, on the so-called supplementary post of the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of concrete, effective and evaluable policy proposals, the means of intensification will then be paid to the departmental budgets. What exactly are the resources involved when it comes to VWS? What policy proposals are the directors going to make? When will these be ready and how will the House of Representatives be involved? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u55	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u56	Mr. Chairman. Loving and good care or support should, wherever you get it, feel as much as at home as possible. It has to be care that suits you best. What makes you feel nice or comfortable is different for everyone. Your personal wishes must always be the basis. Sometimes there are limits to that. We all get that. Sometimes you run into rules, shortages or other problems in everyday practice. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. Loving and good care is about the right medication at the right time. It's about the time and the attention that is there for you. Time to have a cup of coffee together or take a walk, or a listening ear if you have something to worry about. Over the past few years, we have all worked very hard to prepare our concerns for the future, to organise care more appropriately and yes, also to control the costs. That's a lot to ask of everyone. Loving care has perhaps not always received the attention it deserves. This does not mean that we have to turn the system upside down again or reverse all the reforms that have taken place in recent years. On the contrary, it requires rest and trust. It requires a modest attitude from us as politicians, policy makers, health insurers or employers, because we are not the ones who stand in the mud every day. We all have to trust that the people who work in the care sector, the carers, those are the people who make the right choices. It is they who take care of our loved ones and it is up to us not to get in the way. Not with complicated discussions, not with stacks of new plans, not with ticking lists full of new rules. We must help to create space where possible by clearing unnecessary rules and, above all, by finding solutions to everyday problems. Can the Minister reflect on this thought? Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk lately about nursing homes, and that is right. But that doesn't mean that the vast majority of people prefer to stay at home for as long as possible in their own familiar surroundings, with their own things and with the people you know, with whom you share memories and who you love. It goes without saying that we look at each other, that you look at the people around you if you need a little help for once, but that self-evidentness should not lead to people who cannot rely on their environment not being able to get help. Then you should be able to count on a little help when really cleaning your house or for example support when showering. Initiatives such as those of the Dorpenzorg foundation are therefore indispensable. A network of volunteers in North Drenthe together with healthcare professionals ensures that people can stay in their own environment for as long as possible. Volunteers who in the Noaberhuuzn help people with a care or support question on their way to the care and help they need or who can help them with seemingly simple advice to grow older. This collaboration between professionals, volunteers and carers shows that together we can make things better for people. At the same time, we hear that these kinds of initiatives run counter to compelling rules and borders, for example in the areas of privacy and the exchange of data. Does the Minister recognise these signals and is he prepared to identify barriers to these informal initiatives and propose solutions? For people who are fully dependent on formal care, the own contributions you pay for it are sometimes a firm threshold. That's not the point. That is why we are pleased that the cabinet will reduce its own contribution to the WMO considerably in the coming years and make it fairer. No matter where you live, how economical you have lived or how much you have saved, everyone will pay the same amount. In the same context, we are also pleased with the reduction of the capital income allowance in the own contribution you pay to a nursing home. We look forward to seeing the legislation on the introduction of the subscription rate and, of course, the legislation on own contributions in the Wlz.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u57	It is very good that we have looked at our own contributions and that they have been reduced. Unfortunately, there are still people, such as those who use the Wlz at home or in institutions, for whom the costs are still very high as well as their own contributions. Mrs Hermans spoke about the capital income adjustment. There are a lot of people who have no or very little equity, so for those who do not now make a huge difference. It is also true that we still have little insight into the consequences of these adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u58	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u59	My question is as follows. Would Mrs Hermans think it would be a good idea if we asked the directors to pass on the consequences of the changes in their own contributions to the Wlz for people with specific characteristics?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u60	That is a question to the cabinet through Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u61	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u62	I think Mrs Ellemeet should ask this question mainly to the cabinet in her term. To my best knowledge, the letter the Minister sent about it contains a whole overview of income effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u63	However, the people themselves, the users of this law, give to them, they are the experts of experience, that it is still difficult to get that overview and that they still have high own contributions and high costs and it is difficult for them to afford. So I would like to ask Mrs Hermans whether she would like to join these people in helping to understand the consequences of the changes relating to their own contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u64	I understand very well that if you're sick or come to live in a nursing home, you spend money on care, and you'd rather spend it on something nicer. We would all prefer to do that. But I do think it is important that we pay our own contribution because it also gives us some awareness of the fact that, unfortunately, care is not free, however much we might want it to be. I repeat what I have just said. In the letter sent by the Minister, he set out clearly what measures we are all taking in the area of own contribution and own payments. There's a lot of them. You have to see that in its entirety and, by the way, in the entirety of the entire coalition agreement and all the measures contained in it. I think the survey is here now. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u65	I also have a question about the subscription rate. Of course it sounds very good: one rate, no more than a certain amount. But according to a credit transfer from the Central Planning Bureau, it costs EUR 300 million, while the cabinet only controls EUR 150 million. What is going to happen to the other 150 million, according to Mrs Hermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u66	The subscription rate will start as of 2019, at least, the legislation for this will come to the Chamber next year. As I have just said, I think it is an important measure because the Wmo contributions could really be huge for people. We're taking it to one rate now, for a fixed period, as I just said, no matter where you live, what you deserve or what your fortune is. We will compensate the municipalities for this in the coming years. I look forward to that with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u67	Yes, but Mrs Hermans is now repeating the positive part of the subscription rate, which I can also follow, but my question is another. The subscription rate costs 300 million euros and the municipalities receive only 150 million euros. I asked Mrs Hermans what she thought would happen to the other 150 million. I can give her on a note that if the municipalities have to solve that, they're going to cut back on domestic help. Then 150 million euros is about 10% of the budget. Will the VVD bear the responsibility for cutting back 150 million extra household aid by introducing this subscription rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u68	Mrs Agema is now making a statement as to which I do not know whether it will take place, so I await the proposal for the subscription rate and then we look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u69	I referred to the words of Mrs Hermans that you must feel that care is not free. Can she explain that to all those chronically ill people? They do know that they are sick and that the care they collect daily is not free, but they simply cannot pay for it because of the accumulation of all the care costs. They sometimes even refuse medication because they can't afford it, or don't use a referral to the hospital because they can't afford it anymore. What's her answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u70	First of all, Mrs Kooiman uses words I didn't use, so I'm gonna take a break from that. I said, of course, it's not nice that if you're sick, whether that's temporary or your whole life, you have to pay for care. As I said to Mrs Ellemeet, we all prefer to spend our money on other things. We have made our healthcare system so that it is mutually supportive: people who make relatively little use of care also pay for people who make much more use of it. I think that's very important. In addition, I think it is important that we also pay a little bit of our own contribution, because it gives us a sense of what that care costs, daily, monthly, yearly. I also see that, and I have seen this in the past period of time, this accumulation of own contributions can be robust, especially when you are chronically ill. That is why I am pleased that the cabinet is taking measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u71	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u72	The healthcare system is not at all in solidarity. We just have a stack of fines on being sick. That's what the VVD creates. If the VVD really wants to change something, it should not do something about the subscription rate, but then it should simply abolish its own contributions. Then she helps the chronically ill, who currently cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u73	Mr President, I am sticking to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u75	Many people take care of their sick husband, wife, father, mother, grandpa, grandma, brother or sister. They're an invaluable caretaker. But family care is also spicy, emotional and physical, especially when you get older yourself. That is why it is important that there is good support for carers too, to relieve them a little occasionally. Too often we hear that carers do not find the way to this support right or that the offer is not an answer to the need for support they have. It is a good thing that the Cabinet reserves money to improve, in particular, the findability of care support. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he intends to do this. How is he going to involve the carers in this to make sure that they really do have something to do with it in the end? That's the same question I have about the money that's available for client support. Mr. Chairman. If you need care at home, there's the neighborhood nurse. She, although of course it may also be a he, cares for people at the most vulnerable moments. She comes home to people and therefore sees a lot, for example whether some help is needed in the household as well as care or if the caregiver could use some support. If she has to spend half her day on forms and lists, then something goes wrong. That forces the deletion of rules that don't matter. Precisely because the district nurses are getting so close, you have to be able to trust that the care you get is quality. The base must be in order. The number of providers of community care has increased enormously in recent years, but care is not in all cases equally good. Therefore, my question to the Minister: what about the quality framework for community care? I would also like to know from him what is going on with the investigation into uncontracted community care, as agreed in the agreement with district care. I think that should be ready by now. And what about the commitment made by your predecessor before the summer after the pressure of, what I call, the specialized community care for that one integral rate? When things don't work out at home, there's got to be a place for you in a nursing home, preferably in the house you want to go to. Unfortunately, that's not always possible. Then you must be helped to find another place. Does the Minister have any idea whether it's going to be all right? And do health care agencies also play the mediation role that they have to play in this? In order to move to a nursing home, you need an indication. We hear from many different quarters that the process of indicating takes a long time, is quite complicated and that sometimes applications are rejected for incomprehensible reasons, sometimes even from behind an agency without having been spoken to the person in question. The VVD believes that in the personal approach that we have just introduced into healthcare, the indication really has to take another step. How does the Minister see this? How does he assess the results of the experiment on indicting in the Wlz? If you then live in a nursing home, you must be able to rely on good, safe care. That should at least be okay. But that base isn't good enough. You can expect more, namely loving care. That's why the VVD wants the best nursing homes to be the norm. Let me be very clear: that doesn't mean we're gonna write you off if you're not already. With this ambition, the VVD wants us to challenge ourselves, every day, to make every nursing home feel a little more like home every day. We owe that to the residents of the nursing homes. By taking the best nursing homes as standard, we also show how beautiful care can be and how beautiful the profession is. In the coalition agreement, 2 billion is structurally earmarked for this improvement in quality. I'm afraid we'll be investing 2 billion in the next period to find out in four years that we don't know what it's done. We can't let that happen. Mr. Chairman. We have to be honest, too. There are already nursing homes that are doing very well, which provide very good and loving care with the money that is now available and within the existing laws and regulations. In those houses, you see directors with a clear picture of what the care should look like. In these houses there is peace in the business operations and attention to the development and professionalization of employees. So quality is about more than just money. We cannot and should not dictate in The Hague how nursing homes should provide good and loving care. We must, however, state that we expect them to do so and that the time of non-committality is over. Quality is also difficult to define, because it always depends on the inhabitants, their background, their care questions, their wishes, the environment in which they live and so on. But with the quality framework we have set standards, standards that are about good and loving care, standards that can also be tested for quality. Right there's the crux. Making the quality of care transparent is not common in nursing care. We must now take this step: that nursing homes become transparent about the quality of care they provide and, to use the word, to make the outcome transparent. That information must be made available to everyone. This information is, in turn, a prerequisite for learning and improving. Only then will we be able to understand the effects of spending these EUR 2 billion. Only then can we take the step towards stimulating and rewarding improvement, all without overloading nursing homes with bureaucracy, which we want to get rid of. That is not easy, but it is necessary. The task requires something from all parties, the parties mentioned by the Minister in his letter: the healthcare providers, the healthcare offices and the inspection. To start with the healthcare providers: the minister writes that he is coming up with an improvement programme for providers. But don't we already have that with Dignity and pride? Nurses already have an obligation to make a quality plan and to account for it in their quality report a year later. Isn't that the way to shape a nursing home and make it easier to understand? Shouldn't the development of the client and employee satisfaction also be given a place in that responsibility? Then there's the care offices. They're buying care. That's the perfect time to steer on quality. The question is whether that happens. One care office has dropped the system to work in the procurement with development agreements. Another healthcare office has decided not to allocate extra money to quality improvement in 2018. That is contrary to what we want, namely improving quality and rewarding improvement. How do we connect policy and procurement better, so I ask the Minister. If the extra money is always one-on-one in the tariffs in the coming years, how are we going to see the improvement and the innovation? In other words, what are the possibilities of not putting all the money directly into the rates? Could that also be the way in which the Minister is going to explain the point of the government agreement that we are going to judge directors on the quality improvement they achieve? Or does he see a different interpretation for that? Improving also requires testing and experimenting. In writing the new Long-Term Care Act, a so-called experimental article was added to the law at the request of my colleague Bas van 't Wout. We often call that article in the VVD the anarchy article. We have the feeling that it is still little used in practice. Is that right? Why is that? What are we gonna do about that together? Finally, the inspection. The inspection shall monitor the application of the quality framework. It does so by checking whether basic care is in order and how personal care is provided. The main task of the inspection is, of course, to monitor the basic quality and whether no one passes through the ice, but the inspection also sees the beautiful and special things. It is precisely from this that the inspiration has to come. What role can the inspection play in making these well-performing houses transparent? We also need to think about the situation where a nursing home continues to perform below standards and does not achieve its own improvement objectives. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that in the end we should also be prepared to make consequences for the quality that is lagging behind? Can the Minister indicate what those consequences might be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u76	I would like to hear from the VVD how she sees these consequences for an institution that continues to perform below par.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u77	The VVD itself launched ideas for this last year. One of those ideas is linked to what I just said. There are nursing homes already doing very well. They do so with existing budgets and within existing laws and regulations. So it's about more than just money. For example, it is also about the vision a driver has on the care and how he controls his nursing home from there. Therefore, if extra money is not enough to improve quality, we could at some point make the choice that extra money is available, but that there are consequences for drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u78	I don't hear an answer to my question. I asked Mrs Hermans what would happen to an institution that continues to function badly. What does the VVD want to happen to an institution where performance remains poor?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u79	We want nursing homes where good and loving care is provided. If the quality is then about that good and loving care is structurally lagging behind, we want it to get better for the people who live there as soon as possible. You're suggesting a little bit that we'd like all these nursing homes to fall apart and those residents to seek refuge elsewhere, but that's not true. On the contrary, we want consequences to be drawn with regard to those who make mistakes or lose opportunities in the direction. A consequence could be that the driver quits. But there may also be other ideas. That is why I ask the Minister how he is going to give substance to the sentence in the government agreement that directors are judged on quality improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u80	I hear something from the VVD that makes me very happy. That's nice, too. The VVD talks about loving care in the nursing homes and in the nursing homes. Now colleague Marijnissen presented a plan last week to look more at care in the neighborhood, so more in the neighborhood. I was wondering how the VVD is looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u81	I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen when she says... I say that through you, Mr President, to Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u82	It's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u83	If you pass it on, that's great. I totally agree with Mrs. Marijnissen that you prefer to organise care in someone's trusted neighborhood. A lot of people really want care at home. If that is no longer possible or if you prefer to live with a number of older peers, it should be possible. Fortunately, you already see many initiatives, such as Knarrenhof. But also the Guesthouse, where I visited myself, I find a very nice example of this. I also agree with Mrs Marijnissen that the corporations must get on their feet, because I also see that there is a shortage of affordable suitable homes for the elderly. Something must be done about this. That is why I also welcome the fact that the Minister for the Interior is presenting a housing agenda and that she pays particular attention to elderly people's housing. The difference between Mrs Marijnissen and myself lies in the fact that my party is part of this cabinet. So we must also make choices. Above all, we must also see whether plans can be realised. Then I am talking about feasibility in practice, but it must also be financially feasible. Then I have some serious reservations about this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u84	That is very unfortunate, because I think we have a very well-founded plan. Hopefully the Minister will be able to respond to that on Thursday. This is also possible in a note-taking meeting. If we do delete red tape, waste and we do it more small-scale, a lot of layers of management can come out of it, then I think we can achieve a lot. But I do see the good will at the VVD. That's a first step. Let us then hopefully take the second step with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u85	Please continue, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u86	I would like to repeat that I have serious reservations about the financial and practical feasibility of the plan drawn up by Mrs Marijnissen. That does not alter the fact that I repeat that I share with her the ambition that we should look at what the initiatives for small-scale housing are now running into in practice. We need to see if we can remove the obstacles in legislation and regulation together. Then I hope to find Mrs Marijnissen by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u87	The VVD made a nice speech about loving care and attention. I also heard it was about trusting the care professional. I still have one more question. I share with the VVD that it is necessary to improve the quality of nursing care, but how do we prevent that settlement culture from developing again? I would so like to have a culture of encouragement. There was a bit of stringency in Mrs Hermans's words. How do we prevent this settlement culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u88	I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I would also like to say something about that in a moment. We are in the situation that we are talking here and out on the street mainly about things that are not going well in care. I regret that, because that creates the impression that it is a problem in our care, in the hospitals, but especially in the nursing homes. I really want to fight that image. I fundamentally disagree with that. I also think it is unfair to all those who work hard in healthcare every day. But we have to make a move with each other. There really is a need to improve quality. If we look at history from 2004 to about where we are today, there has actually been too little fundamental change in nursing care. There are a lot of reasons for this, let us not talk about it now, but something really needs to be done. I want to be strict on that, but that's exactly why you need to learn, you need to experiment, you need to improve. And then things go wrong, yes, and we have to give room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u89	Yeah, things go wrong. That is possible, but I like it so much when there is an inspection to discuss it with the institutions. There should not be a settlement culture that is ticking institutions on the fingers, not from the inspection, but certainly not from the political point of view. Let's look at ourselves, too. There must be an opportunity to learn. Mrs Hermans knows that I have said many times that I would like the quality framework to be primarily a framework for dialogue. I hope for the support of the VVD in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u90	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u91	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u92	Mr. Chairman. Long-term care is more than just caring for the elderly. It is perhaps first and foremost care that is intended for people who need care for their lives because of a disability or a chronic illness. Let us not forget them, because we are also faced with a quality statement in disability care. What is the status of the quality agenda in disability care in this context? Does the Minister see opportunities in that agenda to give a more prominent place to the promotion of innovation and the use of technology? Especially for people with disabilities, the use of the right technology can mean an indescribable liberation in leading a life with as much self-direction as possible. Mr. Chairman. Whether it is care and support at home, a place in the nursing home or another form of long-term care, in all these cases you should assume that you are well and especially lovingly cared for. This cabinet faces the great challenge of fulfilling that promise, a promise that we can only fulfill if we work together, if we invest in the right people and if we give them the space, if we do not punish good ideas with rules, unfortunately now Mrs Dik-Faber is just gone for a while but reward with a compliment and with the space to do your job as a professional, if we accept that something goes wrong. I'm rounding up. Loving and good care or support should, wherever you get that care, feel as much as possible as at home. Loving and good care requires trust. I hope that we will be able to give that confidence in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u93	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u94	Thank you, Mr President. A special moment: for the first time, we are discussing the budget of VWS with these new directors. We've already had the first debates together. It strikes me and my colleague Mrs Voortman that all three gentlemen have their own style, but also all three have a hands-on mentality. That's a good thing. That's good news for the care. I wish them good luck again in the near future. And that is necessary, because fortunately there is a lot of good in the care, but there really has to be much better. Let me start by saying how proud and happy GroenLinks is with all the people who work in care and who every day do their utmost to help patients and make them healthy. Last week we talked extensively about the labour market in health care. GroenLinks sees this, happily together with these directors, as one of the biggest challenges in the care of the coming years. My group will therefore closely monitor whether the directors are achieving sufficient results in their care for current and future staff. Mr. Chairman. In this budget debate I would like to focus on a number of issues: the affordability of care, the undesirable effects of market forces in care, home care and, finally, care for women. Good care starts with affordability and accessibility. The Netherlands is a prosperous country in which we can take good care of each other. Unfortunately, it is not yet a matter of course that everyone goes to the doctor when there is a need. In recent years, we have seen that its own risk and its own contribution have undesirable consequences. Several studies show that people avoid caring when they do need it. This applies to no less than one in five people in the Netherlands. For people who need psychological help, this problem is even greater. Of them half of the necessary care is avoided because of the costs. Do the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State recognize this problem? Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the level of its own risk? And when will the impact of the current own risk of care avoidance be evaluated? Mr. Chairman. Also the own contribution in the Social Support Act and the Long-Term Care Act can be a reason for people to avoid care. This new cabinet comes with a subscription fee for its own contribution in the Wmo; we talked about it a little while ago. The Central Planning Office states in its accounts that this measure will cost municipalities 0.3 billion, while the cabinet will only pay 145 million for it. This means that Mrs Agema also referred to the fact that the municipalities themselves have to make up half of it. What is the Minister's response to this? And can he clarify the cost of his own contribution for people with a small scholarship who use the Long-Term Care Act? Are they making sufficient progress? Can the Minister calculate the impact on specific incomes? For there is a great deal of uncertainty among the people about this. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A hopeful passage from the government agreement is about dealing with debt issues and the related government debt collection policy. The current pay-as-you-go scheme for health insurance is such an example of counter-policy. For a very large group of people, this is in practice a fine on poverty. The number of people in the scheme for more than two years is not decreasing and the number of re-notifications is increasing significantly. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are abolishing this fine for poverty. Does that also apply to the Minister? And if not, does the Minister agree with me that the government should at least comply with the maximum collection costs of commercial collection agencies? There is 15% instead of the 25% that the government now uses. And would he like to make it possible for people under control to automatically flow out of the pay-as-you-go scheme? I'd like to hear a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Good care benefits from a balance between patients, healthcare providers and health insurers. I wrote an own-initiative paper on this in early 2015 with proposals to restore this balance. Unfortunately, we are now almost two years ahead and there is still a growing unequal distribution of power in healthcare. Healthcare insurers, large hospitals and the pharmaceutical industry: they seem to have more and more to say. They benefit from market forces in care. They drive prices up, and send too one-sidedly on money and too little on good care. The patient and good care are not always central to them. This has to be different as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Where is the patient in this playing field, I ask the Minister. And why is cooperation still more exception than rule? Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the patient and the insured are entitled to clarity. To start with the care itself: when will we finally get an insight into hospital prices, I ask the Minister. And more importantly, when will the patient gain more insight into the quality of the treatment? Of course, the patient can only consciously choose an institution or a treatment provider if he has an insight into the outcomes of the care and knows what treatment has been done for other patients, for example. This patient perspective is still very limited and actually included without obligation. What's the Minister gonna do about it? I'd like a response. Then I'll come to the health policy jungle. He's a thorn in the eye of GroenLinks. At the beginning of 2015, I proposed a drastic reduction in the number of policies. Two policies per health insurance company is more than enough. This makes it possible for people to choose on price and content. And it encourages health insurance companies to contract on content instead of just on money. Is the Minister prepared to agree with the health insurance companies on reducing the number of policies? As far as the budget policy is concerned, the government expects the number of budget policies to decrease automatically and wants to review the state of play in 2020. But in my eyes, it's really too late. Can the investigation be brought forward, for example to 2018? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. Some of the care now lies with the municipalities, but people are not put in boxes and often need care and support from the municipalities, as well as from the health insurance companies. Now it is a coincidence that in a previous life, not so long ago, this minister of VWS set a good example in a cooperation between municipality and health insurance company with a municipality policy. Now I would like to hear from the minister before VWS what he thinks of this cooperation. Mr. Chairman. We've talked a lot in recent years about nursing homes. The good news is there's gonna be 2.1 billion for nursing. However, no full coverage has yet been presented for this purpose. What high hat is the Minister going to magic this amount of money from? And doesn't he forget the 90% older people who live at home and need care there? Because staying at home is very nice for most people, but these older people also need care and attention. And how does the Minister prevent the care trap in which many elderly people end up on a waiting list in front of a nursing home? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is unacceptable that vulnerable people suddenly fall in costs and care, just because they end up on a waiting list. Wouldn't it make much more sense to leave care and patient costs the same as long as they stay at home, whether they're on a waiting list or not? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Only medical care for people at home isn't enough. It is also about people's attention and well-being. For example, people with dementia and their carers need more guidance in their life with dementia. If the social component of care is forgotten, it often leads to additional problems and additional costs. Is the Minister prepared to support initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life of people with dementia and their environment? I'd like a response. And does the Minister recognise that, especially when it comes to attention, the role of helpers and caregivers is so important? Those people have been thrown out of business in the last few years. How does the Minister intend to give this group of employees a place in health care again? Mr. Chairman. We talk very often about the elderly, but not only the elderly need care at home, but also people with disabilities do. What is the Minister going to do about their problems with the absurd re-indications for these people? These are often people with permanent disabilities, who need to be re-identified each time. That doesn't make any sense. They also have to deal with a large number of points of contact. And what is the Minister going to do about the alarming signals about young people and adults with a slightly intellectual disability, who are often insufficiently represented? This group of people is also particularly vulnerable in this increasingly complex society, in which they find it difficult to find their way. In addition, these people often underestimate their own needs for care. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. People with mental problems also live at home more and more often. We see that the beds in the institutions are finished without care being sufficiently built up at home on the other side. As a result, people fall between shore and ship, leading to more crises. This leads to more confused people on the street and ultimately to heavier and more expensive care, while light interventions could prevent a lot. GroenLinks wants ggz institutions and social neighbourhood teams to work better together, which improves the knowledge about ggz among welfare workers and police, and that more ggz patients can live and participate in the neighbourhood just like everyone else. Good support is crucial for this, including for local residents. They should not feel that responsibility for the well-being of their vulnerable neighbour falls on their shoulders. It is also important that there are forms of housing between care institutions and completely independent living in them in order to make the transition as gradual as possible. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? Does the Secretary of State intend to make firm agreements on better outpatient ggz in the neighborhood, on cooperation between social support and ggz, and on investment in outpatient care for people with severe psychiatric illness? How does he intend to better involve the immediate surroundings of the ggz patient in the care? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget the carers. These people are invaluable, but they're overloaded too often. It starts with them knowing what support is available to them. In this light, I ask the Minister how and when he is going to implement my motion on a national information campaign for carers and what means he is making it available. I also ask the Secretary of State if he would like to take care cooperatives with him in the development of his wider prevention plan. These citizens' initiatives are also a major support for carers. It is then important that municipalities, health insurance companies and health care offices work together to support carers. Does the Minister recognise the importance of this cooperation? In 1971 the first abortion clinic was opened in the Netherlands, after years of struggle among others the boss-in-own women. I am proud that every woman in the Netherlands can make the choice to have an abortion and I am proud that we can do this in a humane and safe way. However, abortion care is currently under pressure. Due to the bankruptcy of the CASA Clinics, some women now have to travel 100 miles. The existing clinics also indicate that they will not be able to sustain the additional workload they have taken over. What solution is being worked on, I ask the Minister. GroenLinks is very concerned, especially about the vulnerable women who want to have an abortion and for whom 150 kilometres away is really too far. I'd like a response to that. In addition, the taboo on abortion is growing. Women sometimes feel unsafe to talk about their choice, and they find it difficult to find independent help and guidance, so that they can deliberately make the right choice about their pregnancy. GroenLinks welcomes the fact that this cabinet is spending a lot more money to support women in this regard. Can the Minister explain in more detail how this money is being used? Mr. Chairman. We are often talking about healthcare in the Netherlands in debates about healthcare. That makes sense. However, Mr Kaag is also very busy promoting care for women abroad. My question is: could these ministers be more cooperative with her and could they also actively share the expertise we have in the Netherlands with our colleague, so that this expertise also benefits care for women abroad? I'd like a comment on that, too. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, sexual health is about more than just pregnancy. Equally important, for example, is the prevention of sexual cross-border behavior. RIVM's National Action Plan on Sexual Health provides good leads for a wider impact on this subject, sexual health. Does the Minister share GroenLinks' desire to implement this agenda? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the following point: the importance of preventing HIV infection in the Netherlands. We can be incredibly proud of the prevention of AIDS in the Netherlands. With our good information we have maximum impact. PrEP is now available for the largest risk group on HIV-AIDS, in a temporary arrangement until March. Meanwhile, the EEA has given a positive opinion on PrEP and the Health Council will deliver its opinion next year. In order to cover the period until the opinion of the Health Council, I tabled an amendment together with Mrs Dijkstra of D66 in order to continue the use of PrEP. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether he supports this initiative. Mr. Chairman. Finally, another issue that deserves more attention, social acceptance and better care: 13%, one in eight women, is already attacked by prepartum or postnatal depression during pregnancy or after childbirth. They do not end up in a pink cloud but in a grey and sometimes dark grey cloud. Among women with low economic status, this percentage is much higher, around 40%; 40% of these women suffer from this. The experts in this field, midwifes and youth doctors from practice, indicate that care in the Netherlands for women with post-natal depression is still far below the mark. In addition, postnatal depression affects not only the mother but also the child. There is still little, too little, knowledge of this in society. We have to and can do something about this. GroenLinks proposes, in an amendment to the budget, to invest in an information campaign, to give more attention to this issue in training, among others, of midwife and youth doctors and to introduce a national screening for these women. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State, but also from both other government officials, because it affects the portfolios of all of them as to how they are opposed to this. Mr President, I have come to the end of my speech. I just wanted to formalize my earlier amendment to item No. Retract seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u96	I am very fond of the latest amendment by GroenLinks. I only saw that she may have forgotten to include the caregiver in the information campaign. The maternity care is a very important part of the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u97	Sure. I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u99	Mr. Chairman. I have been visiting a home for 25 years for people with physical and mental disabilities. Every time I am impressed by the care, attention and patience of the caregivers. Mr. Chairman. People who need care are always vulnerable, by illness, by disability, by age or by illness. They depend on other people's hands. Then it is oh so important that those hands are competent and caring. The CDA wants to maintain the range of care and skill and warm attention of healthcare professionals. However, these are now under severe pressure due to declining solidarity. That's worrying. Solidarity is not about insuranceing your own risks. Solidarity is: wanting to carry the pain of someone else. One has more bad luck in life, other genes or heavier construction. In its research, NIVEL identifies three causes of a reduction in solidarity: a poor lifestyle, a diversity of policies and the ever-increasing costs. On the basis of these three points, the CDA intends to indicate what we believe should be done in the coming years. Firstly, people are less and less willing to pay for the consequences of the bad lifestyle of others. The CDA therefore attaches importance to investing in prevention. We are pleased that the government agreement has agreed that EUR 170 million will be put firmly into a prevention agreement. Will the Minister involve all kinds of organisations in the elaboration? And how's he gonna do that? Secondly, solidarity is declining through the jungle of policies. The CDA wants to put an end to the large and small differences between the policies. It is a thorn in our eye that health insurance companies offer various basic insurances with identical conditions but with a different name and another price: clone policies. People are barely able to make a balanced choice. The CDA therefore wants one standard policy for all health insurance companies: the Dutch health insurance policy, which every health insurance company offers. The offer of basic insurance is now unnecessarily large and unclear. Studying the small print and the differences between them has become an immense task. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that consideration should be given to how more transparency and standardisation of the overall policy offer can be achieved. The CDA wants that to be done quickly. How's the Minister gonna handle this? At what time can we expect results from this? Is the Minister prepared to carry out a zero measurement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u100	The contribution sounds like music to me. Perhaps we can save the rulers a little time, because the research that Mrs Van den Berg is asking for is already there. It's in this month's Consumer Guide, December. It's very clear. You can read it like this. You'll see what a mess of policies there is. So I would say: let's move on with the goat, the research is there, now move on to the ban. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u101	I'm glad the investigation's already here. The zero readings are already there, according to you. But we are happy to give the market the opportunity to self-regulation. So now banning is really going too far. However, we do want to ensure that the market itself takes it positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u102	That belief in the market is really very moving. Do you know what it is? I think there has been a discussion on the same subject for a few years. In fact, everyone already knows that we need to get rid of these clone policies, except the health insurance companies. They can't get that between their ears. In fact, they have no interest in it either, because as long as they can make us all pay a little more for the same product, they will not let that happen. So how do you think this self-regulation is going to be effective? And when will it be enough? So at what point do we really have to get rid of these clone policies in that self-regulation route of yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u103	First of all, I should like to speak in a moment about the coalition agreement, which has already been agreed in order to achieve greater transparency and also to pick up the grid by 2020. We would therefore like to ask the Minister to monitor this earlier and to look at developments. Once again, we believe that the market, as well as civil society, should be given the opportunity to tackle and regulate matters on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u104	In itself, this is a positive sound from the CDA about tackling the number of policies. That may be even more true for the budget policy, I think. Does the CDA also agree with GroenLinks that we should get rid of this budget policy as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u105	I could almost go on reading, because that was agreed in the coalition agreement. That is the continuation of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u106	Then maybe it's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u107	No, Mr President, because I know what is in the coalition agreement and that is not what I would like to hear. The coalition agreement states that we will examine it again in 2020. Your colleague, Mrs Bruins Slot, has also said in very clear terms that she wants to get rid of the budget policy. Does Mrs Van den Berg agree with GroenLinks that we should get rid of this budget policy as soon as possible and at least bring forward the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u108	The government agreement has agreed that we will assess this in 2020. We would like to ask the Minister to think about legislation now. So he should not start thinking about how to get rid of it by 2020, but measures need to be put in place now so that they can be applied immediately. And then we really hope that people think: well, I'm not gonna wait for that; I'm gonna make sure that my store is wiped clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u110	Mr. Chairman. The government agreement thus states that the supply of budget policies will be substantially reduced. Further measures can be taken if health insurers do not themselves undertake this. Can the Minister promise that he will work out these possible measures in advance, so that insurers know that we are serious? Against this background, we also call for attention to be paid to the settlement system. For example, it is still attractive for insurers to have few people with ggz care in the file. Is the Minister prepared to have further investigation into this matter? The CDA, like the Cabinet, is committed to taking good care of everyone at the right time and in the right place. The major changes in care in recent years have required a great deal from all concerned. We are well aware of that. However, it remains very important that care remains affordable for everyone. That concerns me, because the costs are likely to increase in the coming years. That too runs out of solidarity. An average adult Dutchman lost €5,700 to care in 2018. For a family that is almost €12,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u111	In the campaign, your political leader said, at least then, that he wanted to do something about his own risk. Surely that was the most simple way to reduce the cost of care a little bit. Why didn't you choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u112	Two responses to that. One side is that we have chosen to do so. Because if we had not intervened, our own risk would have increased by almost €100 over the next four years. We've made peace now. It remains at €385. Would we have wanted to bring that down a little further as a CDA? Yeah, but you make choices. You come to different decisions in a coalition agreement and this is the outcome of the overall package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u113	Yes, but there is also money reserved for shareholders, for example, and there are a number of other items. Therefore, if it had been up to the CDA, its own risk would not only have been frozen, but would also have been further adjusted downwards. But you didn't, because I guess the VVD didn't think that was a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u114	I'm always used to not talking about the outcome of negotiations. This is the outcome of the negotiations. We, too, attach great importance to a good investment climate and to employment. In that whole balance, you make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u115	I'm always sorry about that. However, there were two parties that stood for the reduction of their own risk. We have tried several times to achieve that reduction in our own risk. Unfortunately, the CDA didn't give it home. However, I am curious as to what other point of concern you have been given back because you have gone along with not abolishing that fine on sick people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u116	One of the first things we're all dealing with is the fact that we're investing over 2 billion dollars in nursing care. That means you have to make your choices in a total package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u117	That was already reserved. That's what the nursing home staff had been fighting for incredibly. Luckily, they won that, too. So that was already known when the negotiations began. I am so sorry that the CDA had the choice to lower it and did not take that chance. Isn't there still a chance to look at it again and to bet on that reduction? We are discussing the budget today and we have the whole transition circus. One billion hasn't been used, so we might be able to use it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u118	I attach great importance to the fact that everyone abides by the outcome of the negotiations and the agreement we have. For the record, at the time of writing the CDA's election programme, we had raised another amount for nursing care, namely 1 billion. That 2 billion wasn't known by then. These were new facts that we had to take into account during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u120	I said that the increase in costs over the next few years would undermine solidarity. As mentioned above, it is nearly €12,000 per year for a family. Part of this is directly reflected in the cost of the care premium and its own payments. In addition, a lot of money is paid through taxes and deductions. In the coming years, the own risk will not increase and its own contributions to medicines will be maximized. These are good measures, but they do not prevent an average family from experiencing a 20% increase in healthcare costs in the coming years. The total expenditure on medical care risks, if we do nothing, rising from 46.5 billion in the coming years to over 55 billion. That's untenable. That is why we have agreed that we will work together with various field parties to curb this rise in healthcare costs. An increasing proportion of the healthcare budget goes to expensive medicines and treatments. Is it true that the added value of new medicines up to a cost of EUR 25 million is not, or is hardly, assessed? Is it easy to understand which treatments are most expensive in terms of cost and which are most effective? In what period does the Minister intend to conclude the main agreements? Are any new parties invited? How does the Minister deal with the qualitative agreements in the main agreement now show that they have hardly produced any effect in the previous agreements? How does the Minister ensure that the savings are achieved, also by working differently rather than with the boned cheese bowl? Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, care is about people. We want a healthcare system in which the patient is central and in which professional care and care by family or acquaintances fits well. This means that we want good care, which is available, affordable and accessible. Its affordability is under enormous pressure. Availability leaves a lot to be desired in several respects. There are long waiting lists at the ggz and there are 60,000 reports per year of confused persons. The Confused Behaviour Switch team explains in its report that not all municipalities have their approach in order. The accessibility often does not meet the commitments made in the case of acute care. That's unacceptable. The CDA therefore wants this cabinet to focus on better cooperation in the chain, better measurement of results, better data exchange and standardisation, and better cooperation in the chain. A medium-sized hospital now employs dozens of pharmacist assistants to find out exactly what medication they are using in incoming patients. This would be unnecessary in the case of adequate patient data exchange. It is not only inefficient now, it also leads to incomplete information when someone comes in. This takes unnecessarily much precious time that the healthcare professional can better spend on the patients themselves. Then better results. Quality registrations are very intensive in themselves, but still limited in total. The relationship between costs and results is barely established. In what way will the Minister work on better rewarding outcomes in healthcare, recording results, quality and costs? What innovations are applied and used? With regard to improved data exchange and standardisation, all professionals complain about the unnecessary regulatory burden and the poor connection of systems. The CDA wants to give space to the professionals. The endless amount of rules, administration and bureaucracy hinders the focus on what really matters in care: care and attention for patient and client. For example, a ggz institution receives a high fine because it reported a little late to the inspection that it prevented a suicide. Nurses are doing administration 25% of the time. Moreover, they often have to enter the same data several times because systems do not connect. An operating nurse must register whether the operation started one minute late. Care settings with the same computer program cannot communicate with each other anyway. Hospitals should manually knock on records of quality records. It's too absurd for words! More room for responsibility for doctors and nurses is needed to stop this rule madness. The CDA trusts the healthcare professionals and accepts less detailed reports from institutions to reduce workload. Mr. Chairman. Especially in a sector where e-health is used and where robot operations are performed, it is not at this time to manually knock in data, double enter data and have systems that cannot communicate with each other. Can the Minister indicate the progress of the Information Board? This aims, among other things, to achieve a basic data set of care and standards for medication transfer. Mr. Chairman. Almost one in three Dutch people have difficulty in understanding and organizing the care for their own health. The maze of care systems and terms is huge. The CDA believes it is important that people are not left to their fate, especially when it comes to good care. That is why the CDA has already proposed the introduction of a healthcare buddy. That's a volunteer with special training that helps and guides seriously ill people through the medical mill. This buddy can really help patients, for example, understand medical information and talk to the doctor. We hear from patients' organisations that virtually nothing has been done with the implementation of the adopted motion. We very much regret this, especially as this can greatly help people who are seriously ill. Can the Minister explain why this has not yet been done and promise that he will continue to do so? Finally. Everyone has the right to good care that is accessible, available and affordable. No one should worry whether adequate care is available to themselves or to his loved ones. Maintaining solidarity is important for this. Through better cooperation, better measurement of results, better data exchange and standardisation, the CDA is keen to ensure this together with the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u121	Thank you, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg, who is making his maiden speech today. During a maiden speech should not be interrupted. And no, that doesn't apply to directors. The floor is yours, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u122	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate these ministers and Secretary of State and wish them every success. The fact that I am allowed to make my maiden speech today on the theme of "care" is special to me. It is wonderful that my group gives me the confidence to work with long-term care, care for the elderly and care for people with long-term disabilities. Because care affects all of us. You need care when you're sick, getting older or living with a disability. Most people who need care want to organise this as well as possible in their own environment. At the CDA, the person asking for help is central. That people who work in care, do this with heart and soul and are ready for the other person with both code green and code red is something I know very closely. The two most important women in my life: my wife and my mother, working, or working in nursing care. This makes it even more special for me to be able to speak on behalf of my group this evening. Good care for the elderly is a matter of civilisation for the CDA; loving and valuable care, organized on a small scale. There must be sufficient attention for the elderly. The human dimension is our starting point. The human dimension of the CDA is reflected in the size of care organisations, in the voice of residents and carers, in preventing people from falling between shore and ship and fighting loneliness. For nursing home care, extra money will be available seriously. The CDA Group is very pleased with that. Our question is how this is used. More money should lead to an improvement in the quality of care. Last Friday, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber. In it we read that with the additional 435 million for next year, about 7,000 fte of healthcare professionals can get started. Our question is whether the Minister is going to agree with the sector that these funds are also being spent on this and not on more overhead. Is this monitored, without imposing additional administrative burdens? Are there so many extra caregivers? The latter is a great concern for my group. In another letter to the Chamber last Friday, the Minister gives a comprehensive description of how he intends to organise the improvement of quality. For the CDA, these things are not separate from each other. Can he indicate when he will present a more detailed approach? During the General Financial Reviews, the CDA asked for the WRR to look into the future of our healthcare system, taking lessons from the surrounding countries. Please respond to this request. Then the accumulation of own payments in the care. As of 1 January 2018, people who need permanent intensive care at home pay a rate of 10% instead of 12.5% in their own contributions. In addition, the Cabinet takes various measures for 2019 to reduce its own payments in healthcare. Think of the subscription rate in the Wmo, the freezing of the own risk and halving of the capital income add-on in the Wlz. Many good measures, but the CDA still sees two problems. Firstly, people experience a financial threshold and secondly, they experience a decline in the number of hours of care, when they switch from care at home based on the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act, to care carried out on the basis of the Wlz. This plays all the more when people are on the waiting list for an institution and then get temporary care at home and go backwards in hours. My group wants this double-care trap to be investigated. The CDA sees a lot of waste. We will do everything we can to prevent this waste, such as stair lifts from my colleague Lenny Luck via the Meldpunt. Our question is why every stair lift should be new, while well-functioning second-hand stair lifts are available. Is the lack of knowledge about recycling possibilities or are the tendering procedures the drivers behind this waste? Is there no possibility of resolving this waste in consultation with municipalities? We are seeing a development towards increasingly growing healthcare institutions. My group sees the danger that care institutions will become too large; so great that, in the event of bankruptcy, care for local residents can no longer be taken. In fact, then, there is a regional monopoly. When this is at the expense of freedom of choice, older people do not get the quality they deserve. And below-quality settings cannot be tackled because they are too large; so large that they easily ignore negative inspection reports. According to the Minister, is there a relationship between the size of the care institution and the non-sticking of instructions from the inspection? Is the Health Organisation Act specifically looking at the regional market position of Wlz institutions? Mr. Chairman. With all the good and loving care offered, the voice of the client remains important. Therefore, the CDA is pleased that additional money will be available for customer support. However, it is clear that many municipalities struggle with client support. The CDA Group therefore wants to know whether the Bruins Slot/Van Engelshoven motion is being arrested. Is there an independent and expert customer support in every Dutch municipality on 1 January 2018? Mr. Chairman. Cartel care is not a choice. It happens to you. Someone you love will get sick and you'll take care of it. 3.5 million people in the Netherlands do this long and intensively, three-quarters even daily and in many cases even day and night. Many carers get caught up in piles of paperwork. They want to worry, but they get overloaded by the loss of professional help. To let carers catch their breath from time to time, the CDA wants more room for recess care. The coalition agreement recognises this and makes 10 million available. How is the Minister going to promote the use of practical care? Furthermore, the CDA wants carers to have a formal position in the so-called kitchen table, where care needs are identified. Carers should be able to tell how much care they can take. I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Too often people fall between shore and ship, and that is unacceptable. Not only the elderly who have to wait for a place in a nursing home but where the municipality and/or health insurance company does not want to provide any more support, but also young people with a slight intellectual disability deserve our attention, because this group is finding it increasingly difficult in our more complex society. Will the Minister work with municipalities to ensure that this group can continue to function as independently as possible in line with the UN Convention for People with Disabilities? A method to make the Long-Term Care Act, the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act more compatible would be to experiment through the cross-domain. In another letter last Friday, the Minister again states that he wants to arrive at an integral pgb from the Wmo domain. Beautiful. However, we would like to see that this can also be done from the Wlz domain and that from there can also be experimented transcendentally. My group wants to know how many people are using it now. Knowledge of the possibilities is limited in the field. Does the Minister also want to involve healthcare agencies in these experiments so that people with a Wlz indication can also participate in this new experiment? Mr. Chairman. As far as some of the ggz clients are concerned, we would like them to have access to the Wlz. We are therefore pleased with the letter from the Secretary of State in which he describes his process steps. My group, however, calls for urgency in addition to this care. Can the Secretary of State provide a timetable within which access is regulated? Mr. Chairman. Care care is tailor-made. Not the protocols, forms or standard booths of the healthcare provider or municipality are the starting point but the individual care question. The think tank Ont(Regel) de Zorg recently came up with shocking figures. A district nurse is on average 48.5% of the time engaged in administrative work. They didn't choose the trade for this. In addition to the proposed scrapings, my group sees an important first step in simplifying annual healthcare procurement. The Wlz Purchasing Framework will apply for 2018 to 2020 and will be based on a standard three-year contract unless it concerns new providers. In principle, no agreements are made about volume anymore. However, the price is negotiated annually. My group would like to see an impetus in which standard multi-year contracts are concluded with contracted healthcare organisations, which include agreements on quality and price. This avoids administrative burdens and ensures that healthcare providers have financial clarity. This gives healthcare providers more space to focus on the quality of care and new forms of care. In addition, we hope that the Minister will also appeal to the supervisory boards of healthcare institutions for their responsibility in order to achieve less internal rules that burden people in the workplace. Mr. Chairman. Taking care of each other means you want to live together. This calls for a strong society, and this is not self-evident. My group wants to actively involve young people in society. The cabinet has therefore proposed a social service period, a period with the aim of learning that living together is a joint task. 25 million has already been allocated for 2018. Our question is when the cabinet will come up with concrete measures on this issue and with which social partners and municipalities they will take this up. Mr. Chairman. Loneliness is a major problem in our society. It occurs in all age groups, but especially in our elderly. More than one million of the 55-plussers indicate that they feel lonely. That's poignant. Care and attention for our elderly are a responsibility of all of us, of family, neighbors, acquaintances and associations. We want a rural approach to loneliness that takes shape locally. We can organize that. In Rotterdam you have had good experiences with this. The government agreement speaks of an approach together with municipalities and civil society organisations. We hope that the Minister will soon work with these parties. Mr. Chairman. This coalition agreement actually invests in caring for the most vulnerable group in our society. The resources are available, but an ambitious approach is needed in order to restore human measure to care. This calls for an attitude of "no words, but deeds." In recent days, caregivers have also shown this attitude to the caregivers, despite code red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u123	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u124	Thank you for your lovely maiden speech. I would like to suspend congratulations and, of course, I would like to congratulate you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u125	We will continue to deal with the budget of Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u126	Mr. Chairman. Then I have nothing but to thank Mr Slootweg for this beautiful pen and for his maiden speech. He has a very nice wallet. Of course, he also has two ladies who have experience in the work they do. That he can only listen very much to the women in his life and go to a nice work visit! Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to begin my speech. District Nurse Esther wrote the following in her blog last week. "I'm knocking on the door that's already welcoming: it's me. She turns her head towards me and I look her in her tearful face. She's crying with big swings. She then sobbed a lump in her throat, she took a deep breath and said, "I really didn't want to cry at all, Esther, I'm sorry. And I ask: yes, but why not? Because you have to listen to me first and then you won't have time to help me wash." Mr. Chairman. We receive these messages daily in multiples. I refer to an older person who has run out of time to wash it, an aid worker who chokes on all the bullshit and accountability, a pregnant woman who likes the streets, because the hospital has no place or is too far away, the suicidal girl who is not being helped, children who do not get medicine because the pharmaceutical industry wants to make profits and the nurse on the ambulance who is overworking and earning too little, in contrast to the gritty managers at the top. As a new Member of Parliament on care, I can say: this is chopping in. These are sick people who depend on a caring government. But when the SP points to the responsibility of the government, responsible directors often don't give home. No more child support or home care. No, the municipalities are responsible. Close an important hospital, then it's a decision of the field. Fusing hospitals, the minister can't stop it. Family doctors, obstetricians who don't get the money for the care they provide. Yeah, that's a conflict between them and the health insurance companies. I ask the directors: when do we return the care to the people who need care and to the caregivers? When are we not gonna look away when things go wrong, but we're gonna say, "I'm gonna take care of that, I'm gonna take care of that?" The SP obviously has a number of suggestions when it comes to places where this could be done. This can be done, for example, by setting up a national health fund. That is a movement supported by a quarter of a million people. Care is not a market and man is not a product. Why has been chosen to give up control and put the power with the health insurance companies is a mystery to me. Therefore, remove the fine on being sick. We're dealing with 260,000 people who can't pay their bounty. People choose not to take drugs or throw away the letter of referral to the hospital, because it is too expensive. But fine, such a market! We can now choose between 60,000 different healthcare policies. The VVD calls this transparent, the SP calls this crazy. How does the Health Secretary think this is gonna help people? Doesn't he think this transition circus has gotten completely out of hand? So people don't switch either. And because people don't switch, there's 1 billion stuck with the health insurance companies. And even if you already met all the strict buffer requirements, there is still 4 billion on the shelf with the health insurance companies to put in immediately. These reserves are built up with our premium money. And so there are enough reserves with the health insurance companies to significantly reduce the premiums. But instead, the premiums continue to rise. Doesn't the Minister find it strange that we have no control whatsoever over the premium money we all pay? In the meantime, the risk is not dealt with either, the penalty for being ill continues to exist and top salaries are earned by directors of health insurance companies. Mr. Chairman. I looked it up for a while and I was really freaked out by what those health insurance companies deserve. Really millions! And then complain that the care is too expensive. I really see a lot of money here for care that doesn't go to care. How does the Secretary of State for Medical Care view this? Mr. Chairman. Research carried out by the General Court again this year shows that there is money left on the healthcare budget. That's not the first time. A substantial amount of 2.4 billion was reserved for care by the Chamber, but has not been spent. We have dealt with 77 000 redundancies in health care and people who have had to turn in on working conditions, but we also have to deal with vulnerable children who did not have care and elderly people who were reduced in their care, because there was supposedly no money. So it is; this could have been avoided. The Chamber has a budget right, but this will make it impossible for us to do so, because we will only be told afterwards that the money is there or was there. Yeah, where is it, anyway? Can the leaders indicate where the 2.4 billion-dollar pot went in this budget? Can they tell us where it's going this year? Then we can just change it nicely. Mr. Chairman. It cannot be explained that there is no money for sufficient staff in a nursing home, but that drivers are perfectly able to fill their own pockets. Recently it appeared that 1 in 5 carers deserve more than the norm. Care institutions locked care money, money intended for care, in shady bv-structures. That this is possible is to call it sick. What is the Minister going to do about this and how is he going to ensure that the money for care goes to care, for example to the staff? The cabinet cuts 1.9 billion on care, which has to be collected through care agreements. How this is to be completed is still unknown, but can the directors promise that this will not be at the expense of the working conditions of the care staff? Right now, we're running out of care personnel. It is often not attractive for them to work there. We have to make the job attractive, so keep staff and don't reject it. The good news is that after years of austerity, the next period will be invested in nursing homes, up to 2.1 billion. The Minister already delivered a very nice letter. The SP wants a tough guarantee that every euro of this amount is well spent, not on management but on direct care. The SP therefore asks what is really going on with the personnel occupation standard. Older people's care has changed a lot lately. The nursing homes are gone. We were not in favour of it, but it is. Of course, many people enjoy living at home with the right care for as long as possible, but sometimes it doesn't work anymore. The SP believes that when you get old, you should be able to live in your own neighborhood. We believe in the power of the cohesion of a neighborhood and we believe in care on the scale of the neighborhood. That is why we come up with the initiative of the health centre, in case things don't work out at home alone. A small group of elderly people live together in a care neighbourhood. There are regular care workers with only familiar faces. There may be a walk-in function for the neighborhood, for the elderly in the neighborhood who still live alone but come to help with, for example, cooking and eating. Your partner can come if you move, even though he may not need care. We are already seeing similar initiatives on a limited scale in the country, but often they are for older people with a somewhat thicker wallet. The SP believes that the health care neighborhood should be available to everyone. We want to give back the control of care to them. That is why the SP comes with the Zorgbuurthuis initiative paper. I have a very nice one here, which I'm officially going to hand over to the minister, so he can give it to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u127	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u128	We are very happy to receive a response. I had already heard on the radio that he was at first very excited about the SP-care housing plan. I also see him nodding, so I'm very curious about his reaction. Mr. Chairman. A while ago, we were shocked by the news that there are health care institutions that allow elderly people to pay extra if they fall and need help. Yesterday it appeared that this is at least happening in nine healthcare organisations. The Minister himself says in his letter that this is simply a matter of insured care and that he has thereby created transparency for the patient. I didn't really get that last part. I fell all the way off my chair when the minister referred the patient to the ANBO report. What exactly is the Minister going to do to remove that fine? Because transparency doesn't mean that fines will disappear. Mr. Chairman. Control of your care has proved to be an illusion in many areas. The accessibility of emergency care, for example, is also on the way. While the minister's accessibility standards are being obtained on paper, people are literally in the cold. For the areas of Hengelo, Woerden, Delfzijl and Spijkenisse, control of care has proved to be an illusion. In addition to the disappearance of emergency services, this is often accompanied by the closure of general practitioners' posts, not to mention the closure of obstetrics and intensive care departments. See the recent example in Emmen. It is the madness of major mergers which lead to the concentration of care and closures of essential and necessary facilities in hospitals, while the larger hospitals are not necessarily cheaper or better quality, on the contrary. Essential hospital care therefore moves away from the neighbourhoods. The regional hospital, which was so fought for in the election campaign, is suddenly no longer so important after the elections. It's on the field, this minister says. The population must be known in this. It is not up to the population at the moment and not to the care professional. It has proved to be more of a communication from above, and that is the end of the matter. When does this minister get up and say: I will stop this now; I will make sure that the voice of the people actually counts in this. If, for example, the population in the municipality of Hengelo does not agree with the closure of the hospital, then they should actually be known. I'd like a response from this minister. Mr. Chairman. According to the Minister, what control do maternity caregivers, obstetricians and general practitioners have? This cabinet neatly proposes a tariff increase in this budget. The NZa also set that rate. In fact, caregivers and obstetricians have been given a lot of extra tasks. It is therefore also logical for them to receive this increase in the rate, but health insurers only want to pay the agreed rate if they also participate in the full funding, while this is voluntary. A motion by Mr Leijten has also been adopted in which she says that full funding can only be voluntary. She nods a lot, too, so it's true. General practitioners also need this rate increase, mainly in order to be able to do their job in disadvantaged areas. But the health insurance companies often do not pay this rate increase, even though that is the deal. How is the Minister going to ensure that health insurance companies comply with the commitments? And then don't refer to the NZa. What's this minister gonna do? Mr. Chairman. We see the same problem in the ggz. Healthcare insurers raise money that is intended for the ggz. Last year, there was 300 million structuralally about money remaining on the shelf, but if you add it all together, 1.2 billion has not been spent on care in recent years. Can the Secretary of State indicate where that money went? How does he ensure that the patient is no longer dependent on the health care provider's coulance, but that the care provider and the patient decide which care is needed? If there were treatment stops and waiting lists for breast cancer, the country would be too small. But if you're having severe depression or suicidal and you're not getting any help, that's obviously a given. In fact, the Secretary of State wants to examine the problems in the first place. But we already know these problems, don't we? People don't get help and health insurers don't spend their money on care. What action will the Secretary of State take now? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say the following to the rulers. Give the woman who broke her hip on the sidewalk of the hospital in Hengelo the opportunity to be treated there and not to be taken to Almelo with an ambulance. Give the pregnant woman the opportunity to give birth at the hospital instead of on the highway. Give elderly people the opportunity to live in their neighborhood again. Directors, make sure you go over it again. Don't look away when they're fired, when there are shortages in care or when hospitals close, but get up and take it yourself. Give the care back to the people and to the caregivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u129	The story of Mrs Kooiman has been taken from my heart, but there is one thing that still bothers me a little bit. Mrs Kooiman, like us, is concerned about the fact that we are not actually keeping windfalls in the healthcare budget. She asked the Minister: where is the money going? I do have an answer to that: that money goes to the treasury. This closes gaps in the budget elsewhere, such as in 2015 and 2016 the significant overrun when it came to the invasion of asylum seekers. And then I don't hear the SP being against that. My question is actually: what does the SP choose, choose the influx of asylum seekers or choose care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u130	We choose and-and. We opt for a humane reception of people fleeing war and violence, but we also choose that money for care goes to care. It's not for nothing I call it. I mentioned the under-utilisation of health insurance companies. I also think that the General Court has a point. That is why I refer to it in my speech. I wouldn't want to put up a contradiction here, I don't want to turn people against each other, as the PVV is doing right now. I want to opt for affordable care and I think we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u131	So it can't be both. It just can't be both. Collaborators in care go to the treasury and from there gaps in the budget are closed elsewhere, such as the major exceedances on Security and Justice in 2015 and 2016 after the invasion of asylum seekers. If the SP says she wants both of them, I'll say, "You can't do both." The money remains either in the care or it goes to the asylum seekers, literally. So I hear Mrs Kooiman here opting for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u132	It is always such a pity that the PVV plays people against each other and abandons people who flee war and violence, while they all support wars themselves. She's making the cause worse herself. And then the PVV has a very nice A4' with which she thinks she can cover it all. We have put forward a proposal on the electoral transfer which shows that it can all be done. I myself will come up with motions with which I say: we can bring those failures back. We can control it, we can make sure that money for care goes to care as well. It's okay. It's okay. Let's see where we can find each other instead of letting ourselves play each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u133	I have a question for Mrs Kooiman about Mrs Marijnissen's proposal for the health centre. In my contribution, I said that I like the idea of small-scale housing initiatives in the neighbourhood, but I have serious reservations about the feasibility of this plan. That's why I'm gonna ask you a question about it. I am not talking about structural funding, but first of all about the start-up amount of 100 million. What are we gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u134	The SP has made some very nice suggestions for removing barriers to small-scale organisations, so that people are helped. You yourself mentioned it in your speech: people face a lot of obstacles to achieving this small-scale care. Then we don't need those management layers. We're giving that trust to that care professional, so we can get rid of that clue madness. We believe that this will generate a lot, in such a way that we can achieve this start-up amount. Perhaps you find that very annoying and you have a little less confidence in it. We do have faith in that care professional. We can always see if we can find each other in that cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u135	Beautiful words from Mrs Kooiman, but it is all based on assumptions, and that is not how the budgetary rules are put together. Let me put my question more specifically. What is the SP going to cut 100 million in savings to raise that 100 million as a start-up subsidy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u136	They're not assumptions. I've asked all professionals and professors to watch. They've all thought along, including that financial underpinning. I'm giving you a whole bunch of points that the VVD is unfortunately blind to. I can also say that we are not going to abolish the dividend tax, we are not going to distribute Shell Bonuses, but we are going to subsidise care here. It's a choice. Investing in care is a choice. For example, if you do not abolish that dividend tax, well, then I have a very reasonable coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u137	I hear Mrs. Kooiman talking about the hospitals merging. 50PLUS is also concerned about this. My party is concerned about the accessibility of the care and about the fact that you can no longer give birth in your own neighborhood. But do you agree with us that it would be good if we could organise a number of specialist centres, for example for cancer or any other condition? Do you agree that we organise specialist centres separately so that regional hospital care can be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u138	I think we can do both, actually. But I agree with you that it is very good to see where you have specialist care and knowledge, so that you can also exchange as much knowledge as possible and, if necessary, pool it together. We also have regional centres that take care of cancer, for example. In my speech, however, I spoke mainly about the essential emergency care. If you break your hip, even on the sidewalk of the hospital, you do not have to be taken to another city. Then you just need to be able to be helped in your own neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u139	50PLUS totally agrees with that. But that doesn't change the fact that you can combine those specialties. As long as you make sure that you also keep the acute care, maternity care, outpatient care in the region accessible. That's what I mean, but I actually think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u140	I think we can find each other very well in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u141	The SP talks about making choices. Then I'll take a look at the SP election programme. In the transfer of the Central Planning Bureau Choices in Map it becomes clear that the SP chooses to replace the right to care with a provision. You ask a lot of explanations from the cabinet, but perhaps you can also explain to the people who are watching this debate what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u142	I simply have to come back to this in the second term, because I have no idea what Mrs De Vries is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u143	I always hope people read their plans, but also the CPB pass-through. It clearly states that this is what was chosen. I think it has very bad consequences for the patients. I do hope that you will be able to explain this in detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u144	While the VVD is unable to explain what this has to do with anything at all, we really only have a national care fund in our election programme. In addition, people just get their help, there are no penalties for being sick and we do take care in the neighborhood. That eliminates the VVD. That is the choice of the VVD, but we have chosen to make the care affordable. So I don't have a fund-raiser in what the VVD is talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u145	Mrs De Vries wants to respond to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u146	Yes, chairman, because I'm being challenged. Mrs Kooiman says that I am replacing the right to care with a provision. That means that when the money runs out in August, people have to wait until it's January again before they can be helped. That's what you're proposing in your election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u147	Unlike the VVD, we have actually reserved so much money for the care that people get their care as well. However, we are eliminating our own risk. We do provide sufficient home care. And we don't fire those 77,000 employees. We don't shut down those nursing homes. I can call that a whole list. We come up with alternatives and we come up with a very well-founded plan. I think it's very cowardly of the VVD that they're whining a bit about something they've all cut back on themselves. We do spend money on it, but apparently the VVD doesn't want to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From systems to people. That was the agenda of the previous executive on VWS. We've been four years. The systems are there. And I am also glad that there will be no major changes in the system of care. But the step to people, I think, should be better with each other. That is why D66 advocates peace, simplicity and improvements within the system. The system must become simpler but above all more human, with more customization and less control pressure. The care is stuck in the papers. I indicated last time that the scrapings are good but that much more is needed. It is also about a change in culture and working methods, in which we act on the basis of trust, we give the professional space and the client is central. Reduce regulatory pressure, solve labour market bottlenecks, increase the diversity of living facilities and personal care are the priorities for the coming period as far as D66 is concerned. I am very curious whether the three rulers recognize these spearheads and perhaps embrace them. Mr. Chairman. D66 is also pleased that this cabinet invests heavily in nursing care. We have had several debates on this. That's good. We're behind that. We also signed the PVV motion, but only 4% of our elders live in a nursing home. Most of the people live at home in their own environment. We very much want this cabinet to start with a vision of this, looking at the technological, social and demographic challenges. I think that's very important. Then I have a question about the transition to the nursing home; a number of colleagues have asked the same question. Is it true that people on the waiting list lose their case manager dementia and also get less care? I don't think that's the idea. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I have been working with former Dutch Parliamentary colleague Mona Keijzer since 2014 to ensure that the Wlz is also accessible to ggz clients. Because also in psychiatry there is a vulnerable group that needs care 24 hours a day in the vicinity. I am therefore pleased that the government agreement states that the Wlz will also be opened up to this group, just as the Zorginstituut and the NZa have advised. The Secretary of State has indicated that there will be a bill by the end of 2018, but before that bill comes, a number of investigations and tests will have to be carried out. My question to the Secretary of State is to ensure that this process is transparent, because that has really been lacking in the previous period. When are the investigations going to take place before we get to the stage of that bill? Mr. Chairman. For the group of multiple limited adults and children, the current method of indication and funding offers too little customization. That can be complex and incriminating for them. Following the motion-Bergkamp/Otwin van Dijk from 2014, a report from the NZa and also from Zorginstituut Nederland advised to look for more customisation. But we also read not so long ago in a letter from a ruler that the CIZ should actually do an execution test, but that is what needs to be developed. I would ask the Minister when this will take place and when this group will get clarity and, above all, more tailor-made work. This has been going on since 2014. Mr. Chairman. People who can live responsibly at home must, of course, have the opportunity to do so. For that we have two very nice amenities: the complete package at home and the modular package at home. But these facilities are often unknown to many people. Furthermore, I also get reports that there is a difference between the supply in rural municipalities versus the Randstad and the somewhat larger cities. I think that's a shame, because they're important packages. The NZa would continue to look at the further development of these packages, in conjunction with the customised indication. What about the modular package at home and the complete package at home? Is the Minister prepared to examine what we can do to increase awareness and to see how possible differences in supply can be reduced? Mr. Chairman. The personal budget is a very nice tool for directing people, but in recent years the budget holders have received a great deal of support: the threat of the abolition of the personal budget, increasing regulatory pressure, discouragement from the municipality and also the debacle of the right to draw. It is important to look to the future in this new period. I really hope that the budget holders will have a budget-friendly system. I'm an optimist, but I still doubt this system will ever fly. There's a portal, but if we're talking about the back, what we call the interfaces, we haven't made that road yet. Apart from that, governance is "who's responsible"? It's not clear yet either. That's where it went wrong last time. What is the Minister's impression and what are the plans for the personal budget? I was pleased to read in the Minister's letter that he is continuing the experiments with the integral personal budget, an initiative by Mrs Voortman and me through a motion. We're happy, too. I have to say, that pilot wasn't easy. Let us learn a lot from it and let us also see how we can improve it in the future, because it is a good tool to give people full and integral direction. Mr. Chairman. Then the client support. When people suddenly need support, for example because they end up in social care, or when children have signals that parents can't actually live at home because of old age complaints, a lot of questions come to your attention; then there are many questions coming to your attention. That is precisely why, as a Chamber, we have arranged for an independent client supporter to come, as my colleague from the CDA has already indicated. But we get a lot of signals that quality, findability and independence are not guaranteed everywhere, while the client supporter offers a real outcome for a lot of specific groups. I also think it is important to mention these particular vulnerable groups here; I am talking about the homeless and homeless. It is important that client support is also available for these people. We are therefore very pleased that the Cabinet is making a substantial investment in customer support and we ask the Minister to take into account the signals we received but also to allow specific customer support for these groups when spending these funds. Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned social services. In the book Nothing is forever, which I was offered, very impressive stories of young people about their experiences in social care, for example the story of Nora, who ended up in care with her mother, brother and sister, because in the family there was child abuse. The only thing Nora wanted, she told me, was to be heard, including in social care. It is very good that the mother gets attention in social care, but we often forget about the child. A child also has the right, for example, to look at what is possible and how care can be improved with such customer support. This is another example in which the battle for people could be made more. Children in social care also deserve a voice. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how exactly the Bergkamp motion, which has been taken over, has been implemented and whether he recognizes the importance of customer support for this group. Another question concerns protected housing and decentralisation. The question is, what is the situation with that? We have some serious concerns about this: can this be done now and are the municipalities ready? Perhaps the Secretary of State can give us some more information on that. In addition, extra money has been made available in the coalition agreement for the forensic child abuse. I read the Minister's letter, along with my colleague Rens Raemakers. It is very good that part of the money is spent on knowledge development and exchange, but we wanted to see more forensic doctors specializing in child abuse, also because of the fact that the outpatient clinic in Utrecht is no longer there. So we also want more doctors who specialize in them, so more hands, eyes and ears from those doctors. That is our request. Mr. Chairman. Then something completely different, about STD. In 2015, amendments were made to the Supplementary Sexual Health Scheme. This has changed the risk groups that had first access. I understand there will be an evaluation in 2018. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to take with him the consequences for the fight against STDs of changing that definition. The risk groups that used to be there are no longer risk groups. We are getting some signals that there would also be a turnover ceiling and that people would not be able to get there. I don't think that's the point. Mr. Chairman. Accessibility is also a very important subject for us. I would like to draw particular attention to public transport in this area. There's been a deal. A petition was also handed over to the directors by the B-team of No Limits. What is the situation with regard to public transport, and does the executive also want to show greater ambition in terms of public transport accessibility? We understand there are plans, but what's the space in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u150	A brief interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u151	Mrs Bergkamp has been working for a long time to improve access to transport. That's very nice. It's, of course, part of a broader story. The basis for this is the UN Convention for people with disabilities. I have the following question for Mrs Bergkamp. I searched the coalition agreement, but I couldn't find the resources. How are we going to finance the implementation of the Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u152	Mrs Ellemeet rightly refers to the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. This includes several plans. For example, in the case of public transport, the authorities responsible for this naturally also have their own budget from which they should finance it. That's important. When purchasing new trains we assume that these new trains are accessible and that the adjustment of the platforms is also included. All this is covered by the separate budgets of all those authorities dealing with accessibility. For example, accessible education is included in the education budget. Everyone must feel the responsibility for this and therefore also ensure an inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u153	There is certainly a responsibility for the authorities. But the Human Rights College has called and said that it really isn't going fast enough and that we need to move things more. It also seems to me that there is a coordinating role for the Empire, including resources. How does Mrs Bergkamp see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u154	I am certainly in favour of a coordinating govern ment. I think we have it in our midst today, too. I think that's very good. You're also saying it's not all that fast. I hear good and less good reports about this. For example, I hear good news about companies, which are increasingly committed to this. I got that information from unsuspecting angle, let's just say. I was actually pleasantly surprised by that. But the access to aid dogs has still not been reached. I therefore welcome the fact that there is a coordinating govern ment. I also think it is right for all the different departments within their own budgets to look at how they are going to achieve a number of objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u155	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u156	Because you asked so kindly, Mr. Chairman. I've got a few more topics, but I'm gonna get through it fast. For tools we have been calling for some longer attention, for example for wheelchairs that you are not allowed to take with you when you move, but also for the often poor quality of wheelchair adjustments. I know that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, but if this has been a problem for many years, I also think that it is the role of the govern ment to refer it to the Association of Dutch Municipalities. My final topic concerns the experiments. I am glad that my colleague from GroenLinks has already paid attention to this. Not everything always has to be technically solved or medicalized. Social innovation can already do a lot. An example of this is Mrs Anne-Mei The's experiments, which I am very much in favour of. I ask the govern ment to come up with an innovation agenda. I would also like to be promised that he will at least make this social innovation possible. Mr President, I will conclude. The directors said last week that they chose this portfolio with complete conviction. That's very good and good to hear. I can only say that I am extremely happy to be able to do the beautiful portfolio of care during this period as a Member of Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u157	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra, also from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Care is a sector in which people work day in, day out with heart and soul for others. It is a sector on which many people depend and which offers people a better quality of life. To help people as best they can and to keep care affordable, this cabinet wants to have the right care in the right place. I fully agree with that, but I call on the cabinet to take a critical look at wrong incentives in the system. Let me give you an example. A 90-year-old gentleman comes home to fall and is taken to the hospital. There's nothing they can do for him. The scare is good, but he's just going home. Shortly after, he gets a letter with an appointment with the orthopedic. Questioning shows that this is the standard procedure after a fall and that sir really has to come. But he didn't ask for anything, and he didn't get any complaints from the fall. The general practitioner doesn't think the visit is necessary at all. The question that arises is: is the patient central here or the declaration? Of course, there's another way. I quote a general practitioner in the magazine of the Zorginstituut: "House doctor and specialist must do it together. She and we, that's typical of the old thinking." In the region where this general practitioner works, all general practitioners work together with one hospital. The care and guidance of chronic patients lies with the general practitioner and the practitioners. According to them, standard checks at the hospital do not add anything. According to this GP, the fact that this is often not possible in other places is due to the fact that the principle of remuneration is based on transactions. My question to the Minister is: what will he do to reward the results? How can we promote cooperation? In this context, I also think it is important for more doctors to be employed. Last year, the subsidy scheme was used only very limitedly. In this coalition agreement, money is being released again. How is the Minister going to ensure that more medical specialists take the step towards the participation model or to pay? Mr. Chairman. Patient care is becoming increasingly complex and the general practitioner is getting more and more questions. So we also need to think about how to relieve the general practitioner. I find the commitment of mental caregivers interesting. During a working visit in Rotterdam to a general practitioner's practice I heard about the positive results. Often there is a question of life behind medical complaints, especially with the general practitioner. Patients with such a question feel heard by a mental caregiver, and often after a few conversations they appear to need less care or even no care. This Rotterdam practice is funded through health insurance, but initiatives on mental care and its funding are still very fragmented. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to examine, together with mental caregivers, general practitioners and health insurers, whether structural embedding offers benefits. Mr. Chairman. It is important that we make better use of good examples, which are full of care. Too often pilots are not rolled out wider. That is why I would like to call for a knowledge infrastructure that makes it possible to collect and anchor good examples. Take mProve: five hospitals that join forces and share knowledge and skills. For example, they are working on a method for better communication with people who are low-literate, so that valuable information comes across well. In the Netherlands, we have about 1.5 million low-lettered people. They also often use the care. Improving communication is therefore very relevant for all hospitals. How do we ensure that we share such knowledge more widely? I'd like a response. Innovation and the promotion of e-health are elements of the main agreements. Yet it still plays a small role in the care. De Volkskrant recently had a stimulating headline: Computers might as well recognize diseases as doctors, or better. I would like to hear from the Minister what role he wants to play in implementing such innovative methods. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, the Mars for Life took place, where groups from this Chamber were at the forefront. My group, the D66 Group, insists that women should be able to make their own choice about abortion. I ask the Minister how we will ensure that this is secured now that the CASA clinics are closed. In 2015, it was not the first abortion for more than one in three women who had an abortion. In two thirds of women pregnancy has developed despite the use of contraception. The general practitioner, who knows the patient best, could play a role in preventing repetition and in the proper use of contraception. Would the Minister like to discuss this with the Dutch Family Doctors Society and the National Family Doctors Association? As far as we are concerned, thinking does not stand still and all options can be discussed in that conversation. Mr. Chairman. The prevention of unwanted pregnancy also involves the ability of young people to indicate their wishes and limits. They need to learn how to stay with themselves. Cross-border behavior is still very common, as #MeToo shows. Will the Minister work on the strategic objectives set out in the RIVM action plan? GroenLinks already asked about that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister sent a stand-of-business letter on medical ethics to the Chamber. I am, of course, very curious about the vision. He's coming next year. On one point, however, I would like some clarification. D66 believes that people who see their lives as completed should be able to make their own decisions. But care goes beyond speed, of course. We attach great importance to the careful course taken by this cabinet. We're making work of dignified ageing. In addition, the recommendations of the Schnabel Committee's report are taken on board, so that doctors become more familiar with the space already provided by the Euthanasia Act. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he intends to take the doctors into this. If he also wants to use the expertise of the Life End Clinic, my question is. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet will investigate people who see their lives as completed but are not covered by the criteria of the Euthanasia Act. Unfortunately, the Schnabel Committee gave little insight into the size and desire of this group. I would like to hear from this Minister how he intends to conduct this investigation and who he wants to involve in it. I would also ask him to take into account future scenarios. After all, medical technology makes people grow older and older. The desire to keep your own direction is becoming more and more important. I am assuming that the Minister will take this forward and expect the Chamber to be informed in the first quarter of next year. The subject of "life completed" has triggered a lot of reactions. My question is how we ensure that the social debate reaches different groups and is conducted on the basis of facts and arguments. For from the outset, my group, D66, has said that the subject of life completed is a free matter. I am therefore really pleased that this coalition agreement leaves room for this. In fact, even more important than good care is good health. Prevention is better than cure. D66 is therefore pleased to see that the Secretary of State has already started organising round tables for the prevention agreement. I would like to tell him that it is important for D66 to include organisations dealing with mental health. I would also ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to ensure that the prevention agreement and the sports agreement, aimed at an active lifestyle, reinforce each other. My question to the directors is also what their response is to De Nederlandsche Bank's suggestion to investigate how we can make investments in prevention more rewarding for health insurers, for example through multi-annual insurance policies. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take a look, 'cause my time is limited. I'm moving on to the last block. I have sometimes said that I actually want to end every debate or AO with attention to the care of women, as long as that care is left behind. Progress has been made under the previous cabinet, but the subject must remain on the agenda. Scientists have been ringing the bell recently. In response to a motion by the VVD, which was supported by Parliament at the time, the previous minister stated that, although research is being carried out on small and selected patient populations, for example, in the case of medicinal products, but that there are good reasons for this. But this way, care for women remains worse. Those good reasons do not, as far as I am concerned, outweigh this. That is why once again the appeal to the minister in question to enter into talks with the pharmacy, so that evidencebased does not stand alone for men. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u159	Thank you, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. Mrs. Ellemeet. There you are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u160	Yeah, here I am again. Surprise! It is very good to hear that Mrs Dijkstra also pays so much attention to caring for women. In my contribution I also talked about improving care for women who have to deal with postnatal depression. Is Mrs Dijkstra prepared to work together on this and to look together on how we can actually improve this concern with a number of concrete measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u161	Yes, I must say that I think your amendment is very good, so I like to stick together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u162	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u163	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dijksma, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u164	Mr. Chairman. If you are ill or if someone in your immediate vicinity gets sick, you will notice that everything else becomes insignificant at one stroke. Sometimes even your existence shakes. You want the assurance that you will also be helped, that you will get the care, the attention and the love that is needed, that medicines are also available to you, that you are not alone. And that must be guaranteed. And if that is not the case, then the government, the pharmaceutical company, the health insurance company or the health care institution should be forced to offer that security. Like many of the spokesmen here tonight, I would like to begin with a heartfelt compliment to all those people working in the care that day in, day out with passion, with heart and soul. They are people who often do so with great pleasure, but sometimes also under difficult circumstances. They deserve great respect, I think. It seems obvious that when you're sick, you get the care you need. I've traveled a lot and been able to see a lot of the world. Fortunately, healthcare in the Netherlands is really well regulated, but unfortunately there are still people who are getting into trouble, and we also need to pay attention to that. An important gatekeeper in care is the GP. That's someone that almost everyone in our country has to deal with. More and more we also place responsibility in the hands of the general practitioner. The question that arises is whether the general practitioners are sufficiently capable of doing so. Isn't the workload getting high, for example, when you press hospital care? That is understandable, because these are sometimes very expensive treatments that are not always necessary. You want to move that to the first line, but are you sure that the first line is in order? What turns out is that a few hundred million were previously made available for general practitioner care, but that the Association of General Doctors indicates that this money is not always visible and available. Then we've arranged it well on paper, but in practice something doesn't add up. Who then is responsible for ensuring that the agreements that have been made, including with health insurers, which I will come back to at the end of my speech, are actually implemented? Then who's gonna direct it? Not VWS right now, and I think it should be. Mr. Chairman. I've been a spokesperson on this wonderful subject for a few weeks now. I must say that I have already learned a number of words that I fear qualify as a word of the year. I hope that we can work together to ensure that this does not happen. The fall ticket. That was one of the first subjects on which I was allowed to put oral questions during this period. I remember very well that Minister De Jonge was confronted with it, just like we were through the General Journal. He immediately indicated: this is not possible, this is not by the rules and it should not be. He actually said, "It's probably an incident." Then I insisted on an investigation, but he didn't think it was necessary. That's when we came up with a sample. And what do you see? That sample from 20 large home care institutions shows that 9 of those 20 simply do not comply with the law. I think Mrs. Kooiman was talking about that, too. Then the minister said that ANBO had happily offered to make a hotline and that he would talk to ActiZ. Well, I guess we'll just have to assume we're gonna be okay. My question, with retroactive effect, is whether the Minister is also not happy that he did take that sample and whether he does not think that the NZa might require further investigation. If you get such shocking figures from a sample, you can't stop talking to ActiZ and the hotline, how good compliments for that by ANBO. Then you must somehow ensure that the law as it stands is implemented. Unfortunately it is so that I could not know at that time that in Dordrecht apparently the word "false" is already the word of the year 2017. So we can't get that back, but maybe we can prevent this word from qualifying in 2018. I hope and with me many, I think, that the Minister can do something about that. Then the second theme, the health fall. This was also discussed by Mrs Bergkamp and others. The curious phenomenon is that people who actually have to go to the Long-Term Care Act but are still at home, at the moment they are on the waiting list get less facilities. That leads to a curious situation. You're actually getting worse, you're getting worse, but at the same time you're entitled to less facilities. Now I haven't found Columbus' egg, but I saw a professor suggesting maybe we should make it simpler. I think that is a theme that makes it simpler for these three gentlemen, these rulers. The professor said: can we not agree that you only belong to the Long-Term Care Act, when you are also in a long-term care institution and that as long as you still use the Wmo and live at home, you are covered? By doing so, you avoid, as it were, that you have a decline in facilities in an interim period. It seems simple and I cannot now see what it would mean, but is that a solution and, if so, are the rulers open to this solution or do they have an alternative in mind? Then I'll get to another point. In the General Reviews, we were able to work together as a Chamber to ensure that the district nurses will not have to deal with a reduction of EUR 100 million. That is very good and I am very grateful to all my colleagues in the Chamber for having been able to do so together. But we are not here yet, because we know that the profession of neighborhood nurse should actually become more attractive, because it is good that people can stay home as long as possible. This means that more time is needed for clients and a better salary could also solve labour market shortages. Is such a point about these district nurses now a part of which the Minister thinks: I am working on an elderly pact and I have a number of guidelines in mind for that and this one would be very good at it? The Labour Party's request is to do so. Then good care in the region. In most major cities, you know you'll be in the emergency room soon or the ambulance will be with you soon if you need it. Unfortunately, however, this is not always guaranteed in the countryside and in the villages, and we are also seeing a lot of discussion about emergency aid and its disappearance and about the driving times of ambulances. What is the role that the rulers see for themselves here when it comes to directing? Many questions are asked about them, many written questions as well. I also try to read the answers to that and every time it's about another hospital. Often you see that the answer is: we don't go over it. But that can't be the whole answer, can it? I understand that you cannot always prevent a hospital from being so bad that it falls over, but at the same time there is, of course, a responsibility for care and the provision of care. Here comes the responsibility of the rulers for my taste. My question is this. What role do they see for themselves here? I understand that it is not all possible, but there has to be an alternative, for example, for keeping emergency aid available in a region, because that is, of course, a first need for life for a lot of people. Then the affordability of care. Of course, the thickness of your wallet should never be an obstacle to going to the doctor. Unfortunately, now that the crisis is over, this cabinet has not chosen to reduce its own risk, and it is therefore possible to do so. That's too bad. If you did that, I believe that you could eliminate part of the accumulation of costs in healthcare, which Mr Van den Berg, for example, from the CDA Group, was right to make comments. The time is now ripe and the money is basically there, but it is not chosen. I would like to hear the views of the rulers on the accumulation of costs. How do they intend to do anything about it? Then the theme of making sure you get medicines: that you get them when you need them. I think that many of us sometimes get furious and desperate from the stories that medicines are there, but do not end up with the patient. Due to shady negotiations and ugly tricks of pharmaceutical products, people who suffer from death are sometimes deprived of medicines and we also pay the top prize with each other. After years of trying to change this, I think the patience of many is gone. People need to be sure they get the medication they need. Together with GroenLinks and the SP, we have submitted an initiative paper to break the power of the pharmaceutical industry. It includes long-term measures, but also measures that can be rapidly introduced. Yesterday we received a letter stating that Minister Bruins did indeed succeed. That is really a compliment to Minister Bruins to get the medicine Spinraza available within three weeks for certain patients with a serious disease, the muscle disease SMA. It is very nice and very nice that that has succeeded, because I really believe that it has not been easy, but there is a shadow around it. Because we do not know the exact conditions under which it has succeeded, what price has been paid for it and whether it will succeed in getting it finally available. That actually shows what the need is to do really differently. In the first debate, Minister Bruins spoke very nice and good words about this. I'll hold on to that, too. I look forward to the cabinet's response to our own initiative paper. It is clear that we will not let go of this subject, but I do not believe that the Minister will either. So I look forward to good cooperation on this issue. Then I come to 'our friends from health insurance', and I say that explicitly between quotes. It is good to be sure of good insurance, but the year is coming to an end again and that means that we can pick out a new health insurance together. For some, this really leads to deep frustration: many policies, commercials, different conditions and prices. That doesn't make it easy to make a good choice, although that's important, you want to be sure of a good insurance for a fair price. That is why we have to use the machete through the policy jungle, so that choosing a health insurance becomes a lot easier. Next year we have another choice: 22 natural policies, 27 refund policies, 11 budget policies, 4 combination policies and then the changes in supplementary insurance. The problem is that, although it is a right to change, very few people do. A lot of people actually don't know where to switch and under what conditions. In the end, the Labour Party wants to move towards a single uniform policy for the basic package I share with the CDA, but in the meantime there is already a bit of dry wood to cut, starting with those clone policies. Can't we just ban it? I really can't explain what the advantage of that is. I honestly don't understand what a client's freedom of choice is when it comes to policies with the same insurer, but only with another label, which means you pay more for it. To be honest, that does not seem to me to be the kind of market that makes the consumer better. In fact, it makes it worse, because it is often misguided. I think it is rather strange that we think together that 12 November all agreements are being made on conditions for packages. It's not legally laid down. In the meantime, insurers are hesitant, they still have no clarity and we have to decide before the end of the year. So I also wonder: isn't it wiser now to at least make sure that 12 November actually becomes a legally enforceable date? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to my last block. I would, of course, like to hear the government's position on this. The promise in the coalition agreement for greater transparency and less choice stress, if I may translate it into my words, is very good, but we must of course also see it translated into real deeds. The finances, an important subject. Maybe I can start with the theme of waste. A great deal has been said about this today. We got a lot of e-mails from people. There are people who say they just got a brand-new stair lift. They lived with two partners in one house, where one partner got the stair lift and the other partner will unfortunately soon need a stair lift. The thing is then taken out again first. We have seen it with, for example, the re-indication for mattresses for people with a disease that we know will never get better or die of. There's an endless amount of bureaucracy. That's a lot of loosening. Minister Schippers has previously set up a hotline for this. My question is very simple: what happened to it, what came out of it? In what way can success be achieved in this area in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and their supporters? It's a waste of money, and it's bad for the environment, I'm just saying with a side point. After all, it's a lot of devices that are literally thrown away, while you can just reuse them. So it's bad for our wallet, it's bad for the patients, it's actually bad for almost everyone. Then there is my final point. This is about the financial framework and the healthcare agreements. I understand, like no other, why there's going to be work with a care agreement. But the remarkable thing is that the mathematicians of the Central Planning Bureau were particularly critical about the intention of this cabinet. They have said: the cabinet in the making is reckoned to be rich. That's a lot of money, because it wants to raise 1.9 billion with these care agreements, while at best it could raise 900 million. And that is almost impossible without actually having effects on the quality of the care provided. In other words, that's gonna hurt, and that's gonna cause a lot of trouble. The first question is: why do we have to do that at this time? Why does this have to be like this? What has been done with the opinion of the CPB on this point and how will the rulers choose their commitment? Is that 1.9 billion a hard one or is that a possible commitment? Is there room for discussion with the parties that this might not be wise? In other words, the amount is leading or the content is leading. Secondly, I would like to respond to the also firm criticism of the Court of Auditors that VWS is systematically over-estimated. As a result, VWS is glad with all kinds of windfalls, but they didn't really have to. In other words, there is too much squeeze in the budget, then it is not so bad later, then we are all very happy, but actually we have caused problems. What are you gonna do about it? Are you planning on doing something about it? It should be, I guess. And I would welcome that, too. The last point remains the direction. You're gonna make those care agreements. That's still a black box. Of course, the Chamber has little influence on that. You come up with an outcome and then you say it's up to the parties to execute it. But the example of the general practitioners shows that everyone with his good behavior then frees a few hundred million for general practitioners, but that this does not end up with the general practitioners. How are we going to prevent that in the future? That must really be possible. Mr President, this was my contribution. I wish the rulers a great deal of success and a great deal of fighting. The latter will also be needed here and there. We will, of course, support all the good proposals and hopefully change the slightly less good ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u165	I tried to hold back, but I can't do it anymore. I listened to Mrs Dijksma. Her party has been on the buttons for four years when it comes to care. Mrs Dijksma takes a number of points out that score nicely and that she wants to tackle, but I haven't heard a start on a vision from Mrs Dijksma. The previous spokesmen on the concern of the Labour Party, Otwin van Dijk and Mrs Bouwmeester, defended the policy of the previous cabinet. It cannot be both true, so I would like to know from Mrs Dijksma what her vision of care is, and not just loose ends for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u166	I do not know what Mrs Gerbrands' appreciation of my story is, but I have really tried to outline on many topics what the Labour Party stands for. You can agree with that. You can disagree with that, too. It may be a different view than you have on some points, although there may also be similarities, perhaps to your surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u167	Of course, we agree with a number of points, which we simply introduced in the previous period. The PvdA has systematically voted against it, so it is a profit that the Labour Party now wants it to. But it can't be both true. First, the biggest degradation policy of the past decades is defended with extremeness, and then not with "we agreed and the VVD wanted to do so" but because it would all get better and this would really be the best thing. Now these kinds of stories are being kept. I can't reach that. It doesn't have to be now, but in the future I'd like to hear more vision of care. Is it the previous story or will it be the new story of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u168	I notice that the spokesmen of the PVV Group are showing themselves today as those who take the most measure. Of course, I'm used to that, but I'd like to say one thing back. I would like to ask Mrs Gerbrands if she would like me to read slowly or graciously all the agreements that her group supported when she accepted the Rutte 1 cabinet. Go ahead, Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u169	First, nearly a billion was invested in the care of the elderly. During that period, I was the spokesman for curative care. We have taken painful measures, which I have defended by saying 'we have received some in return and we have made the choice to turn them in'. I didn't keep a holadijee story like the Labour Party, like you did the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u170	I believe the answer is "slowly terrifyingly." Let me give you a few examples. Fewer people got care allowance. That cost those people 2 billion, because that was cut back. The own risk was increased at the time. I didn't. I didn't. The package got smaller, I believe with EUR 1.2 billion. What do I mean by this? It's just a few examples. Yeah, of course we've all been so responsible. As Mrs Gerbrands says, there are things you think you've done very well. Things have also happened that you think "well, you could have done better" or the effects of which you don't like. But I am surprised by the tone with which you constantly take others' standards, while you yourself have enough responsibility in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u171	This is my second interruption, so that's not so bad. We have increased our own risk from €175 to €220. The Kunduz coalition increased that from €220 to €350 or €365. I was just saying, we've made choices. But we have explained that we did not make those choices because we were so pleased with them, but because it was part of the agreements. My reproach to the Labour Party is that she defended it as if it were the best idea ever. You're just gonna keep doing that. Because in all the debates I have had so far with Mrs Dijksma, she has not yet said that we should not have done so. It would be a pleasure for you to say so, Mrs Dijksma. Then your input would be much more credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u172	Actually, that's not true. Last week we had a debate on labour market policy. That's where the switch was made. Yes, I choose my own words and my own tone. Yeah, we've been taking responsibility in a very difficult time. That was exactly the time when there was a huge economic crisis in the Netherlands. There was one party that then caused us to get into an election process and run away very fast from responsibility, and that was, it won't surprise you, your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u173	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start this debate with Anja. Anja van Herp is my patient gift. Many colleagues, like me, are in contact with a chronically ill patient. For me, it is very valuable to be in touch with people who experience how our healthcare system works. If we want to put man at the centre, we cannot get around these experiences. Sometimes it's hard to imagine what a law changes in the daily life of a chronically ill person, but now Anja holds a mirror for me. The fact that she's involved in this project is something I find very brave of her. Mr. Chairman. One of the reasons for the Patient Gift project is the accumulation of care costs. People like Anja often make up their own risk and also have to pay several other contributions. I am glad that this but also other concerns of Anja have been given a place in the coalition agreement. I hope that in the coming years it will also keep me on track of its implementation. The Christian Union considers that insured persons, clients and patients are central and deserve control over their care. It is therefore a good thing that this cabinet wants to regulate the participation and influence of clients and insured persons legally. I want to build my contribution along three lines: prevention, curative care and long-term care. First of all, prevention. Last week I organized a minisymposium in the framework of the Week of Life together with the VBOK. That was about unintended pregnancy. Here, among other things, a teenage mother spoke. I asked her after what she thought was really necessary. She said: more education in schools, because at 15 you're really not concerned with the idea of getting pregnant. This shows the value of a prevention agenda and care in unintended pregnancies. For the summer, the then State Secretary indicated that health care organisations Fiom and Siriz would have the same budget in 2018 as in 2017. Can the Secretary of State undertake that funding will indeed continue for 2018 and that, on top of that, the money set aside for a prevention agenda in the coalition agreement? When will we be clear about the use of this additional EUR 53 million? Will the Secretary of State ensure that this money is actually used for the purpose for which it is intended? I come up with malnutrition in the elderly. Combating malnutrition in the elderly is also an important form of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u175	Mrs Dik talks about the importance of neutral choice aid. This is indeed extremely important for young women, who are sometimes attacked by the situation. This weekend there was a parade in the framework of the Week of Life, a manifestation on which Siriz's driver also participated. That is one of the two parties that are supposed to offer neutral choice aid, but they are so clear in favour of a position that can hardly be seen as neutral. What does Mrs Dik think of this combination of efforts which, in my opinion, are very difficult to reconcile?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u176	I do not know whether Mrs Ellemeet and Siriz have met. Siriz is really doing his best to offer neutral choice help. And I am confident that they will succeed. They do, and FIOM does. I also think this is the beauty of the Mars for Life: there are all kinds of people involved around the theme of the protection of life, but there is a strong eye for reality. Call it the brokenness of the new life. There is an eye for that choice-help for women.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u177	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u178	I have indeed spoken with Siriz, and that conversation stressed once again that it is a question of neutral support for choice. But isn't that compatible with the fact that a driver speaks out on such a weekend in a Week of Life? That's a completely different position, isn't it? How can I trust, if they are so clearly in a position on this very sensitive subject, that they really offer that neutral choice help?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u179	To be honest, I find it difficult to respond to this, because I could not be present at the Mars for Life; I was abroad. That means I haven't been able to hear what was expressed publicly by Siriz's directors. As far as I know, those people haven't spoken either, but it was the VBOK who spoke. This is going to be a very difficult discussion, also because it is about statements made by people who are not here. Maybe it's good to continue the conversation at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u181	Mr. Chairman. It is good for the well-being of people and also has a beneficial effect on healthcare costs if we are able to combat malnutrition in the elderly. In recent years, the Malnutrition Steering Group has contributed to the implementation of the screening and treatment of malnutrition in hospitals and institutions. Within the first line, however, there are still major steps to be taken, especially in view of the increasing number of elderly people living at home. This has also recently been demonstrated by a round table organised by ChristenUnion and VVD. It is important that the Malnutrition Steering Group be able to continue its activities in the area of awareness-raising, prevention, signalling and treatment of malnutrition and move on to the first line. That is why I am considering tabling an amendment which makes a limited budget available for this purpose. I also have an amendment in preparation concerning diabetes and age-related diabetes in children. As paradoxical as it sounds, as a result of sneak sugar, sometimes children get diabetes very early or even type 2 diabetes. There is still too little attention for this group. A multidisciplinary directive for good care is lacking. My proposal is to move the medical world with a limited budget. We need to look over our own walls so that we can develop a network directive together. Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with the National Prevention Agreement. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this will be a broad agenda to promote health. The cabinet strives for a smoke-free generation. When can the Court receive a plan of concrete measures for this purpose? Where does the Secretary of State intend to stand at the end of this cabinet term? When it comes to alcohol policy, it is good that problematic alcohol consumption among older people is also included in the Prevention Agreement. There is every reason to do so with over 1 million problem drinkers in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. It is good that extra money is being spent on suicide prevention. The Christian Union has always advocated this. What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms to achieve a revised action plan together with parties such as 113Online? Mr President, I come to curative care. The substitution of the second line to the first line is an important movement where major steps can still be taken. Already, primary care, especially the general practitioner, is under great pressure because of the large number of patients per general practitioner and the care for vulnerable elderly and ggz patients. The administrative agreement for 2018 agreed to address these bottlenecks and additional money was made available. But it seems that health insurance companies are not contracting enough to address these bottlenecks. So the substitution cannot be successful. How does the Minister for Medical Care intend to ensure that this money remains available to deal with bottlenecks and, better still, is actually used for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. Machteld Huber's concept of positive health is gaining ground, and that is good. Health is no longer seen as the presence or absence of disease, but as the ability of people to deal with the physical, emotional and social challenges of life and to direct themselves as much as possible. Does the Minister agree with me that positive health deserves broad consideration in the care sector and should therefore also be included in the main agreements? In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the good talk between doctor and patient about quality of life, rather than the primary focus on medical treatment. How does the Minister intend to make more room for this in the office? Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, additional funds were also allocated to palliative care and its organisation. The latter is very important, because palliative care is still in its infancy. It is important to bring all initiatives together and strengthen each other. How does the Minister intend to strengthen the organisation and coherence of palliative care? And does he want to involve both professionals and volunteers? The National Programme Palliative Care expires in 2020. The Christian Union considers it important that this follow-up be carried out and that preparations are also started in good time. Finally, on this point, I would like to ask whether the Minister would like to make some of the resources available for the implementation of the Quality Framework palliative care. I come to long-term care. The Christian Union is very pleased that the Manifest Ageing, an initiative of the Christian Union together with KBO-PCOB and Omroep MAX, has been given a place in the coalition agreement with a nice budget. Now it's up to the execution. In his letter on the Pact for care for the elderly, the VWS Minister has given a place for dignified ageing, but he does not turn it into a separate policy programme. In what way is the Minister going to work on Vigile Ageing? And how does he ensure that the manifesto is implemented in its entirety? For it is more than the fight against loneliness. For example, it is also about re-evaluation of old age, about suitable forms of housing and about the guidance of people with questions about life. Together with the CDA, the Christian Union has worked several times for spiritual care. The Quality Framework for Nursing Home Care now includes that clients should have access to mental care appropriate to their beliefs. In practice, however, it appears that mental care is often under pressure due to unclear funding or because it is at the expense of other care. Is the Minister prepared to have the Health and Youth Inspectorate set up to carry out a thematic research into the accessibility and reimbursement of mental care in order to gain a better understanding of the bottlenecks? I'm gonna go to nursing school. Evaluations show that the involvement of the care provider in the kitchen table and the assistance service often does not go beyond the placing of a check mark: yes, it is informal care. At the same time, these carers are very much called upon. The cabinet allocates extra funds for daily spending and respite care. But how does the Minister intend to ensure that care is also an integral part of good care? Mr. Chairman. I, as well as others, have often drawn attention to the group of multi-complex disabled children. Of course, all care is tailor-made, but this is especially true for this group, for the group of children who are multi-complexly disabled. The Christian Union has often insisted on the customised profile. Last summer, a working group, with parents, started to visualise child-by-child situations and to see what is needed for these children and families in the medical and social fields. From this experience, the custom profile can be completed further. When will the Chamber hear more about this? Others have also mentioned the transition from Wmo to Wlz. During the transition from the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act to the Wlz, the Long-Term Care Act, people are paying a much higher own contribution while being given less care while waiting for a place in a nursing home. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this crisis of concern and, of course, possible ways of resolving it? I have previously asked written questions about the lack of funding rules for the reimbursement of meals according to religious practices. Can the Minister promise that kosher meals will continue to be part of the Wlz care component? Then care for people with dementia. If you hear the diagnosis of dementia, your world will be turned upside down. It is so important that case managers have dementia available from the first "not fluff" feeling. Of course good care is important, but the Christian Union is also very charmed by the social approach as Anne-Mei The conveys it. Connecting care with well-being leads to a higher well-being of the dementing and the caregiver, and ultimately also leads to lower care costs. Is the Minister prepared to support experiments on this? Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, a round table was held here in the Chamber about euthanasia in psychiatry and dementia. It indicated from several sides that there is a need for more expertise in the regional review committees in the assessment of euthanasia in psychiatric patients. Is the Minister prepared to include this point in his response to the third evaluation of the euthanasia law? And can he indicate when there will be a revision of the NVvP directive on euthanasia in psychiatry? The current directive is already eight years old. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns social service. Together with the CDA, the Christian Union has made an effort to enable young people to contribute to our society for a short period of time for a small fee. There is also a substantial budget available for this. How will the Secretary of State set up this project and which organisations will he involve? Mr. Chairman. I wish the Secretary of State and both ministers much wisdom and courage to give their hands and feet to the plans in the coalition agreement in the coming years. I also look forward to answering the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u182	I heard about the elderly pact. I have also been able to read your speech in the newspaper in which you say that you want older people to be able to be accompanied and cared for in the neighbourhood or at least in a small way. Actually, I'm curious what you think of the Zorgbuurthuisplan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u183	From the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u184	From the SP, I'm sure. It was given during this debate. I have already been able to read about it in the media, as our initiative has already been announced in the media. I'm gonna take a really good look at it, but my first impression is that it looks good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u185	That's always nice to hear, very nice. Is it perhaps an idea to ask the Minister to see where there are bumps in practice? For example, the VVD group indicated that in practice there are quite a few people who want to take these initiatives, but that it appears to be very difficult. Can we ask the Minister to see how we can overcome that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u186	You would have asked the Minister to do the same. You're gonna ask me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u187	I have a wide portfolio; yesterday I had the WHO Living. In doing so, I asked the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to identify the bottlenecks in legislation and regulations. In the end, this was also the subject of a motion. I think that is very much needed, because there are indeed many people now who want to take an initiative, but who do not get through the procedures and who have difficulty in getting in touch with developers and municipalities. That's definitely something that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u188	So you're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u189	Mr President, my last sentence. I think this also ties us in: it is important that we look not only at private initiatives but also at housing companies. That too has been given a place in that motion. So I think he can count on the support of the SP as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Earth Overshoot Day is the day of the year when humanity has used as much raw materials as Earth can produce in one year worldwide. This day will fall for the first time in July next year. We drain the earth with overconsumption, pollute our air and spray it with agricultural poison. Nature is increasingly disappearing from our immediate surroundings. This has major consequences for the health and well-being of humans and animals. Mr. Chairman. 1.9 billion people are overweight. That's more than the 815 million people who go to bed with hunger every night. Meanwhile, television stations make money with programmes about losing weight. At the same time, multinationals are trying to seduce us with huge marketing budgets to buy unhealthy products. The way we produce and consume, and the way we deal with the earth reflect how we deal with our own health and how the government deals with public health. Much can still be achieved in the area of prevention, so that we live longer and live longer healthy lives. Making choices takes courage to dare reflect on unhealthy habits. The prevention of diseases is not only better than cure, it is essential to keep our healthcare system affordable. The Animal Party fears that prevention policy will mainly be a collection of good intentions. I ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on the prevention policy of the past cabinet periods, because this has not produced any significant results. Do we spend EUR 170 million on sponsorship money for multinationals or are we going to take concrete measures that really work, such as fewer tobacco outlets and binding agreements on salt and sugar content in food products? In any case, it is important not to show double standards by using vegetable gardens at every primary school on the one hand, but at the same time increasing VAT on fruit and vegetables at the same time. Mr. Chairman. A number of measures have been proven effective. First of all, we eat more meat than is healthy for us. Our overconsumption leads to increasing risks of cardiovascular disease, and as far as red meat is concerned, a higher risk of cancer. If we really want to promote our health, then we really need to do something about this overconsumption. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this overconsumption of meat is bad for public health, for the environment, for the climate and for biodiversity? The Party for Animals would like to see healthy and sustainable eating in schools and sports and healthcare institutions. Does the Secretary of State see that importance and is he going to encourage it? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, I would like to support the not to be underestimated importance of a healthy start for children and the key role of breastfeeding. For example, breast milk is precisely tailored to the nutritional needs of the child and the immune system is optimally developed, so that the baby is protected from all kinds of infections. Recent studies also show that breast-feeding gives a natural sense of saturation to babies, which can be developed and thus contribute to reducing overweight in children. Does the Secretary of State recognize the importance of breast-feeding? How is this cabinet going to facilitate the optimal information and incentives for mothers to breast-feed longer? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, research carried out by Wageningen University & Research has shown that people with more nature in their environment are more comfortable, less sick and more connected to the neighborhood. Is the Secretary of State prepared, in cooperation with his many colleagues in the Cabinet, to come up with a legal standard for urban greens which is in line with the United Nations standard, namely 48 m per city or village resident? And today 170 lung doctors and the Long Fund sent a letter of fire to the Chamber about the enormous impact of dirty air on our health. Does the Minister for Medical Care share the concerns of this letter of fire? Mr. Chairman. Each pound goes through the mouth is not only about what one eats and drinks, but also about what one encourages others to eat or drink. Last year, former Secretary of State Van Rijn made agreements with the Dutch Food Industry Federation to stop child marketing for children up to 12 years old. But where K3 and the Minions belong on television, they are still in the supermarket a year after the agreements made. These children's idols respond to the experience of children, so they take more sprinkles, more lollipops and more ice. The conclusion is that the promises made by the industry have been worthless. That brings me to my fourth measure. Let us ban the marketing of candy and fast food for children up to 12 years old. The industry itself admitted last year that the current situation is undesirable, but apparently it needs the Chamber to keep its commitments. Does the Secretary of State and the Animal Party consider that child marketing does not fit into the prevention-oriented cabinet policy? Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with binding legislation, because what is stopping us? Mr. Chairman. Then there is my fifth and final example of prevention measures. Research shows that bringing pets to the elderly or nursing home has a positive impact on the health and general well-being of the elderly. It is possible in more and more healthcare institutions, but not always and everywhere. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the starting point should be that the pet can always come along? Mr. Chairman. Everyone has the right to care. That is why we need to put an end to the accumulation of healthcare costs, which sometimes puts people in serious financial difficulties. A person who is ill should be able to pick up his prescription medicine from the pharmacy without being burdened with additional costs, such as the additional pharmacy advice costs, which many people simply cannot afford. Do the Ministers recognise this problem and what are they going to do about it? Mr. Chairman. We must show great appreciation for all those caregivers doing all that hard work that day in, day out. This is something we have seriously neglected in recent years by cutting back on care jobs with the blunt axe. I ask the VWS Minister whether he shares the view that reducing taxes on labour and increasing taxes on raw materials and unhealthy products can be the right incentive for health care institutions to get more hands on the bed. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I hope to have made it clear that the way we deal with our planet, our environment and each other, is reflected in the state of public health. It is therefore the duty of the government to protect them optimally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u192	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start by apologizing if I might address a minister when it's the Secretary of State, or the other way around. So that can happen. I see I have eight minutes less than I thought. So I am going to hurry, because this is one of the most important budgetary debates there are, not only because care is the biggest bite in the budget, but above all because the extent of our civilisation can be measured by the way we take care of each other. We all want an inclusive society in which everyone participates. If you can't, we'll help you. We feel that as a moral responsibility. Within that concept, it is not appropriate for gross profits to be made over the backs of sick and needy people. As far as we are concerned, therefore, market forces in the care sector have gone far too far. We ask organisations on the one hand to cooperate with each other, but at the same time they have to compete with each other. I can't. This is at odds with each other, but when I read the coalition agreement, I notice that this cabinet is also running counter to the limits of market forces. I read that between the lines, for example if you want to encourage medical specialists to go on permanent duty or if you want to improve the system of market operation even more, where necessary. 50PLUS would like to know what else you think is needed and what you want to change. What is needed is necessary, but how do we contain the cost of care? According to 50PLUS, this is not by placing more on the shoulders of the citizens by increasing their own risk or the premium. Care money must remain care money. If profits do not have to be distributed to shareholders, more money remains available for care and research. Also in municipalities care money leaks away. If Wmo funds remain, as in 2015, 1.2 billion, then they can simply return to the general reserve. If that money had been used, there would not have been so much need to be cut down on domestic aid or decent rates could have been paid for youth care. The tendering system sometimes provides for homicidal tariffs, which prevent small healthcare institutions from surviving, let alone growing or innovating. Too often we hear about care stops or threats in youth care, in ggz and in community care. And then this cabinet puts a little bit of pressure on the healthcare institutions by threatening to use the macro-management instrument if the main agreements to be concluded do not deliver the expected results. If more care is provided than is budgeted, the care institutions will have to pay for the care out of their own pocket. This is one of those tools that you use when you assume that healthcare providers are deliberately providing more care, because they could earn more. Is that the perspective you want to convey to the care workers? Of course, care money must be handled wisely and critically, but you can also go crazy, and that is what is happening. This coalition wants to achieve 1.9 billion by means of a broad agreement, while the CPB estimates that 0.9 billion is the maximum achievable. How do you explain that big difference? At the General Reviews we agreed fortunately that we will keep the district care out of the cuts. That's very good, but it does mean that you intend to get the money from somewhere else. I would like to know from the Ministers and the Secretary of State where they want to cut that extra billion. One of the great frustrations throughout the healthcare field is the procurement circus. Contracting is a legal speciality and it is so complicated that it requires specialists. A smaller care institution doesn't have that know-how in the house anyway. And with a small tender, it costs €30,000 to hire someone for that. Minister De Jonge, as alderman in Rotterdam, sounded the alarm bell about this. He sounded a big alarm. In the meantime, the alderman is a minister and he's on the buttons himself! During the Youth legislative consultation, he already promised to investigate the best practices of the municipalities, but I immediately found him a lot more reluctant than when he was alderman. Then he said that there were about 100 employees working on a tender. That is undoubtedly a multiple of that €30,000. So we ask the Minister to stick to his findings as alderman, because aldermen are also the ones who ultimately have to carry out the tasks. I'd really like to get a reaction. One way to save money is to buy medicines at European level. Because too often we are being held hostage by pharmaceutical companies to pay astronomical prices for some medicines. I would therefore like to ask you, together with your foreign colleagues, to make a point of this in Europe. In addition, we must enable pharmacists to make their own medicines. This is not only better for the price, but also for the tailor-made for the patient. We will come back to the VAO Medicines. I am still setting out examples that can produce money without this happening across patients' backs. There has recently been a trial of health insurance company VGZ. In that trial, VGZ encouraged a number of general practitioners to take smaller practices. Instead of 2,200 patients, for example, they only had 1,800. The result was that there were general practitioners who gave a consultation of fifteen minutes instead of ten minutes. And what's pale? The number of referrals to a specialist decreased significantly, as well as the number of written prescriptions for medicines. This makes everyone happier; the doctor and the patient. And it could also save a lot of money. What does the Minister think about a broad implementation of this experiment? Is he prepared to pass on the costs and benefits of this experiment? You can spend time wrong, too. A great stone of offence is the bureaucracy and the excessive administration in the care. There's gonna be a lot of hours in there that don't go to health care. Moreover, it is also a bit of a vote of no confidence towards the caregivers. Each municipality and every health insurance company has its own declaration system. That needs to be standardized. I have heard a large number of colleagues today about waste in care and stair lifts disappearing on the scrap heap. It also happens that someone with a wheelchair who moves, has to turn in their custom-made wheelchairs that nobody else fits in, in order to apply for a new custom-made wheelchair in the region where he then goes to live. His custom-made wheelchair is stashed somewhere in a storage facility. That's real money to throw away. Another way of saving money is a tight fight against fraud. Recently there was another case of a youth care provider who put the pgbs in his pocket as a whole and put young people in a room without giving any proper care. We've seen those cases before. What stands out is that such a course of action takes far too long, when everyone actually knows that it is wrong. It's just that we need to intervene a lot sooner. How come this doesn't happen? I'd like a reaction to that. So far, there are a number of measures that can help us to reduce the cost of care, without having to do so over the backs of vulnerable and sick people. Prevention is of course also a very important element to save, because prevention is better than cure; we have heard it a few times this evening. So far, prevention has been a bit dependent on it, while there is so much to be gained. We really need to think differently about that. We are far too focused on healing and not prevention. The European Commission has asked Member States to invest more in preventive healthcare, as only 3% of our healthcare budgets are spent on prevention, says the Commission. On the other hand, 80% go to disease treatment. That's a crooked affair, isn't it? Fortunately, this coalition sees that as well. Money is earmarked for prevention and there is a national prevention agreement in the making. Firstly, there must be an improvement in lifestyle. Around 60% of the 50-plussers are overweight. This is also an increasing problem for young people. Action is therefore needed. 50PLUS has mentioned it before: for example, over a million people in the Netherlands have lifestyle-related type 2 diabetes. According to Leid's research, 40% of people with type 2 diabetes can get off the medication because of lifestyle change and more movement. That's 2 to 3 billion in healthcare costs. That is a significant amount of money. Several conditions are lifestyle-related. In hospitals and in the home situation, more attention needs to be paid to this, but also to education. The commitment must be not only to raise awareness, but also to make it possible for people to live healthier lives, for example by reducing sugar, salt and fat levels in food. I also liked Mrs Dik-Faber's contribution on this. But good exercise is also important. Good exercise is actually very illuminating with any condition, even in mental disorders. Sitting is the new smoking, is also said. Well, the previous cabinet wanted at least three hours of gym class at primary school, but it didn't work out. Such a shame! Is that what this coalition is going to do now? 'Cause if you're gonna move well, you're gonna have to start on time. I'd like a response. Insurance companies must also assume their responsibilities. Lifestyle improvement should no longer be included as a nice bonus in an additional policy, but as a starting point. Local authorities are also responsible for this, because prevention is partly covered by the Wmo. But it is precisely because of this that the supply changes very strongly. A professor said last week that the non-committality should be removed. That's the way it is according to 50PLUS. How does the Secretary of State view this? It is really very good that there is a lot of attention to prevention in children. It has to stay that way. But there should also simply be more attention and remain in favour of preventing or reducing damage to the elderly. One of the prevention coalitions is clearly focused on the elderly. What's the status now? Then the importance of nutrition. Nutrition is also extremely important in healthcare training, from nursing level 2 to the doctor. I heard a doctor say that in his entire training he only learned about nutrition for about five minutes. Nutrition is the baby in the care. In nursing homes, nutrition assistants have been cut off. In home care, caregivers hardly have the time to do their job. We heard in the hearing that sometimes there is a choice between an extra employee and more money for good food and then the choice falls on the extra employee. I understand that, but there really shouldn't be that choice, because they're both equally important. The same applies to the home situation. It is important that general practitioners and district nurses pay attention to nutrition and act accordingly. At present, only three hours of dietetics are reimbursed from basic insurance. For people with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and COPD, this is exempt from one's own risk. Fine, but that's not nearly enough, because many people need much longer guidance to change their diet. The combined lifestyle intervention, the gli, a treatment for overweight and obese people with a focus on nutrition and lifestyle, would be reimbursed from the basic package as of 1 January. Is that right? Mr President, the clock makes me nervous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u194	Mrs. Sazias. You really don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u195	Okay, then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u196	You're about time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u197	Thank you. Shingles!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u198	Mr. Chairman. That's a very painful disease. I hope you've never been affected by it, but it's a disease that affects the elderly in particular. It's also very contagious. Especially in nursing homes where many elderly people are close together, that virus has free rein. Last year, the Health Council recommended that the shingle vaccine Zostavax should not be included in the public vaccination programme. The government took over, but the Health Council wasn't unanimous. Two members of the Health Council found the vaccine essential care because of the protection it provides against nerve pain. We have mentioned this before in a debate, but 50PLUS is very curious how the new minister looks at this. There will be a prevention agreement. Is it not possible to release funds from the prevention agreement to make the vaccine available to the most vulnerable elderly? Fall prevention. A few colleagues have already mentioned this. More and more elderly people are dying from a fall. The CBS has even calculated that more than six times as many elderly people are killed by a trap than in traffic. So something really has to happen there. Also according to the Bosatlas of safety, a fall is one of the greatest risks of death by an external cause. The directive on the prevention of falls for the elderly has just been renewed, and that is very good. But more is needed to reverse this, initially for the person himself, but also to avoid high care costs and reverse congestion of the emergency services. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take swift action here and make the budget available as soon as possible? The penalty for people who press the alarm button too often has also been mentioned a number of times. There's gonna be an investigation right now. You want the NZa to investigate that. 50PLUS calls on you to simply put an end to this acutely. You have already said that it does not really belong and that it has already been paid for. So what else would we be investigating? It just needs to be done. By the way, one of the causes of falling can be medication. Older people often take a lot of medication. It's called polyfarmacie. They've often been doing that for many years in a row. We believe that the standard for people taking multiple medications should be a medication assessment to see if the drugs are still needed and if they are not working against each other. There is no clear remuneration for that. There are insurance companies that make up for that without their own risk. Fine. But there are also insurers who don't. Does the Minister agree with us that a drug assessment can yield a lot and should therefore be reimbursed by default without any risk? Then nursing care. Last year Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers came up with their manifesto Sharp on elderly care. That's taken a hell of a lot out of it. All parties in the Chamber have embraced that manifesto. The quality of life of people in a nursing home is really under pressure and that is not up to the caregivers, because they are really doing their very loving best, but because of a structural understaffing they are simply under too much pressure and there is no time for a little extra attention. And attention is the most important thing, which is often lacking. Severe loneliness, lack of meaningful daywork. A quarter of people rarely or never come out. That attention doesn't necessarily have to come from highly educated nurses. From 2017 onwards, 100 million will be added structurally. But how can we be sure that this money comes to the right place? Not like we saw in Lopik at a nursing home that had enough money, but still put one awake night shift on 60 people. Then, of course, action must be taken first, with a lot of tatarata, and then it will be repaired eventually, but that should not be necessary. We would like that money to be earmarked for extra hands and attention to the quality of life in the form of welfare activities. The Social Planning Bureau also agrees that these welfare activities are under pressure. Fortunately, there are institutions where the neighbourhood is involved in a creative way, but the hard cuts in well-being in recent years have led to this being the responsibility of volunteers, and they are far from always and everywhere being available to the same extent. How is the Minister going to make sure this money ends up in the right place? Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers get annoyed by the fact that it doesn't work out with the performance. The elections have been, the cabinet has been formed, what will the Minister do to bring about a breakthrough now? You have extra money for nursing care, what are you still hindering in execution? As has already been mentioned, older people living at home also need more attention. 92% of the elderly live at home with care. The support is mainly regulated by the municipalities. 50PLUS has often indicated that the differences between municipalities are too large. Also tonight we heard a few examples of this. However, we would like more national directives to be introduced so that there is more equality, because sometimes it can really matter whether you live 50 km away. There are still too many court cases on careless decisions taken by a municipality. That takes money and time, while the client has to wait for the necessary care at that time. It is especially important that care in the district is properly arranged, with the general practitioner and the nurse as the key. These people are very close to the people and know exactly what people need. Give these people the confidence, but also the space and do not throw their plates ever fuller. Both hear a lot of noises about too high working pressure and overload. An experiment such as the VGZ, with smaller general practitioners, can remove a lot of workload. I sincerely hope that the Minister will dive into this and pass on the result. The general practitioner and the district nurse are the ears and eyes in the neighborhood and can signal like no other when something is not going well, such as isolation and malnutrition. You can imagine that before an older person goes to a nursing home, it already precedes a whole range of ever more intensive surrounding care, with increasingly complex problems. About 30%, a third, mind you, of the elderly living at home with care is malnourished. That is one of the reasons why people fall: medication and malnutrition. 50PLUS believes that this really needs to be given substantial attention. As we understood in the hearing, the problem is that there is no owner of this problem. I've talked to a lot of district nurses and they tell me that they do this and they do that out of love often add a little bit, put a sandwich or put something in the microwave. But that is not part of their task package, even though they are already overburdened. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister who owns that problem of malnutrition. It really is a problem that needs to be addressed. We are happy with the subscription rate for the Wmo. That's good news for people who need support. The VNG has already indicated that the municipalities do not have enough money for this. How's the cabinet gonna compensate for that? Hopefully the rulers will give me an answer to that. Then the carers. As Kim Putters of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says, volunteers and carers are the cement of society. What should we do without the 4 million carers in the Netherlands, people who care for someone carelessly? This is also one of the most important pillars of our concern. In 2013, the Social and Cultural Planning Agency calculated that caregivers give us more than 6.5 billion in healthcare costs. So I'd say ample facilitation for those carers. But the Carers' Association of Interests, Mezzo, has called for a number of laws and regulations which discourage the care of the family, such as the household allowance, the co-hire and the job application obligation. When people need a permit for a family home, they need a family care certificate, but some municipalities do not accept doctor's statements and require additional research. In fact, it is true that such a statement of care does not exist legally at all. 50PLUS considers that a uniform national form is needed, with the signature of the general practitioner sufficient. What is the Minister's reaction to this and would he like to work it out? Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that this cabinet is taking up the manifesto of malicious ageing. You can see, like 50PLUS, that care for the elderly really needs an extra boost. That manifesto says you want to do everything you can to prevent loneliness. And that is badly needed, because over 1 million 55-plussers indicate that they are lonely. Those numbers cut through your soul. This is partly due to the phase of life, because it is of course not nice when you get older and more and more loved ones are disappearing around you. Fortunately, there are also many good initiatives, but loneliness remains. In what way will the Minister make every effort and release resources from the coalition agreement and commit to the fight against loneliness?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u199	Mrs Sazias, I do not want to rush you, time has stopped, but you have 26 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u200	I've already skipped a few pieces, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u201	As far as I'm concerned, you may speak that 26 minutes full...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u202	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u203	...but you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u204	I've already skipped a few pieces. Mrs Agema mentioned the back-pay scheme, and I would like to endorse that. That's gonna save you a lot. I'm moving slowly towards the end now, Mr. Chairman. The question is whether care remains affordable for ordinary people. The mandatory own risk will be frozen at €385 per year for this cabinet period, i.e. until 2021. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this has to go even further down. But yes, if that leads to higher care premiums, as stated in the coalition agreement, then we are just as far from home. For the lowest incomes, this is compensated by the health care allowance, but those who are just above it are severely screwed. The premium will increase considerably in the coming years. Especially for those who are just above the health care allowance limit, that is a serious problem. Care-avoidance remains lurking. The pressure on income is increasing and rising to disproportionate levels. Does the Minister recognize this? What's he gonna do about this? Is the structural detachment of the link between one's own risk and the cost of care an option? In addition, we learned from a report by De Nederlandsche Bank that the supplementary insurance is in danger. It doesn't make enough profit for insurers. It's a commercial product, so they can do whatever they want with it. Long live the market, I'll say again. On the left or right, people with lower incomes or middle incomes are the victims. In this way there is a danger of a division in the care. We don't want that, do we? That can't be true in a country like the Netherlands, can it? What's the Minister's response? What's he gonna do to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. I have one last sentence, because I really want to send a warm compliment to all the employees in the care from this place for their passionate involvement. I've met a lot of care workers and I have nothing but respect for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u205	Thank you. You have spent 26 minutes talking about this, so you will have to negotiate within your group for extra minutes for the second term, Mrs Sazias. That's how it goes. Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u206	Madam President, Mrs Sazias has also rubbed us that sitting down is the new smoke. In the meantime we are sitting here for four and a half hours with 40 people in this room, so we are not giving the whole healthy example. You could say: then you need to interrupt more, then you keep moving. But that again is at the expense of the night's sleep and that is not healthy. Perhaps we should add some more candy tomatoes in the renovation of the hall after all. Mr. Chairman. There are fine intentions for the concern in the coalition agreement. The cabinet is ambitious in its work on prevention and health promotion, promises to take good care of everyone and believes that everyone, with or without limitation, should be able to participate in society. Let me say that the SGP shares the starting point, the motto: not major system changes, but working on concrete improvements with regard to human size. That ghost speaks to us. More than ever now, I am hearing everyone in the care saying that it is ending up with the administrative burden. It is therefore the art and the task to forge the iron now that it is hot and to make that release of registration and regulation pressure real. Ambitious plans have now been announced, and we are waiting eagerly for concrete proposals. In concrete terms, I would now like to draw attention to the administrative burden arising from unnecessary purchasing, quality and accountability requirements imposed on healthcare purchasers. Two years ago I tabled a motion with Mrs Bruins Slot (34300-XVI, No. 77), which received broad support, with the proposal to have health insurers, health offices and municipalities work on standardisation of procurement, quality and invoicing requirements. Unfortunately, too little has changed. That is why I ask the cabinet how it looks at the proposal to instruct the NZa to call on insurers and sub-sectors to establish procurement and accountability requirements in a procurement standard, so that double, sometimes contradictory requirements are avoided. Mr. Chairman. Sharing scarcity is difficult but necessary, even and perhaps right in the care sector. It is important that waste, waste, is avoided. That has already been said about it tonight. My question is what the cabinet will do about it. The way in which money is distributed between the different sectors of care is currently quite opaque and, in my view, not optimal. We saw, for example, with the investment we wanted and certainly supported in nursing care that it was actually a legally binding outcome at once. It was right to call the bell: what about the care of the neighbourhood and the care of the disabled? How is it now ensured that the overall picture is in balance? Does not the system used lead to imbalances in the balance if, in the end, there is no clear political weighting on the basis of an overview of what is really needed for each sector? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the nursing home sector, I still have the question of how this money is actually being used and how to prevent institutions that are actually doing well from being punished for good behaviour when extra money is ultimately linked only to concrete improvements that still have to be made. Mr. Chairman. I call on the government to proceed swiftly with the implementation of the UN Convention. Very practically, I ask the government how it will ensure that public buildings are quickly accessible to people with disabilities. That was one of the wishes expressed in the petition today. So you're thinking, how many times have we heard that? Shouldn't that have been settled a long time ago? The cabinet rightly wants to focus on prevention and a healthy lifestyle. The problem of alcohol consumption is addressed, as I read in the coalition agreement. But my question is: how? I have a concrete suggestion. In Scotland, the British Supreme Court has given the green light for the introduction of a minimum price for alcohol. Would such a minimum price not also be a good idea in the Netherlands? I am also thinking of motions that have been adopted in this Chamber in the past in order to prevent the brewing of beer. They were also about happy-hour practices. It was said that this cannot be done in European law. Apparently, there's room for that. I'd like a response to that point. In recent years there has been an increasing use of carers and volunteers in the care sector. However, the report from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which we received at our office one of these days, shows that informal care is not clearly increasing. The proportion of volunteers in the elderly and disabled would even have decreased. How does the government indicate this development? Isn't there still a problem that in the tax system the provision of care and volunteering also has a negative impact, because it makes you miss the bonuses for paid working hours? Are you willing to look creatively for solutions to this? I would like to comment specifically on foster care. There is an investigation in foster care into ways of making foster care more attractive. I would ask that this point of the effects of the tax system be taken into account. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Last week the Week of Life was designed. The central message is that even the little ones deserve protection and their mothers deserve full support. That's what got a lot of people thinking. That's how I've come across on social media: I'm in favour of abortion, but this year it happens more than 30,000 times, which scares me. Officially, abortion should only take place in unavoidable emergency situations. I therefore call on the government, precisely in view of difficult situations in which women find themselves, to set as a policy objective that the number of emergencies should be reduced. Last year, the SGP submitted an own-initiative paper to improve assistance to unintended pregnant women. When will the Chamber receive the cabinet response requested? As a SGP, we want to continue on one part and come up with an initiative proposal that regulates that every unintentional pregnant woman gets an offer to have one or more elective counseling meetings outside an abortion clinic. Mr. Chairman. I find it unsatisfactory that the subsidy for Siriz for 2018 is still not complete, despite the commitment of the previous Secretary of State. I therefore ask that this be done quickly and properly. I'd like a response to that. Recently I came into contact with a happy young mother of a healthy baby, who said that according to the Dutch guidelines there was no treatment possible for that baby, because it was born too early. But in Germany it was possible. Eventually, the child also turned out to be healthy. She was wondering, and I would like to pass on that question, whether it is not very unsatisfactory that this cannot be done in the Netherlands. How can this difference be explained? It is unfortunate that a neighbouring country can be dealt with around the corner, whereas this is not happening in the Netherlands. In a medically speaking, grey area, should the wishes of the parents no longer be guiding in this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a medical-ethical point about euthanasia practice. Lately, you've seen that a lot of doctors, including psychiatrists, are interfering in that debate. Fortunately, you also see that many live the belief that life is a gift and not a possession and that we must have respect for life. Many psychiatrists say that they have difficulty killing people, psychiatric patients in whom the death wish can sometimes be so closely linked to the disease and it is unclear whether hopelessness is actually the issue. So far, there has been a rather lukewarm response to this point, including from the cabinet. We ask the government to do more justice to this concern, which was also raised in the round table we had recently in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to underline the plea for a better palliative psychiatry, such a point from the round table that the Chamber held. Palliative care is often used intensively at the end of life, while patients benefit much earlier from good pain control and palliative care. This is evident from a recent dissertation. The main message from this is that a patient with dementia being admitted to the nursing home requires a palliative care approach from the moment of admission and not just at the end of the course, as is often the case now. My question is how the government will promote this. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot coming for the Chamber. I have also noticed in all the letters we have received that this is in the first quarter of 2018. So I had the question whether there is anything still on the table in the second quarter of 2018. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u207	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u208	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Slootweg of the CDA on his maiden speech. Then I start by expressing appreciation for all those heroes and heroines who work passionately in care. Mr. Chairman. More care is available for those who need good care; that is a goal that no one can oppose. In that context, I would like to mention two names. It has been discussed before, among other things by Mrs Sazias. Carin Gaemers and Hugo Borst visited all political parties last year with a manifesto for the care of the elderly. DENK has fully supported this manifesto, as has all the other political parties. The result is that 2 billion more goes to nursing care. That is a good story: how two political outsiders broke open politics and even got the VVD to achieve substantial additional funding for a major social problem. In that context, I have a number of questions for the Minister. How is he going to ensure that the extra money is actually used for workers in the workplace and not for, for example, expensive managers or buildings? To what extent is the shortage of staff in care hampering the possibility of actually getting extra hands on the bed? What happens to the money if the nursing homes cannot spend it on the purpose for which it is intended? Mr. Chairman. Following on from the issue of care for the elderly, I would like to draw attention to culturally sensitive care, care that takes into account the origins and the culture of people. In the care we constantly discuss that the patient or client is central, that it is about the wishes and demands of patients and clients. I ask the Minister what his vision is in this area. Does he think that care should also be more culturally sensitive? As far as my group is concerned, there is still much to gain. I quote from a report by Pharos: "The literature on care for migrants indicates that the burden of disease among them is higher and the use of care less effective compared to the rest of the population. Furthermore, the results of qualitative research indicate that the quality of care is not always optimal and patient satisfaction is lower than among the rest of the population. Non-Western migrants make much less use of the facilities in the care of the elderly. In care of the elderly, migrants often have specific needs in the areas of personal care, food, treatment, family involvement and faith." Then the conclusion: "Differences in the quality of care of migrants do not arise because a patient comes from a country other than the Netherlands. The real cause is the reaction of the care system to patients characteristics associated with the non-Dutch origin. An undesirable situation. The starting point of care is that all patients deserve the same quality of care. In order to achieve this, so-called "diversity responsive care" is advocated. My group considers it unfair if not all patients experience the same quality of care. I assume the Minister agrees with this. What's he gonna do to fix this? Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot to do to my infamous plug speech. I have already indicated that this statement deserves nuance at the time. I also made sure that I immediately nuanced that statement. However, I noticed that some types of reactions came to me. First of all, professionals responded in healthcare. I really like listening to professionals in healthcare. I like to hear their experiences. I'd like to hear from them what wasn't right. I've had several conversations with various professionals in care. The second category concerned people who in one way or another, especially in campaigning time, needed to disqualify my party and my person as a party and person who were not good. The third category concerned people who really didn't understand the verdict. I can also imagine that very well. There was a fourth category of people who had experience with this. I've got a couple of e-mails from that. I received several e-mails immediately after the ruling. I'll read you short pieces, because it's really a pile. There's a lot of files on my table. "Dear Mr Kuzu, unfortunately I also have experience with this. I lost my dad because doctors didn't want to give him a chance, when my dad really wanted to go on. He even begged for food, but they wouldn't give it to him." "Good morning, Mr. Kuzu, in immigrants rather the plug out? They're even moving on. At my mother's, her second opinion was sabotaged by her doctor." Then an e-mail from a 53-year-old woman living in North Brabant. It comes from former Yugoslavia, now Bosnia and Herzegovina. "I want to respond to your statement regarding old immigrants: plug is drawn earlier on medical treatment." There's some linguistic errors in it. "That's what I've been through with my 82-year-old father. He was in excellent condition. intestinal cancer was detected at the hospital in 2015. That's where they didn't want him to operate. I said, "Why isn't he in surgery?" The answer was because he's old and the surgery's too heavy. Then we decided to go to Bosnia. That's where he operated. And he's still alive." This is a fairly recent story of a number of sides. It was written in September 2017. A patient with distress symptoms, who is otherwise in very good condition, reports to the emergency room. He's being investigated there. It's concluded he's all right. According to his doctor, it would be better for him to stay in the hospital for two days until the troubles disappear. He's getting antibiotics on an IV. And from that moment on, it's gonna go all wrong. There is then a whole discussion with the hospital board and with the treating doctors. The conclusion is: "We are fully within our rights and you are trying to take it away from us." This is addressed to the hospital, by the way. "You can't wait to pull the plug. We want clarity on what caused my father to end up in a coma. We want to get to the bottom of this." Mr. Chairman. I have many more examples. Then, as far as I'm concerned, we can do two things. We can keep going on this foot. I would like to say once again that I have nuanced that statement. It has not been my intention to harm and harm an entire profession. It has been my intention to point out real problems that affect a lot of people at the moment. We can still laugh about it and continue to say "Kuzu's statement is no good," but this is a real social problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u209	I have a question for Mr Kuzu. I am curious to see what he has answered to the people who have sent these e-mails.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u210	My answer was that I would investigate things further and then involve myself in the broader problem surrounding the experience of many people with the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u211	I ask that because the content of those e-mails is so serious that, if it is correct, it should be reported to the inspection. I hope that Mr Kuzu will also let the people know. Most of all, they should report this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u212	Yes, I absolutely did. In a number of concrete cases, I have also made a very concrete statement: take this story to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u213	I am not responding now because I am from the PVV, because that is usually the impulse that Mr Kuzu is shooting into, but I am responding because I am one of those caregivers. First of all, you quote Pharos. With all due respect, that's the institution that likes girl circumcision. So I like that. But the stories you all tell don't just happen to those people who email you. They happen to everyone else. My grandmother died prematurely from a medical failure at the hospital. That wasn't because she was white, that wasn't because she was a woman. I am very sorry that you are suggesting that medical misses are taking place because they are immigrants. I would very much like to ask you to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u214	This is what this is all about. A lot of medical misses are being made in the Netherlands. That's right. It is not the case that this is exclusively reserved for people with a migrant background. My point, however, is that every medical failure we can prevent is a profit. If it's just one, then it's a profit, then it's one human life. If we can save one human life by fighting language disadvantages and ensuring that we start thinking in solutions, then that has been taken into account. I hope, therefore, that I can find the PVV by my side when I talk about interpreting fees in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u215	Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u216	Yes, may I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u217	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u218	Mr Kuzu knows how we feel about the interpretation fee. It is your own responsibility to learn the Dutch language. If a 80-year-old man with cancer is told by the doctor "that operation is too heavy, you're not going to save it," it was probably also said to Jaap from a district in The Hague. He may not choose to go to Bosnia. In this case, it did. It's probably because Jaap survived. It's the doctor's judgement with the patient. If the patient isn't able to have that conversation, then he needs to bring someone who can have that conversation. I find it very easy to blame a medical failure for language retardation or the fact that someone is an immigrant. I just don't think that's possible. I would ask you one more time: I would like it for all those caregivers, including myself, who have always taken good care of everything and everyone, black, white, green, yellow, if you would excuse me. Because what you're saying is horrible. It would be a pleasure for you to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u219	I appreciate what Mrs Gerbrands has done in the past. There are two elements in the story. First of all, we are talking about the interpretation fee. If, through a wider interpretation fee, we can ensure that we can save people's lives, then we must do so, then we cannot put it on people's own responsibility. There are actually people who just don't, who don't have children, who don't have people around who do. There are people in an acute emergency in the hospital. We need a wider interpretation fee for that. That's point one. Then point two. The lady I just mentioned has had the opportunity to go to Bosnia. Harry from The Hague's Schilderswijk may not have that; that's right. But isn't it amazing that in the Netherlands professionals indicate that someone has been treated out, that they don't see any rescue anymore, while abroad, in Bosnia in this case, there is a provision that can save a human life? Then we can do two things. Then we can call it scandalous or we can ask ourselves the question: what is going to go wrong here in our system? I'd like to talk about that. In any case, we are calling for a wider interpretation fee. Healthcare providers also indicate that they are tired of paying that fee out of their own pocket, we read in a May NOS message this year. Research commissioned by the KNMG itself shows that the need to deploy professional interpreters is three times greater than is currently the case. I'm quoting from a report from the KNMG. "Because the demand for care cannot be properly identified, patients are at extra risk and more follow-up visits are needed." It's literally there. As far as we are concerned, this is a completely unacceptable situation. I ask the Minister: does he agree with me and what is he going to do about this? We know our position on our own risk and on the health system in general. I have three points I would like to make. The first one is about stem cell donation. Stem cell transplantation can be life-saving. Matchis is working on this. The Ministry states that the structural solution for Matchis should actually be reached on 1 January 2018. I know that GroenLinks and D66 have asked questions about this in the past. What's the status? Are we going to be able to find a structural solution for Matchis before 1 January 2018? To this end, it would be necessary to bring about an adaptation of the Health Insurance Decision. Is the Minister prepared to do so? My second point concerns general practitioner care and, specifically, care in disadvantaged areas. General practitioners now receive an amount of €6.70 on top of the annual registration rate per patient living in a disadvantaged neighbourhood. But this delay is not enough, many general practitioners say. This is mainly due to the fact that the award of the fee is based, inter alia, on the density of addresses in a given postal code area. However, the presence of a park or a richer enclave in the area in question can make sure that there can be no claim to late payments, even if there is clearly a disadvantaged area. Does the Minister recognise this problem and is he prepared to find a solution to it? The PVV and 50PLUS also talked about the Indian issue. The backpay scheme closes on 1 January 2018. I would ask the Minister to extend it until 1 January 2020, as the Indian community also points out. And I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to respond to this request from a small group of ancient people over 90 years of age, people who have had to wait 70 years for late salaries. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to stress once again that we at DENK want to thank everyone who works with heart and soul in care for the commitment to groups of vulnerable people, for the sick and for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u220	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. On Thursday, the directors will respond on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-23.u221	For the moment, I have to close the meeting. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the directors, the stenographies, the clerks and the people who have been able to follow this debate in one way or another.
