ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Taverne, and the Foreign Minister to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I need considerably less time than I was originally mistakenly registered for. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiator, Mr Taverne, on the fact that his proposal has reached the stage in which he can defend it here in the First Chamber. I understand he's been working on his last few weeks as a Member of Parliament, now that he's not re-elected. Then such a milestone is memorable and especially if he succeeds in getting a majority behind his proposal here too. We'll see. This bill contributes to the solution of a fundamental problem, which is a fundamental problem, if you will see that in our work as representatives of the people. We are directly affected by this as parliamentarians, according to the initiator during the plenary session in the House of Representatives. That is quite an assumption, and I hope Mr Taverne will not blame me if I want to make this somewhat relative, especially now that, after his letter of amendment, there is only an obligation for the government to inform the Chambers of whether, in the opinion of the government, any binding provisions are included in a treaty. I will not deny that Mr Taverne's proposal can be an improvement, but I do think that its scope is limited. I will briefly comment on the main reasons for this initiative proposal. First of all, the initiator has the intention of giving the court the right to decide, where appropriate, whether there is any binding provision of the Treaty which confers rights or imposes obligations on it. It is true that the court is also concerned with the history of the formation and, therefore, probably also with the parliamentary documents relating to the approval. But, of course, the judge is not bound by a government's view of the matter in those documents. Moreover, as the Section has already pointed out, the assessment of the binding nature of Treaty provisions may vary according to time and place. Furthermore, the court has, of course, an obligation to make a valid judgment itself and cannot rely solely on a political view. I would almost say that he cannot rely on that at all. This is therefore a relative argument. A second motive for this legislative proposal seems to be that the initiator believes that Parliament has not done its job properly or not if a treaty has been implicitly approved and citizens in this country are bound by legal obligations without parliamentarians having looked at it and/or their say on it. I quote almost literally what Mr Taverne said in the House of Representatives. He believes that in such a case the Dutch people have not been able to say anything about it and that this is why we, as a parliament, have not done our job properly or have not done our job properly. I was quoting again. Against this motive, the assumption that Parliament is not doing its job properly if there is no obligation to provide information in the national laws on approval and disclosure treaties, my group has objections, because the word "forgive me" is nonsense. If Parliament does not give up express approval where it does have that possibility, it does not mean that parliamentarians do not do their job, even if the Treaty in this case contains any binding provisions. It means, above all, that the two Chambers must consider whether the treaty concluded raises so many questions that extensive parliamentary consideration is desirable or necessary. Nothing more and nothing less. The problem, therefore, is absolutely not that Parliament 'does not do its job properly', I quote Mr Taverne again. I fear that in this context he speaks only for himself or perhaps for his own party. Nor is it the case in advance that, as the initiator states, the government does not take sufficient care in the negotiations to ensure that regulations are binding on each, at least I have not been able to find any evidence to support them in his plea. In his reply, Mr Taverne will undoubtedly come up with further examples and case positions to support his statement. At least I hope so. I would like to invite the Foreign Minister to give his opinion on this too. A few dozen treaties are offered to the States-General implicitly each year. Several times a year, a sufficient number of members of one of the Chambers break the silence, after which the procedure of express approval is followed by law. That is not much, but at the same time it means that the two chambers do not just sleep in international law. In any case, it does not mean the reverse, namely that in cases where treaties were implicitly approved, the Chambers did not do their job properly. Can the government's obligation to provide information on whether or not all the Treaty provisions are binding support the two Chambers in their responsibility? That is true, just as it obliges the government to make clear what it knows or believes in this matter. That is a plus in the initiative proposal. In our view, this plus also outweighs the very limited bureaucratic burden on the government. That would have been different if the initiator had maintained his original proposal, namely the obligation to offer treaties which contain all binding provisions for express approval by definition, and had managed to steer them unharmed by the House of Representatives. Quod nun. That would have meant that in all these cases an approval law procedure should have been followed. My group had absolutely not been convinced of the usefulness of this exercise and thinks that the time the initiative proposal has taken in the course of the debate is a sensible one. Whether the initiator himself is ultimately very pleased with the residue of his original proposal is a bit Samson with whom the hair has been cut off is a question only he can answer. Although in my view the reasons for Mr Taverne's slimming proposal are too heavy, my group will support the government's obligation to provide information. After all, every little bit helps to do our job as well as possible. But a solution to a fundamental problem, no, it's not. With interest I look forward to the reaction of the initiator to my questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the initiator in our Chamber and, of course, the Minister, and we welcome the commitment of the initiator to achieve the most transparent decision-making on treaties that citizens can directly enter into. His original proposal imposed an obligation on the government to submit to Parliament any treaty which the government estimated could contain any binding treaty provision for express approval and therefore to adopt by law. This has been criticized by both the Council of State and fellow MPs. The initiator then chose eggs for his money in July 2016 and limited his proposal to an information obligation of the government to both Chambers to indicate whether, in its opinion, the Treaty in question contains provisions which, according to their content, can connect each other. The purpose of the legislative proposal is to lay down this obligation to provide information in the National Law on the Adoption and Publication of Conventions. We have already raised a number of points in the written consultation. In this plenary debate, my group confines itself to a number of additional points. Firstly, my group of the initiator would like to hear the reasons for his proposal once again. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated in his reply, any treaty to be concluded will normally consider the consequences of the conclusion of the treaty on Dutch law, regulation and practice. My question to the initiator is therefore what he believes is the added value of his legislative proposal in relation to current practice. I would also ask the Minister to respond to the question whether he shares the assessment of the proposer of the added value of the proposal. Secondly, my group would like to raise the issue of whether it is not too difficult a procedure to legally anchor this obligation to provide information. Could the same be achieved through a motion or on the basis of a commitment from the government? In other words, is the soup of the bill worth the cabbage? Thirdly, with the initiator, my group would like to reflect once again on the key concept of "each binding provision" in our Constitution. This concept was incorporated in the Constitutional Review of 1953, in order to provide a national response to the international formulation of human rights in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 and the ECHR in 1949. Over time there has been a lot of discussion as to whether the wording "each binding provision" is adequate, or whether the words "directly applicable" or "directly working" could better reflect the intention of the constitution. These are provisions of treaties which directly confer rights on citizens or impose obligations on them. My group would like to hear from the initiator which wording, in his view, provides the most clarity and why. I also ask him whether he believes that these are not just citizens' rights but also obligations, for example, in the context of the horizontal functioning of human rights or supranational criminal law, including those arising from the Statute of the International Criminal Court, an institution which has been very much pleased with Mr Taverne's interest. Since 1983 it has been added to the constitutional provision that it may also cover any binding provisions of acts of international organisations, in particular the European Union and the UN Security Council. Does it not threaten to create an imbalance when all its binding provisions will escape the functioning of the Taverne Bill? Does Mr Taverne not think that his increased obligation to provide information should also apply to acts of international law? I would also ask the Minister to respond on this point, namely the scope of the Taverne proposal for international decisions. The fourth point that my group wishes to raise is a fundamental issue that affects the nature of the Dutch legal order. It is often said that the Dutch legal order is of a moderate monistic nature, precisely because any binding provisions of treaties and decisions of international organisations can have direct effect in national law. So not all international law, and hence the typification "moderately monistic system." Nor is it a dualist system, a system of transformation in the sense that the application of all the rules of international law requires at all times a transposition into a national law, including those which, by their nature and content, each one can connect. My group is curious to see what the initiator thinks about this. Is he a moderate monist who merely wants to refine the existing procedures and make them more transparent? Or is he a dualist, who wants to begin to reduce the role of international and European law in the Dutch legal order along this hidden detour? In the latter case, there would be another monkey in our First Chamber and Mr Taverne could be a glorious man with Mr Van der Staaij, who, with his legislative proposal on decision-making on EU treaties and decisions, at least seemed to want to reduce its influence in the Netherlands. A fifth point concerns judicial judgment. In the written consultation, we have already had an extensive exchange of views with the initiator. It has been shown that the initiator and the PvdA Group agree that, in the end, the judicial interpretation of the content of the provision is decisive for the answer to the question whether a provision of the Treaty is binding on each person. In response to our questions on this subject, the initiator argued that his proposal was aimed at providing the judge with the tools to handle it. Mr De Graaf also said so that the judge could better use the legislator's intention as a starting point in his assessment of such a question of law. Judicial judgment is not cast into concrete: we do not know the rigid decisis system, in which the judge is bound by previous judgments in his interpretation of the applicable law. This doctrine also extends to the question of any binding Treaty provisions. Here too, a dynamic interpretation of the Treaties and an evolution of case law can take place. Let me give you two examples and ask for a response from the initiator. For a long time, in the Dutch legal order, fundamental social rights were largely regarded as standards of instruction to the government and not as obligations of results, in the sense of any binding Treaty provisions to which citizens can rely directly before national courts. But in recent years, we have seen a gradual reversal. The Central Board of Appeal and the Supreme Court have several times recognised the direct effect of fundamental social rights in the Dutch legal order. Last time I checked, it was at the bed-bath-bath-bath. Does the initiator recognise that the final judgment on these and other treaty interpretations is always before the courts, even if the government would have taken a different view on the possible future application of the Taverne Act? A second example. The initiator is undoubtedly familiar with the so-called Urgenda ruling, whereby the Hague Court grants a reflexive effect in the Dutch legal order to certain climate conventions and EU decisions, which by their nature and content cannot connect everyone, and uses them to determine the civil-law duty of the government towards its citizens. Of course, the Urgenda ruling is still the subject of appeal. My question is also here whether the initiator acknowledges that the final judgment lies with the Dutch court and not with the legislative power, even if the Taverne Act is applied in the future. On the basis of these sometimes fundamental questions, my group has expressed respect for the commitment of the initiator to achieve greater transparency in parliamentary decision-making. We are therefore looking forward with interest to his answers, as well as those of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group would like to begin by expressing its appreciation for the work that the initiator has devoted to the present proposal. It must have been quite a job, especially if you look at the history of this proposal. Because what we are discussing today is a change to the original bill. My group welcomes this initiative for two reasons. I'm going into that now. First of all, it is always a special moment when a proposal from a fellow Member of Parliament reaches the First Chamber, even though this event has been less special in terms of frequency lately. In this still very early year, this is the fourth initiative proposal on the plenary agenda in this House. I also note, if I am not mistaken, that this is already Mr Taverne's third initiative proposal, although I think it is the first to reach the Senate. That alone is worthy of congratulations. Some people think that the number of own-initiative proposals that are coming our way today is very high. "That's right," I hear Mrs. Jorritsma say. I'm asking her to keep an eye out. For example, during the General Reviews, one of the group chairmen in this House was of the opinion that I will not say from which party not to spoil Mr Taverne's party, but she may have already announced to herself that we are 'a great deal of time and attention' on 'a great deal of initiative legislative proposals'. I'm sure that didn't affect Mr Taverne's proposal. In any event, you will not soon hear such a complaint from the SP Group, Madam President. Parliament is the heart of democracy and the right of initiative of the House of Representatives, I say without any envy, is a great asset which underlines the role of Parliament as co-legislator. The second reason for us to be pleased is that this is an initiative proposal aimed at strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the laws we adopt here, in this case international treaties with binding provisions for everyone. Although, of course, it depends on how this is done and whether it is sound, legitimate and proportionate, such initiatives are generally very welcome as far as my group is concerned. It is precisely this time that we need to strengthen that democratic legitimacy, especially when it comes to entering into international legal obligations, especially if they directly interfere with the national legal order or even restrict the sovereignty of our country. A few weeks ago, Van der Staaij's proposal to adopt amendments to EU treaties by two thirds of a majority was postponed to St. Juttemis by a state committee here as, in the words of a esteemed colleague, an 'electric fig leaf' for those who did not want to publicly reject it, was a missed opportunity. With all the differences, I also see important parallels between these two legislative proposals. This proposal too, albeit in a very different way, is about strengthening the basis for international treaties, where EU treaties are, of course, a special category. In this case, in the view of my group, that support is strengthened if treaties with binding provisions for each would be more often explicitly approved by Parliament rather than merely silently. Mr Taverne's original proposal even meant that all these treaties would always be submitted for explicit approval. Silent approval would no longer be possible. In the light of Articles 93 and 94 of our Constitution, therefore, such approval as a standard procedure would not, in my group's view, have been illogical. In fact, on the basis of these articles, any binding provisions of treaties in our limited monist system have already been recalled by my colleague, Mr Schrijver, direct effect and, in our legal order, precedence over any conflicting national legislation. In more common language: these are therefore treaties which directly create rights and/or obligations for Dutch citizens and which the Dutch courts must apply as such, even if they do not apply national laws. That's a big deal. So we are talking about far-reaching treaty provisions that affect all Dutch people. Isn't it a strange figure if the Dutch Parliament didn't give its explicit approval to such treaties or not? In this light, my group wonders whether it is not regrettable that, following opposition from the House of Representatives, the original proposal was finally withdrawn and now replaced by a proposal which obliges the government to inform Parliament only about whether a treaty or treaty amendment contains any binding provisions. In the House of Representatives, the initiator said that the substance of the original proposal was retained in the amended proposal. Maybe he can explain that again here. In other words, can he describe that essence again? Could he perhaps also comment on the question of which, apparently, non-essential aspects of his original proposal were lost in the amended text? Does he not agree with the SP Group that the new proposal is an essential weakening of what he originally intended? In other words, does Mr De Graaf not just have a point, but from a slightly different perspective? This does not mean that the present proposal would not send an important signal and that it would not improve on current practice. As a parliament, we can do our job better if the government has formed an opinion on whether or not the provisions of treaties are binding and we can then consider that opinion as a co-legislator. In this way, Parliament is explicitly reminded of the existence of treaties which, in the opinion of the Government, are generally binding, even if, despite these provisions, the government has decided not to submit the Convention for express approval. Therefore, I understand from the history of this proposal that silence will be broken so often or that Parliament will at least be better informed about it. Maybe both the initiator and the minister can go back to their expectations on this? What exactly will change in practice? How often, in the present situation, we ask the Minister in particular, are treaties with any binding provisions not submitted for express approval? What are the considerations on the part of the government? Does the Minister think that this will happen less often if this proposal becomes state law? Does he think that if the government is bound by its obligation to provide information, it will proceed more quickly to submit a treaty for express approval? If so, would the Minister see that as a problem? Another question is to what extent it is actually clear in all cases whether provisions connect or not. In the current proposal, the government has to assess this, but on what criteria exactly should it do so? I understand from the legal literature that the meaning of the concept of "each one is binding" is not always evident. In the end, it is the judge who has to decide this in the Netherlands. But how should we, as a parliament, weigh this judgment when this proposal is adopted? Perhaps both the Minister and the initiator can answer these questions? I'm closing up. That which the present proposal seeks to lay down by law, namely that the government informs Parliament of its assessment of whether the proposed treaties extend so far as to create rights and obligations directly for citizens, should be a matter of course in the eyes of the SP Group. But this has never been the practice to date. To change them it is better to record this in the Rijkswet approval and publication treaties. Our basic attitude towards this proposal is therefore positive, but we are still looking forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group too would like to congratulate the initiator of this legislative proposal on the work that has been done to get here. The proposal could be the provisional conclusion of a decades-long discussion on the tacit adoption by the States-General of international conventions containing provisions binding on all. In view of the long history and the heavy committees that have looked into it, that compliment is also worth the compliment. By the way, I do not use the word "for the time being." I use that word because the views on what is socially desirable in the relationship between the Netherlands and international partners and between the Dutch and their government have never been consolidated. The same applies to its interpretation. Several speakers have already pointed that out. We'll talk about that in a minute. Just two weeks ago, we spoke in this house about the Van der Staaij initiative proposal, which is seen in terms of the adoption and amendment of EU treaties by the States-General. In any case, the debate on the acceptance by ordinary or two-thirds majority of European treaties has not yet been resolved, according to the debate. The tacit adoption of treaties is the origin of the 1953 Constitution. From the outset, there were discussions and committees dealing with the question of what cases such a tacit procedure would be desirable or not. In particular, it was a question of whether the role of Parliament in treaties that differ from the Constitution and in treaties with any binding provision would be adequately respected. In 1983 only the basis of the approval procedure in the Constitution remained and it was decided to continue the approval procedure by state law. Since 1994, we have been thanks to the Rijkswet approval and publication treaties. The criticism didn't stop. In particular, there was criticism of automatism, which also approved treaties with any binding declaration. But it took another 15 years for the Thamassen Commission to recommend that this be done differently. However, successive Cabinets remained reluctant to amend the law. The flexibility and speed of effective action were weighed more heavily. Perhaps the principle of proportionality also played a part in this. And so, through a number of intermediate steps, we have ended up with the initiator, who, on the contrary, believes that democratic legitimacy needs to be strengthened. My group agrees with the starting point of the initiator. The aim of the 1983 Rgbv is to strike a good balance between, on the one hand, the greatest possible control of parliament and, on the other hand, the ability of the cabinet to act with the necessary capacity and flexibility in the international arena and to make binding agreements with third parties. We can follow the considerations put forward by legal scholars and the arguments put forward by the initiator to strengthen Parliament's position. We shall add an additional consideration to that. When the law was drawn up in 1983, the social sentiment regarding international cooperation and treaties was completely different from today. As far as my group is concerned, the need for international cooperation to solve major problems today is greater than ever. At the same time, it is more necessary than ever to strengthen democratic legitimacy in a society that is more hesitant about international cooperation, not by raising the thresholds for international cooperation, as in the Van der Staaij initiative proposal, but by looking more carefully at what the Netherlands and the Netherlands commit to through treaties and agreements. A number of automations that lift the current legislative proposal can play a good role in this, because the Cabinet is more explicit about the cases in which treaties have generally binding provisions and the States General asks for an explicit ruling on them. An additional advantage is that, where appropriate, the courts should be given more guidance in assessing whether Treaty provisions are actually binding, according to the initiator. However, there are also a number of questions to ask about the functioning of this bill in practice, in particular about proportionality. We would like to know once again explicitly from the initiator and the cabinet whether the current law does not also provide sufficient opportunities for parliamentary consideration if sufficient members of the States-General so wish. What instruments does the initiator consider to be insufficient and how does the legislative proposal specifically provide for a different approach? Can the initiator once again clearly outline what the implementation of this law would look like in practice? What additional steps should the cabinet and departments take to prevent it from becoming a paper tiger? Can we make an assessment of that? We do not think that the written answers to this point have been very concrete so far. On the question of judicial interpretation, I have the following question. In the interpretation of treaties, the judge will usually look mainly at the travaux préparatorys. Does the initiator believe that this interpretation enriches parliamentary treatment and, if so, does it not create the risk that treaty states can each make their own changes to the Treaty through their parliaments? I would like to receive a response, including from the cabinet. Finally, we would also like to hear some examples of the initiator of treaties from the past three to four years which, in his opinion, would have received a different parliamentary treatment if this law had been in force. Once again, we are in favour of the principles of the legislative proposal, but for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the final consideration is whether the legislative proposal is actually feasible in practice and can be seen to increase democratic legitimacy. In this respect, we are very interested in the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-8.u6	I'm suspending the meeting pending the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science.
