ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday there was an alarming report in De Telegraaf about the Inspection Environment and Transport. In fact, the aviation inspection would have lost its way and would have lost its way. This would also lead to unsafe situations. The Royal Netherlands Association for Aviation states in the same report that the understanding and trust between the airlines and the aviation inspection have reached a low point. The President states that inspectors are invisible and often only do something, without proper consultation. These are spicy statements about our aviation safety and this is a worrying situation. We need to be able to trust that the aviation inspection can do its job properly. The question is therefore whether the Secretary of State recognizes these statements in De Telegraaf, whether the functioning of the aviation inspection is under pressure and thus affects our aviation safety. Meanwhile, the ILT itself has also responded and said that something needs to change dramatically, because there are serious shortcomings. An external agency has now made an analysis. The question is when the Court will see this analysis. The new director just wants to say that the results were quite solid and that the ILT needs to reinvent itself. This brings me to the following questions. What exactly is going on? How serious is the situation at the aviation inspection? Has aviation safety been compromised at any point in time? How long has the Secretary of State been aware of this situation at the aviation inspection? What has been done or what is being done to improve the situation? Can the Secretary of State comment on whether this situation does not only affect the aviation inspection but also the wider field of activity of the ILT, including transport by rail, road and the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to Mrs Visser for asking these questions. If you open the newspapers, I did that too, and then I see that the air inspection is "admirably incompetent," I can honestly imagine all the alarm bells going off. However, I do not think that is right. Perhaps that is my first answer to Mrs Visser's question. What's going on? Following the Fyra survey, which came from the Chamber, the inspection found that a number of cases were not going well. That is why they have spoken with Jan and alleman over the past year about how to do better. It is true that a number of tough conclusions have emerged from this. The ILT is too legalistic and invisible. It is not sufficiently focused on external communication and could better maintain contacts with different companies in the sector. One has actually entered a completely transparent process of looking at oneself: how can it be better? That's done. This is not just the case with the aviation inspection. It's done across the board. I think that's very good. If you do that and acknowledge that things need to be better, then you get these kinds of qualifications through the newspaper, partly anonymously. I don't recognize them. Flight safety is of the utmost importance to all of us: safety first. The system consists of a chain of activities in which the ILT and others carry out checks-and-balances at any time. There is no reason to doubt flight safety. It is well arranged in the Netherlands in itself. It can always be better. That's what this discussion is about. It's gotta be better, too. To make a long story short: the ILT is working on a new course in response to the Fyra survey, with more risk-oriented supervision, better inspections and better communication with abroad. The information on this course is given to you in the multiannual programme. Those are the pieces for Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. I understand that she recognizes the results, but that she is particularly concerned about the fact that an anonymous complaint has been made about the aviation inspection. That brings me to the following questions. The Fyra survey has been done. We have had a lot of discussions about this. The question remains whether flight safety has been compromised at any time. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State says that this is not the case? When was the Secretary of State aware of this? In other reports about the ILT, I read that the director himself says that it will be a journey of discovery, in which it is not known where they come out. Then what is needed in terms of knowledge and finance to put the ILT in order? There is often talk of bureaucracy. In the past, for example, we have had discussions about drones. We know that it takes a very long time for the ILT to issue a permit. What action has the Secretary of State taken to ensure that bureaucracy is removed, that safety is not compromised and that things can simply be done more quickly? Then we won't have to have any more discussions here, either about the Fyra or about the aviation inspection. It just needs to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Again, I have to be precise. I'm moving away from the headline above the article. That's what I want to say. I'm standing right here in front of my inspectors. That is also what I want to say. There has been discussion about the functioning of the ILT in the broad sense. That discussion is well known, because we have informed the Chamber that that discussion is necessary. It will also lead to changes in the ILT. You will receive these changes with the information about the new course. Those pieces come with Prince's Day. I look forward to discussing issues such as "a small government or not." We will undoubtedly get that discussion back. If we need more money and more inspection, that requires choices from all of us. I'm very willing to make it. The ILT is now going into a process of looking at how to do better. I do not think it is right, then, to say by way of detour that nothing is right at all. Then the final point. I've seen the KNVvL make statements in the paper. The website of the same organisation actually says that they are very happy with this process of change. It also seems to me wise to invite Mr Schnitker, who says all kinds of things in the newspaper, to come and tell me personally what exactly the situations he is concerned about are. Either we get a list of examples and we can act on them or the soup seems to be being eaten slightly less hot than it has been served. You can both do that, but that's got to be clear. I very much agree with Mrs Visser. We must not leave this kind of discussion hanging in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good that you are going to have a cup of coffee with Mr Schnitker; I think he will also receive this invitation. My question is still whether we can possibly receive the analysis of the reports on the ILT in the Prinsjesdag pieces. I don't think the discussion is how to communicate through the newspaper. We just want to know whether safety can be guaranteed. That's what I hear the Secretary of State say: it's possible. I have absolutely no doubt about that either. Risk-oriented supervision has been promoted by the ILT all along. However, what we continue to run into is the question of what is needed to get it going. It is just about every year in the multiannual plan, but apparently it does not come off the ground, because it is still being discussed. Perhaps the Secretary of State could say something about that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'm trying to make that short. I think it is excellent that you receive that analysis from the documents. Then you can also see what the trade-offs have been. When it comes to controlling flight safety, I can say that we are already doing what we need to do in accordance with all the rules and procedures. If there is a debate on the legislation, then one should not, say, hit the ILT and say that the legislation is not correct, but then one should report to me or to you as co-legislator and say that it has to be different. So that's all messed up. And yes, there will always be a discussion in the future about whether we can continue to guarantee flight safety with a lot of extra movements. That debate will have to be held, also because we know that this may require more of, for example, the ILT. So I'm willing to do that, too, but I don't like to question the work that has been done in this way. I'll add an asterisk to that. If we miss things, I ask people to report them to me so that I can act as well. For example, drone regulations have already been discussed extensively in the Chamber. That not everyone in the aviation sector is happy with that regulation, I know, but that is really something other than saying that there is a permanent safety hazard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. I am getting a little happy that the VVD has requested this debate because the SP and D66 have already drawn attention to this in 2015 and 2016. But the world is changing. I understand from the Secretary of State that she will return to Princess' Day. Is it perhaps possible, in the meantime, to share with the Chamber the strength-weakness analysis referred to in the article in question? If she's not going to, I'd like to hear why she doesn't want to. For the time being, however, I assume that she will do so, so that we, as a Chamber ourselves, can make a judgment about it towards Princess Day in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	I wasn't going to because I think that if you have such an analysis, I should also tell you as a driver how I think I'm going to fix it. If you'll do that for me, we need to change seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to ask the Secretary of State to what extent it is important to look at the functioning of the ILT in a broader sense over the next four years. On a lot of things you see the functioning of the ILT come back. I call the Fyra. Also during the accident in Borne the role of the ILT was discussed and now again in this case. Apparently there is something that makes us regularly return to the functioning of the ILT. How does the Secretary of State look at this in view of the next four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	I very much agree with that. Indeed, following the Fyra survey, we found that it was not enough just to look at the track record, because the mechanisms that were in place there could also be discussed elsewhere in the organisation. This also means that when it comes to the future of supervision, we will indeed have to make sharp choices. I'm gonna say one more thing. During Question Time there was talk of the NVWA, an organisation that I know well. Over the past few decades, there has been a great deal of reason to pool and put together and to tackle increasingly difficult problems with fewer and fewer people. I think that we have gradually reached the limit of our potential in this area, if not that we are at the bottom of that border. I therefore agree with Mr Van Helvert that it should be looked at in the coming years. That is why this analysis is important. This is also the way to see where investment might have to be made and how it should be done. After all, it is not just about legislation and the areas there, but also, for example, about risks that arise in a society and that you cannot always foresee. So I look forward to that debate. I'd really like to have that with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	I have another follow-up question, because of course I was not entirely happy with the statement made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	Of course, you are in charge of it yourself, but I would like to ask you to give a written response on your behalf. A lot of people don't really know what's going on. I believe that the Chamber is also entitled to find something of your reaction to that. You say very easily: if people feel that something is pinching, they can just come to me. That's very kind of you. But do you not have an opinion on the extent to which certain rules should be tightened or tightened? Would you be prepared to send a letter to the Chamber before September?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	I understand that Mrs Belhaj was not satisfied with my first answer. That was a little teasing, too. She'll have to forgive me. By the way, there's a core truth in it. In the discussion I will have with Mr Schnitker, I will also hear exactly where the problem lies. On the basis of that conversation, I am prepared to comment on both the article before us and on what I hear during that conversation. I will also look ahead to this and comment on whether it is necessary for the Chamber to be more alert to a number of issues. But the broader story is really about the ILT as a whole. That's what I do with the Minister. That's where we're gonna have to make choices. We can't do that already.
