ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would ask Members to take their seats because the sitting has been reopened. The next item is the 30-member debate on the message that the Dutch livestock must shrink in order to meet the objectives of the climate agreement. I welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Our livestock in the Netherlands is too large. That says not only my party, but that is what more and more researchers are saying. There will be more and more analyses that confirm that. It is too large from different perspectives. That is not entirely illogical, because we are trying to be the butcher and the milkman for the world, from what I now call a "pin button on the globe." We're not closing circles. We import, we export the meat and we stay here with the manure. And with greenhouse gas emissions! This has many consequences: drinking water sources had to be closed due to manure pollution. We are not going to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. The nitrogen emissions remain high. We're gonna talk about that in more detail later. The intensification of livestock farming leads to an increasing number of megasthals and cows that remain on stables. And last but not least, the high emissions of greenhouse gases, especially methane but also CO, in livestock farming cannot cope with our climate. So many problems, but the good news is that research also shows that we can maintain livestock farming in the Netherlands at a very decent level. That may sound crazy when you talk about shrinkage, but it is a very interesting conclusion in the context of the climate issue. With about 1.2 million cows instead of 1.6 million cows, we could have land-based livestock farming in the Netherlands in a responsible way. Actually, that's good news. Actually, we should embrace that. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that agriculture should in any case contribute almost proportional, if not proportionate, to the objectives of the climate agreement? And does the Minister agree with the analysis of these scientists that it is necessary to reduce livestock? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are starting now, because if you want to do it socially and economically, it can only be done gradually. My party would be very much in favour of this, because otherwise the consequences for farmers, but also for our economy, will not be seen. If we do it quietly and gradually, then it can be done in a way where the sector, as it were, is growing and, in part, shrinking. This also brings more balance to the market and can lead to relaxation and sometimes abolition of regulation. Let's see if we could get this far so that we could get rid of such a whole Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen, very bureaucratic, very complicated, works for no good reason. That's the kind of perspective we see. The point of profit is that there is less pressure on the manure market, that perhaps even money can be spent on the disposal of manure as a valuable product. Mr President, I shall conclude. Of course, it's going to cost money, but it's also gonna make money. We do not need to give any more crazy subsidies to manure fermentation and such, very large sums of money. If we work on it, we will also have to weigh this option against other options to solve the climate problem. And those too will not be free per tonne of avoided CO. I'll close with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In 2006, Al Gore made a climate film called An Inconvenient Truth. He felt that people might find it a little difficult to be reminded of climate change and of what we all need to change in order to stop that climate change. The funny thing was that the most important thing we can do and what's the easiest thing to stop climate change was to reduce our meat and dairy consumption even for Al Gore was too uncomfortable. That wasn't in his movie. So the Party for Animals, when freshly elected to the House of Representatives, made a film about the climate consequences of our meat consumption. The whole Chamber turned upside down: it wouldn't be true and the figures were wrong. The then Minister of Agriculture, Gerda Verburg, had her own University of Wageningen recalculate everything, but six months later they had to come to the conclusion that this livestock farming is quite a major cause of global warming. I brought the movie, it might be a pretty good going-away present for this minister. We just wanted to make the point that there is a big taboo in the most effective way to curb climate change. Scientists from PBO have said years ago: those costs of climate change are quite annoying; they are quite high, but we can halve them if we eat less meat. Research after research after research, and yet it remains a big taboo, also for the present cabinet. Now, ten years after our climate film, there is another study, in this case of the Louis Bolk Institute. Nature & Environment also say: hey, we have now signed a climate treaty with binding objectives in Paris, let's prepare society for what it needs. They come up with detailed analyses of the need to reduce livestock and to reduce our consumption of meat and dairy products. And the cabinet actually says, "Well, no, that's something else, it's difficult, it's difficult, the production's gonna move. Is the taboo so insurmountable that we cannot even admit that a shrinkage of livestock and less consumption are much needed to meet the climate targets? We see Secretary of State Dijksma, who we had also invited to this debate, still stand in Rotterdam, at the national climate panel. She said there's no taboos. There are no taboos, because the task we endorsed in Paris is so great that we have to make every effort. No taboos, and yet this, although outgoing, cabinet is stuck in the old rhetoric that would reduce the consumption of meat and shrink livestock. We want parties that have committed themselves to the Paris climate agreement to do what is necessary. I specifically look at D66, the Christian Union, but also at the less enthusiastic parties CDA and VVD. You've been in, do whatever it takes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like you to meet Piet Hermus, farmer in Zevenbergschen Hoek. At the beginning of this year he stood with tractors and banners along the highway A16. He wanted to draw attention to climate change, which also affects him as a farmer. More and more, his crops are underwater. His statement is also: climate change is a problem, but farmers have a solution. That was also the text on the banner. That's right. Crops absorb CO and the carbon storage in the soil is good for soil fertility. There are potentially about 1 megaton equivalents per year to capture CO in agricultural soils and landscape elements. How can farmers value that, I ask the Minister. Is the Minister also working to gain insight into CO capture at plot level? Mr. Chairman. In this context, I would also like to mention that the agricultural sector is one of the few sectors that has already achieved the objectives of the energy agreement. Together with Wageningen University, Dutch agriculture and horticulture has a lot of knowledge to help farmers in developing countries with agricultural techniques that take into account environmental and climate objectives. Is all this enough now? No, Mr. Chairman. The sector itself recognises that more is needed than this. For example, dairy farming in the sustainable dairy chain is working on solutions to reduce CO, methane and nitrous oxide emissions. These are market initiatives which the Christian Union welcomes. We are also enthusiastic about initiatives involving public authorities and the sector. I am thinking of the Covenant Clean and Economical Agrosectors. We are also looking at the revision of the new European agricultural policy. This is an important route for the Christian Union to address societal challenges, where we also see food production as an important social task, as well as a future for young farmers. Mr. Chairman. The call for livestock shrinkage is too easy and does not reflect the industry's own efforts to produce more in balance with the environment. The Christian Union wants farmers to be able to innovate on the farmyard, so that they can contribute to an agricultural system that recognises climate change. That requires them to have investment space. A shrinkage of the livestock is at odds with that. I also suspect that the production will move abroad. This means an end to many family farms and young farmers in our country. That is what the Christian Union certainly does not want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u7	We often place our hopes on the Christian Union, because it stands for sustainability and genuinely wants to tackle climate change. At the same time, we can see that this is immediately stopped when it comes to agriculture. I sincerely ask Mrs Dik-Faber to do the following. We know that the climate goals of Paris are very strong. The Christian Union recognizes that. Then it is not in the interest of us to delay, delay and wait for measures to be taken. We already know that shrinkage is inevitable. Surely it is much better to provide clarity for farmers in the sense of 'we must go there'? Then there's time to switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u8	Certainly climate change is something the Christian Union is deeply concerned about. Agriculture, too, will have to take account of climate change and contribute to a solution. I do not share Mrs Ouwehand's remark that shrinking livestock is the solution. What I see is an agricultural sector that is willing to accept its responsibility. I started with the story of Piet Hermus, who also suffers from climate change and says: we want to do something with our crops, with our soils to stop that climate change. I mentioned the sustainable dairy chain. Not all dairy farmers are enthusiastic about this, but the sector itself takes the responsibility for implementing the measures needed to bring about climate change on the farm. I'm happy about that. Can we also welcome the industry's efforts instead of just calling for livestock to shrink?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mrs Ouwehand, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u10	But our responsibility is to conduct prudent and sound policies. If independent researchers have been pointing out to us for years the need to reduce our meat consumption and to reduce livestock because otherwise those environmental and climate targets will simply not come within reach, it is, of course, fine if the sector is moving. But it is up to us to make policies that are sustainable in the long term and to provide clarity to farmers: this is where it has to go and we are going to help them get there in this way. Why does the Christian Union refuse to give that clarity to farmers now, when independent science has been pointing us where it should go for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u11	I see a social debate in the Netherlands about our food system, the way we eat and what we eat. This social debate has led to people eating less meat than the year before, in my opinion, for the first time in the past year. They don't need a motion from the Party for Animals for that. That won't be necessary. When it comes to meat production and consumption, I fear that I am almost certain that if we decide to reduce the number of livestock in the Netherlands, business will move. This means that production goes to other countries, where animal welfare is not as well secured as here in the Netherlands. The Party for Animals won't be too happy about that either. Finally, I would like to mention another independent research institute, which has not been mentioned, and that is the PBL. The PBL has calculated and calculated our electoral programme and concludes that, without shrinking livestock, we can meet the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u12	The position of the Christian Union continues to amaze me on this dossier. There are all kinds of analyses, up to 2030, and especially if you look further, that indicate that this size of livestock in a country that is the most dense of all of Europe and perhaps the most dense of cattle in the world is too much and too large. That is not a political wishful thinking. That is a fact that is simply presented to us from a scientific point of view, repeatedly. I hear Mrs Dik-Faber reacting: yes, then it just moves abroad. A coal power station that we close here, you agree, I think, that we want it to move abroad too. We all have a climate goal and we find that there is no other way. Why does the Christian Union not have the courage to say: we can still talk about how quickly, how much and when exactly, but actually it is inevitable? That would be political courage. Would Mrs Dik-Faber be willing to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u13	The Christian Union has had its election programme passed on with courage by the PBL. Other parties in the Chamber who also support the climate agreement have not done so. The VVD does, not the Party for Animals. We come to the conclusion that without shrinking the livestock, you can achieve the climate objectives. When we talk about courage, I would like to say that I see a courageous agricultural sector, which is prepared to take painful steps too. Once again, this sustainable dairy chain is not embraced by all farmers. They get regulations on regulation. The Netherlands has the best environment and animal welfare. That's because of rules, too. I understand very well that farmers are done with it once in a while. So now we have the sustainable dairy chain and yet sector says: we are going to do it. I see dairy farmers saying: we have the courage to contribute to this, we are going to do it because we also see that it is necessary and we want to take responsibility. I would like GroenLinks to have an eye for that and not to remain the mantra: we solve everything if only those cattle have shrunk, then the problem is solved. That's way too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr Grashoff, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u15	The latter would be too easy. That is not what we are saying at all. I am very much in favour of a sustainable dairy chain and such initiatives. But I will just mention one point for Mrs Dik-Faber to think through. If you really want to go to a sustainable dairy chain, you have to recognise that this is not possible with this size of livestock. Because you don't get it sustainable for all those cows that, for example, never get into the meadow and are locked up in megasthals. Mrs Dik-Faber knows that as well as I do. Could she ever come this far to let go of the reverse mantra, which is that the size of the livestock should not be affected?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u16	No. We have discussed in detail the position of dairy farming in our country. We have talked about pig farming in our country, which is now taking responsibility for how pig farming can have a future in our country. We have talked about a land-based growth in dairy farming. I think there's been enough talk about it. I see a sector that is on the move, a sector that wants to be forward-looking, regardless of whether it concerns poultry farming, pig farming or dairy farming. I see a sector that is also aware of climate change. These are initiatives that are being taken from within the sector itself. I am happy to do this with the sector: the government as a partner of the sector. The unilateral proclamation of measures towards shrinkage does not lead to a desired solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr. Chairman. When this debate was requested at the time of the organisation of work, I indicated that it did not seem sensible to me to start a debate on every aspect of the climate agreement, but that, according to the CDA, it should be seen in conjunction with each other. I was further strengthened in the preparation of this debate. The reason for this debate is a press release on the Exploration to a land-based dairy farming, by the Louis Bolk Institute. It was commissioned by Milieudefensie. When I read the report, I noticed a number of things. The research question was not: how do we comply with the Paris climate agreement? The research question was: make it clear what a sustainable, more regionally organised and in size smaller dairy farming looks like. The mission of Milieudefensie to the Louis Bolk Institute was further to explore the possibilities and the consequences of a reduction in dairy farming linked to a land-based dairy farming with grazing and application of regional feed. In doing so, Milieudefensie specifically asked to calculate the size and structure of dairy farming on the basis of: - no derogation, - a legal obligation for soil and grazing; - prohibition of manure processing, - a ban on the export of cattle manure; - a strengthened climate and ammonia policy and; - European origin of concentrated feed. I conclude that the report paid for by Milieudefensie is not about meeting the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. Mr President, it is clear that further efforts by agriculture and horticulture are also needed to comply with the Paris climate agreement. We must not forget that a starting point of the climate agreement is that tackling climate change and greenhouse gas emissions must not endanger food production. This challenge will have to be met by the Dutch cabinet and our farmers and growers together. The CDA is proud of the contribution our agriculture and horticulture makes to sustainable energy production. 42% of all renewable energy and energy saving in the Netherlands is done by the agricultural sector. This makes it one of the few sectors in the Netherlands that has already achieved the 2020 agreements under the Energy Agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u19	It was obvious that the CDA group would try to attack the research of the Louis Bolk Institute, commissioned by Milieudefensie, on all sides. But the joke is this. It is true, this has been presented as: this is what is needed to achieve the climate targets. But the Louis Bolk Institute is an agricultural research institute. What it has done is to look at: what other conditions do we actually impose on farmers or will they be subjected to in the future? So it's an integral look at the end point that farmers have to meet. That's clarity. Why is the CDA so opposed to that? And why is the CDA so committed to a new measure every year? That's not gonna help the farmers, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u20	From the point of view of the Animal Party and Mrs Ouwehand, I understand that. The Party for Animals wants to reduce livestock and livestock farming in the Netherlands by at least 70%. But here the starting points were different. I just mentioned them. One of them is: no derogation. The CDA would like a derogation. The Chamber has also ruled by majority that we are going for a derogation. Another point of departure is a ban on manure processing. I also just said that the CDA does want manure treatment. So that point of departure is not correct in relation to the final conclusion that is drawn. The report says that if you do all these things, you can meet them. The starting points are wrong. I have just argued and explained it in detail. If these are the starting points for launching such a study, then the results are predictable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u21	The Louis Bolk Institute has outlined a number of scenarios and you cannot endorse a number of things, but the fact remains that limits are imposed on Dutch agriculture, environmental limits and climate targets. They're coming. Secretary of State Dijksma said they're coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u22	Can you come to a question? Your interruptions are really too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr. President, excuse me. So why doesn't the CDA want to do the exercise that's needed now so the farmers know what they're gonna have to meet? This is a postponement of execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u24	The reason for this debate was a message that the Dutch livestock must shrink in order to meet the objectives of the climate agreement. The report Exploratory for a land-based dairy farming is used to underpin what I have just argued. In the letter we received from the cabinet, it is very clear that a recent RIVM report shows that the NEC objectives can be achieved without additional measures. The Netherlands already complies with it. That is not what other European countries can say, I say to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u25	The results of climate action in agriculture have so far been quite satisfactory. This applies to the objectives so far, not to the 2030 targets. But does Mr Geurts agree with me that they are almost entirely affected by greenhouse horticulture? Is it perhaps a little strange in Mr Geurt's view to assume that the livestock sector is allowed to stay completely out of sight and that the greenhouse horticulture is perhaps still at the stage of completing the remaining part of the task?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u26	I am very grateful to Mr Grashoff that I am now able to express explicitly my pride towards greenhouse horticulture. Yes, it makes an incredible contribution to renewable energy. I think that is a good thing, but that is without prejudice to the fact that livestock farming is also making its contribution; I just mentioned the NEC directive. We're about to discuss nitrogen in another debate. Then comes the next part, where you can see that other sectors have really reduced a lot, including ammonia. I am incredibly proud of that, I say to Mr Grashoff. I hope he will be, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u27	One thing is very clear: virtually no results have been achieved in the climate sector in the livestock sector. It did happen in greenhouse horticulture. I think it would be wise, even for the CDA, to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u28	That's more of an opinion. I said what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a written discussion this morning on the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme, we are about to have a debate on nitrogen and we are talking about greenhouse gases and the climate agreement. Three seemingly separate subjects, all of which know the same involuntary main character, namely the Dutch livestock. For the SP Group, it is clear that limiting this multi-problem, because that is what it is in fact, requires a reduction in Dutch livestock. The report of the Louis Bolk Institute is useful in this respect, not only because of the different scenarios that have been passed on, but also because of the explicit warning of escalating social costs. It makes it clear that there is a choice between once hard-hungry, in my opinion, all of us know this year how terrible a clean-up in dairy farming can be in practice, or a regulated reduction, for example through land-based standards. But I do understand the mistrust of Mr Geurts, for example. Because there's a report, it's paid for and the client always has influence. So if, for example, the Minister comes up with a report from the ECN and the PBL, I will take that with great interest. Part of the European climate agreements is the commitment of the Netherlands to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 36% by 2030 for the so-called sectors not covered by the ETS, the emissions trading system. These sectors are briefly referred to: transport, buildings, agriculture. If you think that agriculture will not be covered by the further climate agreements, you have to assume that we in the Netherlands will live exclusively in wooden houses and do everything by bike in the coming years, otherwise achieving these objectives is very unlikely. In that report there is a crucial sentence, which the Minister quoted in his letter, namely: "The Netherlands (...) is at greater risk of falling behind in the non-ETS sectors on the reduction path towards the long-term targets for 2050, and may need to step up their efforts to meet non-ETS targets for the period after 2030 after 2030." In other words, this is a warning that we should take to heart: no intervention can very well mean that we will eventually have to do much more later. This cabinet, which has been so dedicated to protecting future generations from debt, as we have often heard the cabinet say, should now also protect future generations from climate debt that we are facing. Don't intervene now means pay later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. This year, livestock farming has to do with the slaughter of 160,000 dairy cows in order to comply with European legislation, barn fires, countless dead pigs and a moratorium on livestock farming in Brabant and Gelderland. D66 does not see it as incidents but sees, like the PBL, a gap between having to compete at cost on the world market on the one hand and the limits of scaling up and intensification in the Netherlands on the other. The question for the coming years is also whether we are going to continue with incident policy, or whether we are going to talk about the future of livestock farming. For example, the PBL advocates a system transition, a change in the earning model. D66 is clear about this: we need to talk about the future, so that farmers know where they stand, and are really going to work on challenges in the field of nature and climate. There are two ways to meet this challenge: reducing the number of animals that Louis Bolk and recently PBL advocated, or linking climate change to a necessary transition of our food production. That transition is aimed at the long term, but so are the climate projections. D66 wants to feed animals smarter and use the manure to make the soil healthier. Many animals also eat grain from which you can just as easily make bread. If cows only eat grass, pigs only waste streams and chickens only insects, in the Netherlands we keep the landscape intact and save the rainforests. At the same time, if we make the soil and our crops healthy again, we will need fewer pesticides or fertilizers and we will store the carbon back in the soil. The efficiency of today is in the chain. By starting to think from the efficiency of the cycle, climate change can take care of itself and we are working on renewing the earning model. D66 therefore welcomes the Minister's proposal for a soil strategy. In view of its importance, I would ask the Minister what place the cycle will be in this soil strategy. Mr. Chairman. From the cycle, there is still a world of efficiency to gain. Let us explore and exploit the opportunities in the coming years so that we can transcend incidents and allow Paris to benefit the farmer, nature and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u33	Mr De Groot sets out an attractive perspective, namely that of closing circles. He said, among other things, let's say that pigs eat from the residual streams and not from the corn fields we're growing for now, and we don't import soy for that anymore. Mr Geurts now calls that pigs do not eat that, but they do eat the scrap. Does Mr De Groot agree with me that we would have considerably fewer pigs and, to some extent, fewer cows if we did so? Because if you close those loops, that feed is therefore important for the number of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u34	You have to look at the whole picture. You can't talk to fewer animals very quickly. It can of course be that you end up with a earning model in which you can earn more with less production. Let me give you an example. If you are putting the whole dairy farming in the Netherlands about 14 billion kilos of milk only on grass and residues from the food industry, then you have about 3 billion kilos less milk. That doesn't automatically mean fewer animals. For what if that 3 billion kilos less milk is just the amount to be disposed of in bad years on the world market at a loss, with the result that the average price for farmers is lower? That's what it's about, of course. You need to look at the whole pay model. You also have to look at the question of whether you can get more sustainable feed with that feed trail and whether you can actually start feeding less cereals. So yes, you may have fewer animals, but you don't have to. Well, your footprint goes down and that's what it's about. For D66, having fewer animals is not necessarily the solution you start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u35	It may seem different, but that's not what I'm arguing for. I would argue that we should also take a critical look at the dogma of the size of livestock. If I understand Mr De Groot correctly, he actually says that the number of animals is a result. I challenge him to analyse this carefully, also on the basis of all the scientific studies. Then you have to say, like me, that it is inevitable that the livestock will be reduced. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u36	I find that conclusion very quickly drawn. You do not necessarily have to deal with fewer animals, as I pointed out in my example on dairy farming. You may be going to produce a little less, which of course can also be very good for your earning model. With the milk you produce, you can really distinguish yourself. This allows you to make a difference in the market. For D66, the number of animals isn't sacred, no. But it's too simple to start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u37	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Everyone's for clean air. So the climate affects all of us. Today, but also in the future, we want to deal with our living environment in an economical way. We therefore face a number of important challenges in the coming years. With various action programmes and with the signing of the Paris climate agreement, we show that we are tackling climate change seriously. This debate is about a report commissioned by Milieudefensie that would show that the Dutch livestock will have to reduce by at least 500,000 cows in 2030 in order to meet the climate agreement's objective. This is way too short a turn. Of course, everyone has to contribute to the climate objectives, including livestock farming. But dairy farming is unjustly placed here as the great culprit. You can't do that! The report is incomplete and unsubstantiated. Mr. Chairman. The climate does not adhere to borders, let alone to different sectors. The VVD wants a climate policy that leads to results. This means that we must also assess climate policy in a coherent way. Unlike Milieudefensie, who points her finger at livestock farming and wants to discourage dairy consumption, I would like to emphasise the innovative strength of livestock farming tonight. With a growing world population and increasing demand for food, it is important that we give the sector an opportunity to address climate issues with innovations from now on. With the knowledge and expertise of our Dutch farmers and industry, we can also reduce the impact of climate change worldwide. In addition, the agricultural sector makes an important contribution to the production of renewable energy and the sector has great potential to capture CO in soil. To sum up, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch dairy farming is not the problem, but it has the solution to many climate issues. Let's make room for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Chamber wishes to discuss with me the relationship between the size of livestock and the climate objectives. It is perhaps appropriate to outline the general framework for this. We have the Paris agreement, as some of you have mentioned, and we have agreed that the global temperature increase must remain well below 2°C and that we must achieve climate neutrality in the second half of this century. Within the European Union, we must make an important contribution to this and have agreed to come up with a common approach. For this purpose, the legislative proposals within the European Union are now under discussion. How do you translate this ambition for the world and for Europe into the Netherlands? For the Netherlands, greenhouse gas emissions for the non-ETS sectors, which are not covered by the ETS, should be reduced by 36% between 2005 and 2030. This is mainly about emissions of CO. The rest, methane and nitrous oxide, can be converted into CO equivalents. The non-ETS sectors are the sectors built environments, which is, of course, a lot of smaller industry, mobility, which is also very large, greenhouse horticulture and agriculture. We have not yet decided on the scale of the task for the different sectors. That's still gonna happen. Nor will this outgoing cabinet; the next cabinet must make choices. Those choices must be made not only for livestock farming, but for all the sectors I have just mentioned. Some of you say that the reduction in livestock is the solution. Others, like Mrs Dik-Faber, contradicted that. Mrs Lodders even said that livestock farming can bring the solution. In the same spirit, Mr Geurts spoke out. To some extent the issue of reducing livestock is already being discussed, because the size of livestock is now limited by environmental limits as we have agreed with each other. This concerns, for example, the phosphate policy for dairy farming, which has been discussed a great deal. This has led to a reduction in the size of the dairy herd. We have done so in order to avoid an even greater restriction as a result of the abolition of the derogation. Last December, the Planning Office for the Environment outlined in a report the technical measures that could be taken to achieve the climate targets in the year 2050, in which neutrality must be achieved. These are technical measures, again in all sectors, not only in agriculture but also in the energy sector. It is quite remarkable that no volume measures have been included in the proposals of the Plan Bureau for the Environment, not even for livestock farming. The cabinet is primarily looking for cost-effective solutions to climate policy, as Mrs Lodder also advocated. There are many different possibilities in the agricultural and horticultural sector to meet climate objectives and achieve CO reduction. The cabinet has the best possibilities in view and also exploited. We're gonna talk about the Program Approaching Nitrogen later. I will therefore come up with figures on how developments have been and will be. We have the phosphate legislation, which I have just mentioned. We have the Law on soil-based growth dairy farming and the Law on responsible growth dairy farming. What can be done there cost-effectively is being done. We are very aware of the climate in livestock farming. In recent years, a series of measures have been taken to comply with the commitments made on energy savings, renewable energy production and greenhouse gas reductions by 2020. They did that in the Covenant Clean and Economical. Specifically for the dairy sector, the Sustainable Dairy Chain, the cooperation of NZO and LTO, has also explicitly included climate in the work programme and has recently taken the initiative for a large-scale roll-out of monofertilisation. I sometimes hear some of the remarks that sound scornful, but I think this is totally unjustified. If we take advantage of the total potential of this manure fermentation, this will lead to a reduction in CO emissions of 4,63 million tonnes. That's a huge amount, but you have to get that going. In particular, you also need to reduce the cost. That cost was well above €0.20 per kilowatt hour. We have now succeeded, as a result of the initiative taken by the sector, in reducing the cost to between €0.12 and 12.5 cents per kilowatt hour. This has been achieved through an initiative by FrieslandCampina, which has the ambition to have 1,000 monofertilisers in the dairy farms by 2020. A reduction of 0.35 million tonnes of CO will be achieved immediately. That is a very good start, together with that cost reduction, to get that whole potential of 4.63 million tonnes in the end. I think we should talk more positively about monofertilisation, as one of the many initiatives taken in the sector to contribute significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u41	The Minister praised initiatives from the sector, and that is absolutely right, but the Dutch government has now also invested some 2.5 billion in subsidies for manure fermentation. Does the Minister really think that this is an efficient way to tackle the climate problem, if we look at all the costs we have to make? It is going to be a very expensive operation to get that cost in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u42	With a quick start of the monofertilisation process, where the largest company in the Netherlands, FrieslandCampina, has the ambition to install 1,000 of these plants at the dairy farmers' premises in 2020, something is really being set in motion. Our intention was to achieve this price reduction from more than €0.20 per kilowatt hour to 12.5 cents. This initiative has helped to achieve this in the short term. I believe that this is an excellent initiative, that many good initiatives are being taken in the agricultural sector and that the objectives set for the agricultural sector are being met. They are capable of doing so, because they are motivated and organized. This will also enable us to achieve what we want to achieve. Let us be aware that we are talking about one of the pillars of prosperity here. It's wonderful that we're talking about care and benefits here, and all kinds of things we have to do to help and cater to people, but the money has to be earned first. The agricultural sector as a whole accounts for 20% of exports and an important pillar of our prosperity. If that pillar can be maintained in a responsible way, and this has always been possible so far, because the measures that are needed can also be taken and implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u43	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u44	The way in which we must implement the climate objectives at national level requires a joint effort by all parties, especially in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. In doing so, the overall agricultural and food systems should be considered in conjunction. Mrs Ouwehand is right to say that the consumer has a role to play in this. The choices, behaviour and consumption of consumers have a major impact. I agree with her that attention should also be paid to this. I can imagine that climate policy requires a lot of far-reaching choices, but I leave them to the new cabinet, both in the livestock sector and in the other non-ETS sectors. Maybe one more thing about the report from the Louis Bolk Institute. Mr Geurts has already made a number of relevant comments. In any case, we can see that the existing agreements and packages of measures are sufficient to meet the currently agreed reduction targets for both ammonia and nitrogen emissions. This was also recorded by the cabinet in its response to that report. I do not know why, if we were to have new reduction targets, we would not be able to agree on this again. The Netherlands has had phosphate use standards with phosphate balance fertilization since 2015. In addition, the Phosphate Reduction Plan 2017 reduces the production of phosphate within the limit of the derogation conditions. Furthermore, the phosphate rights system will be introduced from 1 January 2018. I think that these are all comments from the cabinet on the report of the Louis Bolk Institute which are relevant. I think it is good to have an opportunity in this debate, on the basis of the contributions of the spokesmen, to give a more balanced picture. Mr Grashoff asks whether I agree that agriculture should contribute proportionally to achieving the climate targets and whether I agree that livestock should shrink. It has just been said that 160,000 cows are already less affected by the efforts we have to make to maintain the derogation. So that's already on the table. Proportional contributions: I cannot look at this entirely because a number of sectors have to contribute and a number of sectors have already contributed. New choices need to be made. It makes no sense for me to dwell on the significance of these choices for the contribution by one or the other. That's really something for the new cabinet. I have responded to Mrs Ouwehand's comments. The same applies to Mrs Dik-Faber's comments. I can largely agree with what she has said. She asked how farmers can also measure the contribution they make to the reduction of CO at plot level, so that that money is worth. A reduction in this contribution can be achieved mainly in the food chain. You have products with a low climate impact. You can then market those products. It is up to the producers, the parties themselves, to come up with innovative solutions. I can already see this in the private Sustainable Dairy Chain initiative. I believe that these are good initiatives that can produce the results that Mrs Dik-Faber is aiming for. Then Mr. Geurts...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u45	First, an interruption by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u46	I have a supplementary question. Let me repeat what I said earlier. Is the Minister aware that there is a huge potential for CO storage? I've been told this is one megaton. That's a lot. I agree with the Minister that entrepreneurs who work with them do indeed have opportunities to value that. Then there will also have to be some kind of registration and so on. I understand that, politically speaking, we are now a bit in the meantime, but I can imagine that we are working on a registration of this. It is, after all, an important basic condition for such a system to be set in motion. Is that something the Minister's ministry is paying attention to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u47	Let Mrs. Fat-Faber give me a hand. I was so busy with her second point that I lost the first point. Can she repeat that in a single word?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u48	My first point concerns the potential of storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u49	Yeah, I remember. Mrs Dik-Faber talks about the potential of storage. It is possible to extract about two megatons, two million tonnes, from the storage capacity that exists because of the agricultural crops and forests we have in the Netherlands. But if we say this to each other, we must also recognise that as a result of the reduction in the number of peat meadows in the Netherlands, there is an additional emissions of between 6 and 9 million tonnes. That's the other side of the complicated medal. In total, livestock farming contributes about 20 million tonnes to CO emissions in the Netherlands, which is in the order of 200 million tonnes. Those are the greats we're talking about. Mrs Dik-Faber's second point was about registration. May I take that remark from her and look at it in the light of a positive reaction? She said that the sector could consider how the market could take place, as is the case in the sustainable dairy chain initiative. I will take her suggestion and come back to it on occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u50	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u51	I have already replied to Mr Geurts' questions. Mr Futselaar said that he wanted action to be taken now and that there was a need for a reduction in livestock. I have already made a number of comments on this. Mr De Groot spoke about the gap in which farmers find themselves. I always use the word "farmers" and I use that word with pride, like Mr Geurts. I think of it as a nickname. There is indeed a gap for the farmers, but the farmers are often in a gap. What they take out and what we all benefit from in the Netherlands is what I described at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u52	I have a specific question, Mr President. A soil strategy has been announced in the budget, including a motion by Mr Geurts last year. The question was to what extent do the elements of the cycle I mentioned find a place in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u53	I certainly intended to respond to Mr De Groot's comment. I'm sorry I gave you the impression that I wasn't going to. I think Mr De Groot is right to draw attention to this. A sustainable soil is the basis for a sustainable food system. This is very important for the climate, water quality and certainly for the biodiversity that is so important. In the food letter, I announced that I will engage with stakeholders in dialogue on how sustainable soil management can be further promoted. This dialogue is currently under way and there must certainly be room for the cycles. I am convinced that the new cabinet will consider the strategy to be followed on this issue. I will certainly not fail to provide the necessary pre-work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u54	However, I would like to hear a response from the cabinet to the vision outlined by D66 on respect for the cycle. Doesn't that also lead to a shrinkage of the livestock, or does the government think that you can close the loops with the current size of the livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u55	I am never so crazy about pretending that the Netherlands can solve the climate problem by closing circles on its own. I'll run it against the coal plants. In the Netherlands coal power stations had to be shut down, whereas those are the most efficient coal plants in Europe. And then we should close it down and let the less efficient coal plants in Poland, Germany and other countries run! And now we should change and close things here again, and then fill up market demand in other countries in a much less responsible way, which makes the world worse on balance. I am therefore not going to respond to such a remark by Mrs Ouwehand or Mr De Groot in the way that Mrs Ouwehand would wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u56	I understand the Minister doesn't necessarily embrace the idea of the circle. It is also a missionary cabinet, so it will not lead to a ruling on climate policy. But despite the fact that this Minister is new to agriculture, I think he can well acknowledge that the idea of closing circles while maintaining the current livestock is ridicul. I think the Minister has worked long enough to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u57	Yeah, I've worked for that long enough, but I'm definitely not gonna acknowledge that. I have great admiration for what New Zealand is doing in the dairy sector. That's impressive. I also have great admiration for what the Netherlands is doing in the dairy sector. I also greatly appreciate the farmers, the farmers, as I said earlier, who are trying to do this responsibly. They are constantly interacting with the government and, if agreements come to fruition, they also comply with those agreements. I'm looking at that my way. That is another way than Mrs Ouwehand's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u58	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u59	Mr De Groot also spoke about a system transition; about a change in the earning model. The cabinet received an ESC opinion from the Nipples Commission. I am really impressed by everything that comes out of Mr Nijpels' hands. I have that in the field of energy, but also now in this area. I really admire that. The cabinet has received this advice and will decide on follow-up steps with regard to the further transition of livestock farming. I believe that such an ESC opinion is of great importance and we will therefore respond to it. We'll get back to that. I also referred to what Mrs Lodder said. I therefore hope that this was to the satisfaction of the Chamber for the first time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u60	I suspect there is another question from Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u61	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Could the Minister go back to the idea of the cost-efficiency of climate action in agriculture? I see the cabinet so far, for example, opting to invest heavily in manure fermentation. You can have all kinds of discussions about that, but has there been any real analysis of this cabinet? Could this minister advise his successor to re-assess the social costs and benefits of the various options that contribute to the climate goals of our agricultural sector? The danger is that that might have surprising results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u62	I cannot understand the consequences of such a broad and general question. I believe that a great deal of analysis has already been carried out during this cabinet period and that it must now remain at the end of this cabinet period. We will see what the successors give priority to and what they want to do, but at the moment I do not want to make a statement or announce anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u63	Does the Minister agree with me that it would be wise to reconcile the social costs and benefits of some of these scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u64	We never avoid anything. If we are in the process of complying with the Paris climate agreement, with the implementation of the energy agreement or with the Energy Agenda for 2050, then it is never the case that we say: 'Oh, we have to think of a few things and, above all, keep agriculture out of the way.' It's never like that. The whole thing is always being looked at. This is advised by all kinds of stakeholders. That is the subject of discussion and it is a question of acceptance. And then agreements come out, and we're gonna do it. But there's never a sector left out. On the contrary, all sectors are involved. Mr Geurts said that, in general terms, the agreements in the agricultural sector are being implemented very well. I wouldn't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u65	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u66	Mr. Chairman. There will be a lot of water going through the Rhine before the inevitability of shrinkage of livestock in the Netherlands will be widely recognized. That moment will surely come. So I'm happy to meet that. And the one who actually knows but doesn't dare to say it is Mr De Groot. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of Dutch farmers lost thousands to tens of thousands of euros each year to dispose of their manure;]] [[Whereas a smaller herd may contribute to significantly lower manure disposal costs, it may even lead to manure disposal benefits, and this may also contribute to the reduction of manure fraud;]] [[calls on the government to assess the impact of a smaller herd on the costs incurred by livestock farmers for their manure disposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34295-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr De Groot is taking the bait, Mr President. Let there be no doubt that there is certainly a need for regional intervention in livestock farming, especially in relation to the nuisance caused by intensive livestock farming for local residents, and in nature areas. But I would like to emphasise that it is ultimately a better earning model, which is good for nature and the climate. That doesn't necessarily start with fewer animals, but I certainly don't rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u68	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u69	I would like to come back to the motion by GroenLinks on part No. 21. It's such an open door: if you don't have animals in the Netherlands, you don't have manure disposal costs, do you? Do you have to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u70	I do not know whether Mr Geurts has heard my contribution at all or whether he did want to hear it, but I am not in favour of abolishing livestock farming at all. If that's what he thinks, he's way off. Then I can help him. I am in favour of shrinking livestock farming in such a way that it is balanced with what this country can do in terms of soil and climate. I'm optimistic that you can do that with a smaller herd. If you do that and get into that balance, there will be no manure disposal costs. That is what I would like to try to bring forward through this investigation. Then there are probably manure disposal benefits and then the livestock farmer's earning model improves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u71	I ask for clarification on the motion. I read or heard her like this: if you don't have animals, you don't have manure disposal costs. So you want to have calculated at what time... you already nod; then I want to stop. It is therefore a question of when the size of the manure disposal is going to generate yield for a farmer. Do you want to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u72	Yes, I find it truly interesting to know such a turning point. We have seen graphs from Wageningen University showing even a rather sharp turning point for pig farming. But it was not possible to say directly which border it is about; I have to say that honestly. That's exactly what I'd like to know. In my view, it is an interesting question, which also makes sense from an economic point of view. So I hope for the support of Mr Geurts. Mr. Chairman. I have one final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself to the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas agriculture will also have to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[calls on the government to identify scenarios at which and at what rate livestock can be reduced, including cost and benefit analysis compared to other policy options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34295-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u73	Thank you, Mr President. We can hear it very often in agricultural debates: farmers deserve clarity. So let us do so for the climate targets that are coming towards us. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Paris Climate Agreement will deliver firm reduction targets for livestock farming to be achieved by 2030;]] [[believes that farmers deserve clarity;]] [[brings the political courage to admit that a shrinkage of the Dutch livestock is inevitable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34295-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u74	I actually had a longer motion. I would have liked to say: and brings even more political courage by admitting that a significant reduction in the consumption of meat and dairy products is necessary, not only in order to achieve climate objectives but also in order to feed the world's population. But I'll save that motion for another time. Let's take it one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u75	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Geurts. He's dropping his second term. The same applies to Mr Futselaar, Mr De Groot and Mrs Lodders. Then we have reached the end of the second term of office. We are waiting for a brief moment for the Minister to have the texts of all the motions. I give the floor to the Minister for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first, the second and the third motions are all about reducing livestock numbers in the Netherlands. The Chamber knows that I hate to discourage motions and not carry out motions. But I'm not getting out of it this time to discourage the motions, I'm afraid. For I do not think that we should set the reduction of livestock as a kind of target or set something as a sort of inevitable and then look at how we can make all kinds of calculations about it. So Mr Grashoff's motion on item No. 21, in which he asks the government to have a map of the impact of a smaller herd on the costs that farmers have lost for their manure disposal, I do not want to give a positive opinion. I'm not going to go out with those smaller cattle. I therefore reject this motion by Mr Grashoff and Mr Futselaar. In the second motion tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Futselaar, in part No. 22, the government is asked to identify scenarios by which and at what rate the livestock can be reduced. I don't want to, because that's not the goal I want to go to. That is why I also advise against this second motion by both gentlemen. The third motion, in part No. 23, belongs to Mrs. Ouwehand. In this way, the Court should state that the reduction of livestock is inevitable. I don't have that view. I believe that we must implement all agreements on climate, CO, renewable energy and the quality of water and soil. We must then consider the measures to be taken. Then we can see what measures they are. I am not ruling out any measure in advance, but to say in advance 'we are picking out the size of the livestock and it must be reduced in any case' is not my view, and that is why I reject this motion by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-21-tweedekamer-12.u77	This brings us to the end of the 30-member debate on the message that the Dutch livestock must shrink in order to meet the objectives of the climate agreement. I would like to thank the Minister for taking part in this part of the meeting. We're running into the schedule, but I'm suspending the sitting until 8:15. Then we shall continue with the next 30 Members' debate on nitrogen emissions.
