ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA, who is asking the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management about the security of locks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. You shouldn't think that in a country like the Netherlands, where the whole world is looking at how we keep the water out of the dikes, something would be wrong with the security of our locks on a large scale. Only in the Zuidplaspolder, next to the A20, will you be more than 6 meters under NAP, depending on the national water system for your dry feet. Still, there's a lot going on with the security of our locks, among other things. This weekend, the Homeland Government magazine headlined "Sluices gammel protected," and also says that it looks like the waterboards are sticking their heads in the sand. Software for our locks lasts 25 to 30 years, but is supported with security updates for up to five years after purchase. A reliable source within the water shelves reports that the security of the software with which lock doors are operated is currently raging. Just think about it; a hacker can now open lock doors remotely, without us noticing that immediately. Especially when a hacker would do that to many systems at the same time, great damage can be caused. A list of problems is given in the article. There would often be no crucial maintenance for older software available. Waterboards would have too small budgets to run tests. In procurement, there would be insufficient attention to information security. Waterboards can barely compete against powerful software providers. There would also be no good legislation to enforce security. In the Infrastructure and Water State budget, the Minister said that cyber security is of great importance, but she didn't say much about it. The CDA does not consider it acceptable that our locks are currently at risk. Hence a number of questions to the Minister. Does the Minister recognise that we are in unacceptable danger in the Netherlands when it comes to monitoring our locks? What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms in connection with the article in order to secure our infrastructure digitally? Is the Minister prepared to take a quick look at Rijkswaterstaat's own infrastructure and consult with waterboards and municipalities, which also manage large-scale locks, on what is possible to prevent the hacking of locks and bridges? Does she want to inform the Chamber about the outcome of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mr Van der Molen is asking these questions. I have indicated in our ministry's budget that I want to make cybersecurity a very important priority myself. If you say that it is unacceptable that our critical infrastructure runs this kind of risk, I agree directly with you. Fortunately, the critical infrastructure has very good security. He's in very good shape. You refer to the article, which deals specifically with the waterboards. The waterboards are not about critical infrastructure. For this, Rijkswaterstaat is responsible, and so are we in the Ministry. Immediately upon my arrival I asked about cyber security in a broad sense, both about what we do in front of prevention and monitoring and what we do in case it should happen. I have found out that in recent years this has been very hard-working. In recent years, around 100 million have been specifically spent on the physical and digital security of critical infrastructure, but we have not finished. There will also be a General Data Protection Regulation, which looks more at privacy risks. Tackling all these digital threats still requires a lot of attention and commitment. Fortunately, that is a spearhead of the cabinet. It's also in the coalition agreement. Extra money will be made available for it. I can see the President seeing that the answer should not be too long, but it was several questions in one. Your suggestion to talk to the field about it was on my list myself. Tomorrow we have an administrative consultation of water, where we have all the partners from the water field, from provinces, municipalities, water boards and the Union of Water Boards at our table. I would very much like to discuss this with them to see what they can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	I agree with the Minister when she says that water boards have their own responsibility, but as a minister, of course, you also want to know that their part of the security of our locks is in order. I am glad to hear that the Minister wants to sit down with water boards and other governments, but it is also important that the Chamber will soon know exactly what the vulnerability of these locks is. I would ask the Minister to be more specific about the commitment to inform the Chamber after the consultation. Could the Minister promise what a possible plan of action will be? The article clearly indicates risks. Could the Minister also let the Chamber know what the specific vulnerabilities are? What are the points we are talking about and what should we take into account? Is the Minister prepared not only to consult with water boards and municipalities, but also to help them in areas where they may not be able to reach themselves, for example with software providers, that they will get security in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Those are again a number of questions. I think it's all in the same line. I want to conclude a new Water Management Agreement with all water managers. As far as I am concerned, cybersecurity is becoming a very new focus on which we agree. Just as you will be informed about the rest of the Water governance agreement, the cybersecurity component will also play an important role in this. We are already working very well with the Union of Water Boards. We also have a security operation center, in which people from the Union of Water Councils are constantly being pushed forward who come along for a number of months, including in the 24/7 services, where they also have to actively seek solutions if something happens. The Union of Water Councils has already been joined, but I would also like to inform you about this. As far as procurement policy is concerned, we are reasonably at the forefront of the principle of security by design. So at the beginning of the design of the system we are already thinking about how to handle cybersecurity. We are already working hard on this, but I would like to inform you how we can carry it out more widely, including in the waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you to the Minister for the commitments. It is good to hear that she is also making cybersecurity a key component of the new agreement that she is also discussing with the waterboards. As a CDA group, we will be looking very critically at this, because the article in the Home Office has stressed the importance of having our cyber security in order. Once again, it is good to hear that the Minister has this in mind in this area too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Then I'll see if there are any additional questions. That's the case. Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, thank you. This is a crucial part of the water infrastructure. If it turns out to be so vulnerable, then it is a good thing to respond to it and to take measures to prevent it. In order to take the right measures, I can imagine that the Minister also wonders where it went wrong in the past and how that situation could have arisen. Does the Minister have a view on this and is he sufficiently acted on it to prevent something similar from happening again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'd like to take away the image that anything would be wrong right now. Especially when it comes to critical infrastructure, I would also like to take away the image that there is still working with outdated software that you would be unable to update. There's been a very close look at the physical security system. How could you access those systems? This is not just about digital security, but also about digital security. It has been ensured that they are standalone systems, which are therefore not connected to the Internet and which are therefore impossible to hack. In addition, there is a back capture that is possible when the system fails, manual or mechanical operation is possible. So you don't have to worry about the fact that there would be something wrong with the really vital parts. As for your question of how we can improve this for the future, I am open to any suggestion, but we are already working hard on it. We will only broaden that in the coming period. I welcome anyone who wishes to give this priority to us. In this respect, it is also very good to see that it is prominent in the coalition agreement, because it applies not only to our critical infrastructure but, of course, to the entire government and our entire business community. Look also at the general Data Protection Regulation that will enter into force in May 2018, to which we have a major challenge with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you.
