ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I was allowed to be in Assen at the opening of the school year at primary school Het Kompas. It was one big party. The students, the parents and the teachers were all very excited. But yesterday there were also men in ski masks at a school. That was at a school in the Netherlands, in Amsterdam. It was a horrible and threatening image. Every child in the Netherlands is allowed to know safely at school. It is unacceptable that differences of opinion, political or religious differences are fought out in this way over the backs of children, who are already a little nervous on their first day of school. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that children's safety should always be paramount and that they should be threatened in this way? Does the Secretary of State, like me, deeply condemn this threat? Yesterday there was intervention, but is there any chance of recurrence or further escalation? If so, how can this be prevented? We can sometimes differ strongly in this Parliament, but I think we agree on one thing: children in the Netherlands must be able to go to school safely. How does the Secretary of State view in this respect the apparent support that some national politicians seem to give to this threat? What's his verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen asks whether the safety of children should be paramount and whether I condemn yesterday's actions. I can be very brief about that: the answer is yes. It will not have escaped your notice that I have some doubts about the establishment of this school, but that is without prejudice to the fact that a number of pupils were already present yesterday. I am therefore pleased that the police have acted quickly and quickly put an end to this action. I understand that those involved have said that the safety of the pupils is not immediately at risk. That's good. There are conversations between the district agent and the school board to see what it takes to get children safely to go to that school if that really starts formally next week. Mr Van Meenen also asks me how I feel about the support for these actions. Actually, I think that's really crazy. I have serious doubts about this, because I believe that this is simply a disturbance of law and order, if not a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for these words. They've been taken from my heart. I hope that all parties of good will will remain alert to this, let me put it this way. This also applies to the Ministry of Education and, of course, to the Ministry of Security and Justice. Because, once again, we agree that all children in the Netherlands should be able to go to school safely. At the same time, the Secretary of State mentioned that this school would not have been there if it had been in the cabinet, the Amsterdam city council and many parties, including D66. In the run-up to the start of this school, there have been serious doubts about the quality. My party did the same. D66 believes that children are not only entitled to safe education, but also to the best education. Then it is not good to experiment with a school, as we could read again this morning in De Volkskrant. These students could be the victims of that. However, the legislation so far does not allow us to assess quality in advance. There may be legislation that will allow it, but it is not there now. School's started. The inspection can therefore begin to establish the quality. My question to the Secretary of State is: how and when is this going to happen? Because, once again, children are entitled to a safe school, but they are also entitled to the best education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	I can only repeat the latter. It must be a good and safe school. Yesterday, that security was at stake. The education inspector will be on top of it to see if the quality of the school is okay. The decision of the Council of State has given the green light to start this school. During the holiday period, the educational inspection requested the documents needed to make its first visit truly useful. She'll see if things are well arranged. That first visit is scheduled for next week. Given the history of this school, I assume that the inspection will ensure that the legal requirements of quality and citizenship are good for this school as well. If that is not the case, then she will act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	Of course, this disgusting and cowardly action can only be ignored. This morning, we read in the newspaper that the Islamic primary schools and the contact body Muslims and Government also have serious objections to this school. This is because of the salafistic basis and the citizenship mission that could not be properly completed. It is even said that these directors have no experience of education at all. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Does he think that a school on a Salafist basis can properly fulfil the democratic citizenship mission of education? If not, how can he ensure that the inspection is monitored and corrected?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr Rog knows that if it had been up to me, this school would not have started. I have checked with the municipality of Amsterdam whether it is wise for this school to start at all. This had to do, among other things, with a statement by one of the former directors and with the fact that the rest of the board, in my view, was too slow to distance itself from it and then avoided the discussions with the inspection. The Council of State has said that we think this is all too thin. I regret that, but unfortunately I have to accept that. There is legislation in the making to check this better in the future in the front, before such a school starts. We must now fall back on the instruments that the inspection has to monitor the quality of a school and on the demands of citizenship, which apply to this school and to every other school. The demands on citizenship state that social inclusion must be achieved. For example, there are a number of other starting principles. If a school is contrary to any of its ideas, it could be said that the quality and soundness of the school are not met. Then the inspection will have an opportunity to address a school and, if necessary, formally intervene on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	The concerns about the establishment of this school are widely shared, as we have noted, both inside and outside this Chamber. But I'm talking about those guys with ski masks on that roof. Unfortunately, we know they're not on their own. There are also men with ski masks and women with ski masks in the US, in Germany, in Scandinavia. Everywhere we see that the extreme right, which by calling itself alt-right is becoming salonfähiger, is taking on an ever larger place in society. What is the government doing to combat this normalization and these excesses, as we have seen again this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	First of all, we do that by acting decisively and quickly when such an incident occurs. Compliments to the police in Amsterdam, who was quickly on the spot and quickly intervened with the school, so that at least the incident did not get out of hand and did not get any more annoying. When it comes to monitoring groups on the extreme right, the same applies to the extreme left side, the security policy of this cabinet, with all the intelligence services and police and judicial measures involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	Your second question, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	These people are part of a large and, as far as I can judge, growing group of people who support these actions both actively and passively. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State a little more about what the Cabinet sees as possible means of addressing this passive support, even very close to here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	Maybe I can keep it close to home. This is, of course, broader about political movements, and I think this is also in the area of my colleague from the Interior and the Justice Department. Maybe I can pull it back to the school. I believe that attention should be paid to citizenship and the important values and rights that we know in a rule of law such as the Netherlands, is one of the things that schools in the Netherlands can do more work on. I do not want to fail schools that are already paying a great deal of attention to this, but this may happen more than is already the case. This includes freedom of expression, but also freedom of religion and equality between men and women, homosexuals and heterosexuals and so on. For me, these are very important principles which also call for maintenance and attention at school when it comes to our young generations who, as far as I am concerned, have to carry them with us and be allowed to carry them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	There is no excuse to scare children with ski masks, no matter what we think about setting up a school or teaching in a school. We are all entitled to condemn this. I therefore welcome what Mr Van Meenen has said about this. But this is not the first time: we have heard of Jewish schools that have also had to take additional security measures. Can the Secretary of State identify which schools are more likely to be targeted by these types and, together with those schools, see if additional security measures are needed? We really need to prevent adults from believing that they can intimidate children in a place that should just be safe for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	I agree with Mrs Westerveld that schools should be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	I have to interrupt you, because it is very restless in the Chamber and we are still working on oral Question Time. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Fortunately, I also note that the vast majority of schools are doing everything in their power to protect this safety so that risks such as these, which have occurred in this one school, do not actually exist. That's good, because as a parent, you want your kid to go to school nicely and you want to take it to school with peace of mind. Where there are specific indications, it is a very limited number of schools in the Netherlands, there is always good contact with the police and the appropriate measures to be taken. We also have the good use that we are reluctant in our public statements about the details of the measures, because these details only raise a lot of questions and can compromise the same security. So I wouldn't be for a big inventory or publicizing a whole list of schools. But you can count on that, where there are risks, the local authorities are up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs Westerveld, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	I know that there are all kinds of security protocols and that schools should have their own security plan, but of course we hear reports in the media more often and the number of violent crimes in schools is increasing. I don't know if it's related, but I think it's good to see if additional measures are needed in schools that can easily be targeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	Where there are concrete risks or where we really have concrete signals, there is often rapid action. That's what happened at this school. Some of the examples you mentioned, which I know very well, also join the school administration, the municipality and the police to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	I have a question for the Secretary of State. Does he agree with me that there is a logical sum of the actions of the State Secretary himself, in this case the municipality of Amsterdam and the criminally convicted Geert Wilders? The Secretary of State has always fought this school with his hand and his tooth. The umbrella organisation of Islamic schools has indicated that the municipality has created a polarising climate. Geert Wilders himself delivers the slogans of course. The slogan of these people with balaclavas, who scare children, is exactly the same slogan as the slogan Geert then tweets in the afternoon. Is this not a logical sum of the actions of yourself, of Mr Geert Wilders and of the congregation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	Let me be very brief about that: no. I also think this is a reprehensible suggestion. I am not talking about Mr Wilders' words, but on the basis of the best for children, I still have the best for them, because I have serious doubts about this school. I also asked the inspection to monitor this closely. If it is said that it makes sense, then you are suggesting that men with balaclavas are climbing into schools, I am not going to let that happen. I don't think that's a choice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	That brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
