ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue the debate on the European Summit of 19 and 20 October 2017. I welcome the Prime Minister, in box K this time, and give Mrs Leijten the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, as party leader and MP, you are in a certain position, and so you are back in box K. I hope we're dealing with the Prime Minister. While our country was in a long period of information, the turbo was turned on by the European Commission. The French President Macron also wants to move forward with full speed. President of the European Commission Juncker made it very clear to the State of the Union that he is talking about more countries in the European Union, everyone in the euro and, above all, less veto rights for the Member States. We are only getting plans that are about more EU and more transfer. There would be a year now to take substantial steps. Does our government share that jubilee? The highway to a federal state is being constructed and the speed is higher than 130 km/h. Does the Prime Minister also find it worrying that zero-point zero, but indeed zero-point zero, plans are being made against all these Eurofelt plans? What choice do our Heads of Government really have if it all comes from the European Commission or from Macron who only want to go one way with this European Union, namely to scale it up to a federal state? Would it not be good if there were Heads of Government who said: we are going to write down what our future looks like? Is this Prime Minister prepared to do so, perhaps together with colleagues who are also somewhat more Eurosceptic, which means that there really is a choice about the future of the European Union? The coalition agreement sets out the future of the European Union on one little A4. It's a bit vague. That was done deliberately, I understand, because in the long term the Netherlands can still agree to the federalist plans of Juncker and Macron. The coalition agreement also does not express itself on many issues, for example the social pillar: far-reaching transfer of competence to the European Union when it comes to issues of social affairs. And it is a hollowing out of the European Social Charter, which is actually being rendered ineffective, with the committee gaining more power. That will be decided in November. What is the position of the Dutch government? One of the main arguments of the SP to oppose European integration and the Treaty of Lisbon and to campaign hard in the referendum we had in 2005 was that we do not want European foreign and defence policy. Now there are proposals for permanent structured cooperation and a European defence fund. All elements that clearly go one way: European foreign policy and European military policy. It was denied in 2005, but now it is reality. We have seen it well: it has always been the bet. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the Netherlands will be put in an optimal position in order to be able to bow down to all plans rather than propose alternatives? Is he prepared to comment on the transfer of powers within the social pillar or defence union? I'd like to hear that today. The government agreement recognises that the European Union lays down rules in areas where Member States' own responsibility is unnecessarily restricted, such as housing. We call it a glimmer of light that it is on certain points, but there are perhaps even more areas where the Prime Minister thinks that the European Union is going too far when it comes to taking over Member States' own responsibilities. Today we have the debate with the Prime Minister, who, as leader of the VVD, has concluded a government agreement. So he's still the prime minister of an old cabinet. The new one isn't here yet, but we already know what the plans of the new cabinet are. It states that the Netherlands will participate in a European Public Prosecutor's Office. Let this new Chamber just a few months ago adopt a motion from my colleague Van Nispen which excluded the participation of the Netherlands in a European Public Prosecutor's Office. That was June. As far as we are concerned, it is really bizarre that the new government wants to transfer our criminal law to Brussels. But how does the Prime Minister stand up in Europe? Is he still Prime Minister of the old government, who has been commissioned by the Chamber, namely that we are against a European Public Prosecutor's Office, or is he setting himself up as Prime Minister of a coalition that has closed but is not yet in charge? I'd like a response. We are still talking about the future of the euro, but I am shocked that the coalition agreement is critical, but that we are voting in favour of an advisory body that is going to interfere with all budgets, including our budget. Mr. Chairman. It is also important for the European Union and the future of the European Union to separate the United Kingdom. We have just read that an impasse has been reached in the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. It's threatening to end up in a fight divorce, and that's really the least cheerful scenario. We've exchanged that before, before the summer. What is the Prime Minister's view of the possibility of facilitating consultations? No deal would harm the United Kingdom but certainly the European Union. Was it smart enough to cut the negotiations in two stages? If you're just talking about divorce and not the new relationship, then you run the risk that the hard divorce really ruined the new relationship and actually doesn't get there. I find it difficult that we do not know what the position of the European Union is because it does not publish position papers. For example, the requirements of the European Union to the United Kingdom are not clear. Now there is a kind of framing war in the media about who is most seriously engaged in the negotiations, but we cannot control the commitment of the European Union, also on behalf of our government. Finally. There's a lot of tension in Spain. Everyone is calling for dialogue, as we read in a letter from the government that we received this week. But this is held back by the Prime Minister of Spain. He has informed an official that he will take appropriate action in the event of a possible separation. But if these measures are as appropriate as those of the day of the referendum, in which more than 800 people were injured, then it cannot be tolerated, not even for the Dutch Government? Human Rights Watch finds that excessive violence has been used. Can the Prime Minister respond to that? We hear the army is ready to intervene if necessary. Does the Prime Minister agree with the SP that statements about the army have been prepared, do not exactly contribute to de-escalation in a tense situation? Is he prepared to talk to his Spanish colleague about the fact that Spain really needs to de-escalate now and, moreover, an independent investigation into the violent action on 1 October? As I said at Oral Question Time a week and a half ago, we can be good friends with Spain and a good friend would point out that civil rights must be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his appointment as a reformer of the new cabinet. I am looking forward to this debate, because it is actually the first time that we have debated in this Chamber with a member of the government, the intended Prime Minister, of whom we are not quite sure yet; it can always go wrong that he will also be in the next cabinet. I'll take that as a privilege. Moreover, as Mrs Leijten said, there is now a coalition agreement. So we can try to distil out a little more from the government agreement that the Netherlands wants to go to with the European Union, and what this Prime Minister, even if he is still formally outgoing when he talks to his colleagues in Brussels, will talk about, insofar as that is about the direction it should take with the EU. I hope that this debate will clarify that. Because, Madam President, this is really the time to make plans for the future. The President of the European Commission has set out his ideas on the EU in his State of the Union. The French president did. The Prime Minister of Portugal recently did so. Our Prime Minister has not been able to say much about this so far, because he was a missionary, but that will soon be a thing of the past. In the annotated agenda we received for the European summit, we can read a little more about the direction the Netherlands wants to take, but I think it is still very vague on a number of points. I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to clarify his response a little later. Macron, for example, I read in the annotation, has given an important impetus to the debate on the future of the European Union. The cabinet shares his analysis. At least on a number of points, the cabinet shares its analysis. But we do not yet read or hear anything about the concrete proposals that Macron has made, because they are not formally on the agenda, says the cabinet. That may be formally correct, but of course it doesn't add up. It will undoubtedly be discussed. As was also mentioned recently at the informal summit in Tallinn about the plans for the future, this will undoubtedly happen next week. The Prime Minister knows that much better than I do. That is why it is important that we hear more about this this afternoon and also seize the opportunity to give further suggestions to the Prime Minister. I'd be happy to. From the paragraph on Europe in the coalition agreement, there is one specific paragraph which deals with Europe, which is mainly about money, and I am already getting a little bit wiser. In fact, I read it that way, but I wonder if I have understood correctly, that all countries themselves are responsible for a balanced budget and for sound public finances, each for themselves. If this is not the case, if there is no balanced budget or sound public finances, then you have to solve your own problem. During the euro crisis, we have seen that this kind of isolation cannot be sustained. Money had to and went to Greece. We also saw where the emphasis on strict budgetary policies led: a hard clean-up, extremely high unemployment, especially among young people in southern European countries, the rise of political extremism and growing dislike of the European project. That is why a social Europe is so important. It is good, and I read that in the government agreement, that the Posting of Workers Directive is being revised and that equal pay in equal work is the starting point. But should we not recognise that the degree of interdependence within the European Union is now so great that we cannot be satisfied with each other's own budgetary and budgetary responsibilities and to continue to draw attention to them? Should we not recognise that our surpluses and our lagging wage developments, for example, cause problems elsewhere in the European Union? How are we going to tackle the divergence within the European Union, which is still going on and which is a time bomb under the future of the Union? How can we strengthen unity within that Union? I do not read about this in the coalition agreement. Unfortunately, I am seeing the austerity union again, without paying attention to the causes of instability in the euro area. Not only countries in financial difficulties are responsible for this stability, but also countries that want to compete away from other countries. Not only public finances must be healthy, but unemployment must also be contained. Not only do we have to measure each other, but we also have to organise a form of solidarity. Why does the Prime Minister refuse to take that lesson from the euro crisis? A few words about the Brexit. The Brexit isn't gonna do any good. It's bad. There is not yet any question of efficient progress. This will undoubtedly be reported by Mr Barnier next week, but where the Brexit itself is not progressing, we are already fighting for the legacy of Brexit. The Netherlands continues to offer under the new, future cabinet. For example, in times of Brexit we bring more companies to the Netherlands, according to the group chairman of the VVD only a few hours ago here behind this same chair. For multinationals, banks and mailbox companies, the Netherlands is becoming even cheaper. Profit tax goes to 21%, the lowest rate in Europe! The dividend tax is abolished. What are the consequences of such a tax struggle on euro-area countries that have been in trouble before? What would the Prime Minister recommend to his colleagues in Portugal, Spain and Italy? To do the same thing as the Netherlands, to go under something? Is the new cabinet, I ask the Prime Minister, open to European agreements to limit this race to the bottom? Mr President, I will conclude. During the previous debates on the European Summit, I believe that it was in June, I had a motion for a resolution. I imagine the Prime Minister doesn't quite remember it, because a lot has happened since then. In that motion I asked the cabinet to map out how the various scenarios developed by the Commission, etc., relate to the Dutch interests, views and views, and to inform the Chamber about them. The Prime Minister has promised: I am going to do that; you will be able to hold that motion for a moment. Or "retreat," he even said, and I did. We are now a few months away. We almost have a cabinet. The debate in Europe continues. When is the Prime Minister going to honour the promise he made to me in June? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. No, Mr. Van Ojik. You're gonna have to keep moving. You're not allowed to be in box K when the meeting's in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Van Ojik leaned towards trade-K with GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day in this plenary. This morning there was talk about the report of the informant and the formation of Rutte III. This afternoon, therefore, for the last time, we are talking to the Prime Minister about the deployment of the Rutte II cabinet, and with it the commitment of the Netherlands at next week's European summit. I shall begin with one of the issues that is not on the agenda, but which deserves priority and which has been given a great deal of attention by the Chamber, also just now by my colleagues from the SP and GroenLinks. That is the referendum in Catalonia and all the violence and unrest that ensued from it. Last week, during oral Question Time, several political groups asked questions about this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He rightly stated in that debate that rubber bullets do not match with voting booths. However, he felt it was too early, he said, to formally condemn this unacceptable violence. However, he supported the position of the UN Human Rights Commissioner that an independent investigation of this violence is needed first. In the meantime, has the Netherlands, and I ask the Prime Minister, urged the Spanish authorities to carry out such an independent investigation? If not, is the Prime Minister still prepared to do so and the margin of next week's European summit? Is he also prepared to advocate European mediation, provided that both sides are open to it? I do not think that is the case at the moment. The latest state of affairs is now quite unclear. Maybe the Prime Minister can say something about that, too. I'd like a response. I will continue with the issue of migration, which is high on the agenda of next week's summit. In recent months, French President Macron and Commission President Juncker have made fine speeches, and Mrs Leijten has also spoken about these speeches, I believe, about a fully-fledged European asylum system. In any case, my group has always been committed to this in recent years. It is, of course, disappointing that the negotiations on the reform of European asylum policy are not making sufficient progress. Is the Prime Minister prepared to press for early treatment by the Member States so that a breakthrough can finally be made in this European asylum system? I'd like a response. The Heads of Government will also discuss the progress of EU-Turkey agreements. At the beginning of this month, a critical report was issued by the Refugee Werk Foundation and the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. This shows that asylum seekers who are sent back from Greece to Turkey are randomly placed in detention. Those are very disturbing noises. Can the Prime Minister respond to this investigation and also indicate what steps are to be taken? And will the Prime Minister also produce this report at the European Summit? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u7	Before you continue, Mr Van Ojik has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think it is very good that Mr Verhoeven is asking critical questions about the Turkey deal to the Prime Minister. But we've just been referring to the coalition agreement. Of course, it proposes that even more Turkey deals should not be called Turkey deals with other countries. Wouldn't it be a good idea to use that as a pass when we see how badly the Turkey deal actually works in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u9	In any case, I wonder how sensible it is to talk about the European part of the coalition agreement now. I think it is always wise to see how current deals and agreements work out and on that basis to determine what you will or will not do in the future. My group, too, has always said that we found the agreements with Turkey particularly questionable because they were improperly linked to the agreements on membership and visa liberalisation. In fact, I think I remember the Prime Minister saying once that he knew afterwards that this link was wrong. We have always said that we thought that was a strange link. But we have always said that it is a very logical choice to give extra money to countries where a lot of refugees are being received. This choice can therefore be made with other countries in the future. But it seems to me to be a very sensible suggestion from Mr Van Ojik to learn from what is happening in the case of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u10	You are in doubt, I see, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u11	That was such a satisfying answer that you're actually inclined to leave it at that, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u12	Yes, I can see it from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u13	I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven very much for this very satisfactory answer, but not really. Of course every deal is specific again and you may object to the demands of the other side that are met. But the essence is that you send people back to countries where you often cannot guarantee security very well. That is what Mr Verhoeven's questions were about. And let's be honest: that risk also arises when you start making deals with other countries. Hence my question to Mr Verhoeven. He says: I don't think it's wise to discuss that here. I think so, because next week it will be on the agenda of the European summit. We know what the new cabinet's commitment is, namely more of these deals. I would therefore ask Mr Verhoeven: would it not be wise to take a step in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u14	I am happy to discuss this here, but I believe that there will be a number of further debates in which there will be a great deal of discussion about its content. This debate is formally planned because of the European summit. It is about the commitment of the Netherlands to that European summit and not so much about the coalition agreement. I just wanted to say that. But I take Mr Van Ojik's question very seriously, of course. In the end, the coalition agreement makes it very clear that all treaties must always be complied with. I think that's a very important one. It also states that there must always be control over all countries with whom you make agreements. That is also true in the case of Turkey. We will always be critical of this. The same applies to deals with other countries. If you make agreements, they must of course meet a number of requirements, and they must always be checked. This is precisely why research by independent organisations such as Refugee Work, universities and human rights organisations is very important. As far as D66 is concerned, we will always listen to that and continue to ask the government what that is about. I'm sure you can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u15	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u16	The Prime Minister also participated in the digital summit in Tallinn. That is very nice and very important. Digitisation is, of course, one of the challenges of our time, also a cross-border challenge. It is very good that Europe is talking about this more and more often. The government must also have a clear vision of this. A vision is, of course, very entrusted to our Prime Minister. The old Prime Minister often had less vision than the future Prime Minister, I have the idea. But trust in the future also requires real vision, and the summit report is only a little lean. That's why I have a few questions. Does the Prime Minister see the importance of digitisation for our economy and the important role it has for our digital mainport, for example? This really is a crucial advantage for the Netherlands in Europe. And can the Prime Minister indicate what developments in the field of digitisation he highlighted at that summit? Does the Prime Minister also see the growing importance of cybersecurity as we digitize and connect more and more parts of our homes, our cars, our factories, our businesses and our vital infrastructure to the Internet? Does he see, for example, in the light of this, the tension that may exist between cybersecurity and search interests? A good example of this is encryption, the encryption of our data. I often talk about this with the Minister of Security and Justice. Can I assume that the Prime Minister is defending the good Dutch position on maintaining strong encryption, so without weakening, without backdoors, for our society vis-à-vis his colleagues who are more inclined to say: let us build some backdoors in the encryption, so that we can get in with our services, which, of course, is very dangerous for the security of our Internet? Please respond to these questions. Then I move on to European defence cooperation. My group supports the conclusion of the last European Council that there should be ambitious and inclusive cooperation in the field of defence in Europe. This is something that is highlighted in the coalition agreement, as is the possibility of forming a climate-cop group in the coalition agreement. Those are all wonderful steps. It is precisely on these major cross-border issues that you see that this cabinet says: let us work together to solve the problems of citizens. Let us choose a Europe that tackles the major themes of our time, but let us also be a Europe that does not interfere with everything. I think that is a very nice and clear commitment. It is a pity that Mrs Leijten has now left, because she was talking about a Europe that was going to get involved in everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mrs. Leijten is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u18	...and that was a train that pierced. I didn't know what I heard. I see, on the contrary, a very functional and effective Europe that also has a certain austerity, where necessary. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u19	Not aside, Mrs Leijten would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u20	When Mr Verhoeven can drive full on his highway, with 130 km/h, 140 km/h to the federal union, he will always do so. I was just looking up something, because I'm so worried about, for example, what's coming in the social pillar. We have always said that social policy is national policy, that is what the Member States themselves are about. We can fight here ourselves how we shape our collective agreements and our trade unions. But now the social pillar has arrived, which will be adopted in November. If it is adopted, the social pillar will be leading and it will be above the European Social Charter. And that's quite a big step. This means that we are no longer talking about it as Member States, but that Brussels, the European Commission, is taking over the direction. Does Mr Verhoeven really think that this is so desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u21	I must confess that I really do not know what you mean by the'social pillar' and the explanation that the European Commission would then be dealing with wage agreements in the Netherlands. 'Cause that's how you bring it now. If that is the case, then I would like an explanation, because that is not how I see it. Social policy can indeed be European and, as I say to Mrs Leijten, is often important in other areas. An example are Dutch workers who say they are losing their jobs because there are other people from other countries who are going to work at lower rates. On the contrary, there are some very good things in the coalition agreement. That is also what the revision of the Detaching Directive is very important for. So I think it can certainly be social if Europe makes social policy, but that is really meant to pay the same wage to all those who do the same work in the same place in Europe. I think that's something this whole room is for. In my opinion, that is a point which has been a great deal of concern to the PvdA in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u22	This is a diversion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u23	No, I really don't, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u24	This is a diversion. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven simply does not know what is happening; he can. But I'm just gonna take a look at that last one. We first had the free movement of workers that we didn't want here. There would be 70,000 people and it would be 300,000 people. That's what we're fighting back a little bit now, so we're going to go about it ourselves a little bit, so those people are being treated properly or maybe sectors can be excluded. For example, Cameron had fought for his referendum, which finally became the Brexit. But that is fighting back on the European Union. What will happen to the Social Pillar Council in November? There it is agreed that the social pillar, written by the European Commission, will lead over the European Social Charter. This means a huge transfer of powers that we are now discussing ourselves, to the European Commission. None of this is as rosy as Mr Verhoeven suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u25	No, I'm not saying that's rosy. I honestly say to Mrs Leijten that I do not know exactly what powers are being transferred and what consequences this has. It merely says that something is being led by the Social Charter and that it has certain consequences, but it has not yet made one concrete consequence. If you say that this means that the collective bargaining partners in the Netherlands will no longer meet wages, you have a concrete example. I do not hear a concrete example and therefore cannot respond to it. I'm very willing to take a serious look at this. I'm just not sure what you mean by this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u26	Finally, Mrs Leijten's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u27	So I thought, at least let me go into...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u28	I am really shocked because Mr Verhoeven does not know what I mean by the plans for the social pillar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u29	At least I'm honest about that, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u30	Don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u31	At least that's good. That's new politics, as I've heard people say a lot lately. I'm just not sure what you mean. I ask you to make that concrete. You don't do that, and then you're out of your mind. Well, then I'm shocked because you don't. Well, then we're both pissed off, but that's not gonna do us any good. This isn't gonna get us anywhere. If you have any specific questions to me about this at the moment, I would like to come back to them, but I do not understand what you mean by 'the social pillar' in relation to the Social Charter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u32	That's what you said. The last point on this point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u33	I am very surprised because five positions have emerged from the European Commission: one on the euro, one on the financial framework of the European Union, one on social policy, the social pillar, one on defence and one on globalisation. The Social Pillar will be discussed at a summit next month, where it will be adopted and where a huge transfer of powers will take place from the Member States to the European Commission. Where the European Social Charter would still offer citizens all kinds of opportunities to submit legal disputes, disputes and disputes, it will not be possible to do so, because there is no longer any policy on the part of the Member States. Let me give you a few concrete examples in the second term. It is very strange that almost the largest wheelbarrow carrier for a federal Europe does not know exactly what this proposal is about, because this is where a bunch of powers are transferred. That is what Mr Verhoeven should be pleased about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u34	Well, that's up to Mr Verhoeven. I have still not heard any concrete examples from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mrs Leijten will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm eagerly waiting for that. I almost get the feeling that she herself cannot mention those concrete examples either. If she hadn't, she'd have done it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u37	You're always drawing her out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, that's not wise, but it's mutual, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yes, Mrs Leijten must now respond again to that last remark of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u40	We have all seen the social pillar. One of the proposals in that is paternity leave, and I know how long. You have just agreed in a coalition agreement that it is six weeks, on your own account. But it's okay. That is what the European Union is about to impose on us. That all comes to us in regulations. That is the social pillar, and there are many other things under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u41	Well, I like that example. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u43	Another worrying point on the agenda is the situation in Turkey. Oh, wait, I have to finish. I believe that in defence and the ambitious and serious criteria for participation in cooperation, I was crucial for the changing world. Can the Prime Minister provide an insight into the European force field in the Council's proposal on enhanced defence cooperation? Then Turkey. President Erdogan is again in the process of condemning journalists and locking up human rights activists. Turkey has been moving away from the European community of values for some time now. That is, of course, a poor development. I read in the annotated agenda that the Netherlands has asked the Commission to analyse these negative developments in the light of the Copenhagen criteria, the accession criteria. Can the Prime Minister forward this analysis to the Chamber in writing? Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Netherlands is calling for the suspension of pre-accession fees. Does the Prime Minister see opportunities to obtain more support from other Member States? Can some of these resources be allocated to civil society organisations, which are under such pressure? Can the Prime Minister confirm that the accession talks with Turkey, which we have just discussed, are still in fact still at a standstill and that no opening is being considered? I'd like a response. Finally, the Brexit. Theresa May's long-awaited speech turned out to be a disappointment. Instead of a breakthrough, it was mainly an increase in the uncertainties that were already there. What 'deep and special relations' between the United Kingdom and the European Union has in mind, Prime Minister May, is simply vague; that is not clear. It's more unclear than becoming clearer. Unfortunately, I would add, because I sometimes hear narrowing noises from a number of people in different countries in Europe saying: those British are having a hard time, you see, hahaha. But it is of course very bad for the Netherlands if no good, clear agreements can be made with Britain. That's bad for our business. I therefore hope that we will not now have some kind of pleasure in the difficulties on the part of the United Kingdom. I would prefer our Prime Minister to try to contribute to this in my view, too, in his contacts with the United Kingdom, to make the best possible and clear business agreement on the future relationship with the United Kingdom. Prime Minister May wants a transition period. I get that. But a transition without a final goal is of course not meaningful. How does the Minister look at that point? The points on which Mrs May was crystal clear in her speech, namely the rights of Union citizens and the proper payment of the estate separation account, unfortunately came back to the negotiating table a lot less clearly. All in all, it is becoming increasingly clear that insufficient progress is being made. This is also stated by the European Union's chief negotiator Barnier. What will be the EU-27's strategy to put pressure on British negotiators? What needs to be done to make them realize that matters need to be dealt with before we can talk about the new relationship? Certainly all these Union citizens in the United Kingdom deserve clarification now, especially as there is increasing speculation about a "no deal" scenario, where nothing is regulated in terms of the rights of Union citizens. 3.3 EU citizens and 1.5 million British people will be in the cold, in uncertainty about their future rights and obligations. In any case, these rights must be regulated, whether there is a deal or not. As far as my group is concerned, citizens' rights must also be guaranteed in the case of a 'no deal'. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to that last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Thank God we're leaving." That's how it sounded from the Brexiteers' benches when Juncker pronounced his State of the Union. That speech was bombastic and monstrous. Juncker went full on the organ. Mr Juncker's EU has, among other things, a European Minister for Finance, a European army, an enlarged Schengen area, more Member States and a mandatory introduction of the euro. This year the Eurofelt drum roll came not only from the Junckers and Verhofstadts. Nor was the French President unmistakable. Macron had already warmed up the Brussels elite by showing himself to the French people moving on the sounds of the European anthem and surrounded by flapping EU flags. The elite hung on his lips during the hours of speech. Macron and Juncker live in the same universe. The President of France and the President of the European Commission have the same objective: more European Union and less sovereignty. 80% of Macron's proposals correspond to proposals that the European Commission has already made or will come up with. Two powerful men with the same vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u46	I find it funny that Mrs Maeijer says: the elite hung on his lips. As far as I know, Macron won the elections in France. So he's got a majority of the voters behind him. It's not just the French elite, I suppose, who liked those European flags?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u47	No, he certainly received the mandate from the French electorate. But I am consciously talking about the European elite who was rather warmed up by his display of EU flags and the EU folk song and was looking forward to Macron's long-awaited speech on his European plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u48	No, I'm sure. Maybe I misunderstood, but I wanted to take away the impression that Macron's project is an elite project. Because he wouldn't have won the election. Maybe the PVV girlfriend won, but she didn't. He lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u49	Then perhaps I should remind Mr Van Ojik that Mrs Marine Le Pen, what he is talking about, has done very well in the French elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u50	Yes, and isn't Mrs Maeijer also right that the French electoral system, with the two-round system, has been developed to give presidents a relatively large majority in parliament when they actually have a much smaller majority among the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u51	The word "like" did appeal to me in the sense that "Mrs. Maeijer is not right too." I must say that I have not been very interested in the French electoral system. I have concentrated on President Macron's europhile speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u52	This remark was intended to support Mrs Maeijer, I understand. Proceed, Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The speeches by Juncker and Macron must have been a confirmation of their desire to free themselves from the European Union for many Brexiters. That desire is being put to the test, because... Sorry, I think I'm skipping a page. I will return to this passage in a moment. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, I have already expressed my concerns about the ease, the drifting away and the vagueness of far-reaching proposals which further limit Dutch sovereignty, identity and freedom. I am doing that again here, because the Prime Minister says about the extension of the Schengen area: not now. About a European Minister for Finance, the VVD says: do not wipe off the table immediately. Of course, proposals of this kind never disappear from the table. They only go into the fridge for a little while, to pop up later. It's always "more, more, more" that beats the clock. The new cabinet also wants to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, to combat fraud involving EU money. The same ministry has hardly been set up and there is already talk of extending the mandate to investigate and prosecute terrorism and organised crime. Of course, that has always been the aim of Brussels. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he is also in favour of this. In response to the State of the Union, the Prime Minister in general, and in particular to Mr Juncker, advised to seek a doctor if he had visions again. My suggestion would be that they go together so that the Prime Minister might have his blinkers removed. The speeches by Juncker and Macron must have been a confirmation of their desire to free themselves from the European Union for many Brexiters. That desire is being put to the test, because the Brussels elite has a bad reputation for following the results of democratic referendums. Think of the referenda on the European Constitution and the referendum on the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. As the Brexit negotiations last longer, many people increasingly get the feeling of smoke curtains, power games, settling bills and double agendas. The façade of unity behind which Brussels is hiding is starting to burst, because not everyone seems to like the Brussels poker game, where it seems to be mainly about money, power and ego. The Danish Finance Minister expressed his frustration at the process this week. At the forthcoming European summit, the Heads of State or Government decide whether they consider that there is sufficient progress in the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement. The definition of "sufficient progress" is completely unclear to me. I would like to get some clarity from the Prime Minister on this. Will the British commitment ever be sufficient for the Brussels wolves? What has become clear is that this cabinet is blind sailing on the advice of chief negotiator Barnier. This means that one man determines whether there is sufficient progress in the process, whatever that may be, a man with European political aspirations. You may wonder what importance it serves. The Netherlands benefits from the best possible relationship with its British friends; now, in the negotiations on exit, but certainly also in the future. So let us not put our fate in the hands of Brussels. With a loyal ally who wants to leave the club, Brussels is arguing about money. Erdogan, on the other hand, still fills his pockets with our taxpayers' money through that same Brussels. When is this cabinet finally gonna move on? Pass on the message in Brussels that Turkey can never join the European Union. And withdraw that candidacy officially. Stop the payments of the pre-accession fees and demand our money back. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u54	The PVV is all about the European Union: nothing is good about it. We happen to have the largest port in Europe in the Netherlands, Rotterdam. It benefits greatly from our EU membership. 90,000 jobs are involved in the port of Rotterdam. The PVV participates in the municipal elections in Rotterdam, as I have heard. Are you also going to tell us that your position on the EU is putting 90,000 jobs at risk in Rotterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u55	I'm certainly not gonna tell you that, Mr. Mulder. As you know, the PVV is advocating exit from the European Union. Two years ago, if I recall correctly, we had a very nice report produced, the so-called "nexit report'. This results in economic growth, GDP growth and more money in the wallet. You're completely ignoring it, Mr. Mulder, but may I point out that a nexit and a Brexit are about much more than economics? In addition to being the economical one on our side with our next report, you can find what you want, but that report is going to be a nexit about much more. It's about regaining freedom, identity and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u56	It's a long story from the PVV, but the first sentence was: I'm not gonna tell you that. I would tell you and just be honest with the Rotterdamers about what the PVV policy means to their city.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u57	Of course we are honest with the Rotterdammers. I'm not gonna tell you because it just doesn't make sense. What the VVD might be able to tell its own voters is that it often shows a very eurosceptic sound here, but does something quite different in Brussels. I also heard Mr Mulder speak for a European Minister for Finance last week. That is quite different from what he said before the recess. So I would like Mr Mulder to give us an honest sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u58	Proceed, Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr President, thank you. Last year alone, the Member States resettled or granted asylum to more than 700,000 refugees, three times as much as the United States, Canada and Australia combined. Europe is not and should never be a fortified castle, according to Mr Juncker. Brussels is therefore busy replacing the illegal flow of migration with a legal one. Closing the borders has never been the goal. From now on, 50,000 migrants should be taken from the other side of the world towards the European Union. My question is therefore: does the new cabinet intend to participate in this? I understand you're still studying on that. And how will the cabinet prevent all those migrants admitted by countries like France and Germany from coming to the Netherlands? Is it true that the draft Council conclusions, which I stumbled across on Twitter today, include the passage that all possible means of exchange are being used to prevent illegal migration, such as the granting of visas? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The European Union always pretends to be a community of values. Last week, it has become clear once again that it is mainly about double values and double standards, because an internal matter has never stopped Brussels from interfering. The European Union does not seem to have any difficulty in condemning democratic countries if they do not submit to the Brussels dictatorships. In the case of 900 injured people who wanted to cast their vote in Catalonia, by the Spanish police it remained deafeningly silent for days. This silence was followed by Commissioner Timmermans' statement that proportional violence is sometimes justified in order to uphold the rule of law. Please respond to this statement. Mr President, I will conclude. It typifies the European Union in 2017. Residents must not be protected from mass immigration, but violence against their own inhabitants must be. Enough reason for the Netherlands to leave the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Rutte, Prime Minister of Rutte II, on his appointment as a formattor. We are having a curious debate here this afternoon. Formally, we are talking to the Prime Minister of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Will the Prime Minister bring in the positions of the formal VVD/Party of the Labour Coalition next week? Or does he give his colleagues a glimpse of the plans of the new cabinet? I'm sure they'll expect that from him. After all, governance is forward-looking, especially in a European context. And abroad, time doesn't stand still. That brings us to one of the agenda items at the summit, the future. We do not find them in the coalition agreement, and we call on the Prime Minister to do so immediately. I expect no formal objection from him, because the Prime Minister will not be able to send his colleagues in next week either. It's been long enough. In the coalition agreement we lack a clear vision of the future of Europe. That's what happens when D66 and the Christian Union get together on the accelerator and on the brake pedal. A lot of text on financial and monetary policy, in which we can largely agree, but not a trace of a vision of the future of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u62	I just heard Mr Van Rooijen say that there is no clear vision of the future of Europe in the coalition agreement. Europe is a continent, an area that is pretty much where we live, and then there are some countries. He means "European Union." I would therefore ask him to speak about this too and not to confuse Europe, the continent, with the EU Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u63	I think it is understandable, but we are discussing the Euro Summit with the Prime Minister today, and that summit is only about the European Union. So I did not talk about Europe in the literal sense. You could derive that from it, but we are talking about Europe in the limited sense of the European Union, of course. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u64	In what sense is Europe a limited form of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u65	No, Europe is not a limited form of it. Now we need to get the map, which you just did. I thought for a moment that you equated the Netherlands with Greater Europe, but that aside. Europe is, of course, larger than the European Union and, as far as we are concerned, the European Union remains as it is today for the time being. So smaller than all of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u66	It's just not an answer to my question. Mr Van Rooijen says: I am talking about the European Union and I am using the word Europe. We are not free to change the Dutch language in this house as much as we want? We're not Humpty Dumpty. We cannot say: if I use a word, that means exactly what I want it to mean. No, words have a certain meaning. Europe is a continent; it is a geographical indication and has nothing to do with an organisational indication that we call "EU." So again the request to speak about the EU instead of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u67	I said what I said, and I mean, of course, 'Europe in the sense of the European Union'. Mr. Chairman. I said that there is no sign of a vision of the future of the European Union, and that is why, in view of the recent statements made by President Juncker and President Macron of France. That must be discussed at least next week, as I ask the Prime Minister. Juncker and Macron. I agree with Mr Van Ojik's question on the rate of corporation tax, the race to the bottom. Shouldn't we start thinking about some sort of minimum rate? I'm gonna leave that question with the Prime Minister anyway. So I would like a response to the statements of Juncker and Macron. What is the Prime Minister going to bring to the summit next week? I think that is an inevitable subject. Does he agree with us that, given the current dynamics within the Union, there is no need for enlargement for the time being? Does he also agree with us that there is no reason at present for Bulgaria and Romania to join the Schengen area? I'm coming to Turkey. Next week, relations with Turkey will be on the agenda again. We wholeheartedly support the government's intention to reaffirm its call for the suspension of pre-accession aid. We also support the view that any negotiations on the modernisation of the customs union will depend on improving the rule of law in Turkey. What does the Prime Minister mean, as we read in the coalition agreement, by an alternative form of cooperation? I now come to the European Union in relation to the Brexit. At two o'clock this afternoon, we had another debate in the Chamber, Barnier, has announced that the Brexit negotiations have reached an impasse. As he said, he cannot therefore propose to the leaders of the 27 EU countries to start the second phase of the negotiations. Financial settlement is the stumbling block. Can the Prime Minister respond to these statements, which are hot off the needle? What, in his opinion, could be the consequences of this impasse? I have read the English text of Mr Barnier and the Dutch text of Mr Barnier. In this he talks not only about an impasse but also about a financial 'deadlock' and a 'disturbance standstill'. It is clear, according to the reactions I see and read, that the preparation for a divorce without a chord is getting closer rather than farther. In this context, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister if he would respond to the economists of the Rabobank, who predict disastrous consequences for the Netherlands in a hard Brexit. For example, they predict a 4% decrease in the national product, while last year's Plan Bureau estimated this at 2%. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to Spain. Recent events in Spain have caused a great deal of unrest. Luckily, the moods seem a little calm. In the letter we received yesterday from Minister Koenders, he said that the government currently sees no role for the European Union, because the Spanish authorities have not both asked for it. It is an internal matter, but such great tensions in one of the Member States cannot remain undisputed within the European Union. That should be discussed next week anyway. I noticed a remark from Prime Minister Rajoy yesterday. He said he was prepared to engage in a dialogue. I will see if the Prime Minister has also become one, provided it is not about independence. Is that perhaps an opening to sit down at the table and see what broadening of the rights of the province of Catalonia is possible without talking about that big bridge? Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is a question of migration. We agree with the cabinet that it is too early to speak of a structural decline. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we must work hard to reform the common European asylum system. Does the Minister expect an early agreement to be reached on this? How does the migration paragraph in the coalition agreement relate to the European Union's plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA. I see Mr Rutte and Mr Van Rooijen talking to each other. I would ask you not to talk to each other during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. I start today at the end, at least as far as British EU membership is concerned. Those who thought the Brexit would bring the United Kingdom betterness and prosperity appear to have been cheated in practice. The Bank of England is very pessimistic about the short-term prospects of the British economy. According to the governor of the British central bank, the Brexit investment will be so much behind, that monetary policy cannot do anything to increase the level of prosperity anymore. This morning, it was already mentioned for a while, the Rabobank announced that the Dutch economy is much more hit by the Brexit than previously thought. Meanwhile, we heard Prime Minister May say this week that she does not know what is going to happen to EU citizens in the UK and that she cannot guarantee that British nationals in other EU countries have nothing to worry about. It is clear that after four rounds of negotiations there is still little progress. In fact, Chief Negotiator Barnier says today that the talks are blocked and that he advises the European Council not to move on to the next stage. We would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to this ruling. Whatever happens, Britain's departure from the Union marks a new era for the European Union. I am talking about a Union that is more than market and currency, in which collective prosperity transcends individual wealth, in which cooperation gains from the exercise of power and in which the future of our children is more important than a banker's bonus or a bottomline. It is a Union of values that seeks the balance between the freedoms it creates and the protection it offers. And that's not utopia, it's a tough necessity, because there's still plenty of work to be done. From unrest at the eastern border of Europe to the ongoing refugee crisis, from trafficking in women to truck drivers living in their cabins for months, from populism and intolerance to the testosterone policies of Trump and Kim Jong-un, all these cross-border problems call for a European solution. Not a technocratic concept on neoliberal grounds, but a real solution that restores hope to people, a solution that tackles problems and puts the citizens of the Union at the centre. A solution, in short, that sticks. And we, the Netherlands, cannot do that alone. The refugee crisis is such a challenge that we can only solve together. This means jointly investing in training, in work and in a future perspective for the poorest countries. And that also means solidarity for each other when it comes to care. We would therefore like to hear how the Prime Minister is going to implement the concept of solidarity, a fundamental value of the Union. We hope that the Africa Summit on 29 and 30 November will be used to discuss the common challenges in the area of migration and the follow-up of previous agreements. What is the government's commitment to preparing for this summit? I would also like to hear whether and how the Prime Minister is going to discuss the problems surrounding the European agreements on the resettlement of refugees with his European colleagues. In addition, the conditions for receiving refugees in Libya remain a major concern, in particular the situation of women and children. It is important that the EU works on improvements to ensure their safety. But also closer to home, including in Greece, the situation of many refugees is appalling. Can the Prime Minister indicate what can be done at European level to improve the humanitarian situation, in particular as regards the safety of children and women and access to education and health care? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the situation in Turkey. We still have serious concerns about the deterioration of the human rights situation, the rule of law and the state of wider relations between Turkey and Europe. Despite all the concerns and developments in Turkey, we continue to stress the importance of a diplomatic path with Turkey, precisely to discuss these problems. But Turkey is more than just that president. What signal does the European Council intend to send to the Turkish people? And, if pre-accession funds are suspended, will we increase EU funding for human rights in Turkey? We also wonder whether there is, in the end, a limit to be crossed before the accession negotiations are formally suspended. According to the European Parliament, this limit is unchanged in the implementation of the new constitution. How's the Prime Minister looking at this? Then there is the issue of European defence cooperation, the so-called PESCO. The Netherlands has already demonstrated international defence cooperation with a number of other Member States, including Germany, Belgium, Norway and Luxembourg. We are therefore curious whether and, if so, how the Prime Minister intends to share this experience in the European Council and whether he agrees with us that the Netherlands can play a leading role in this. Next, the European Defence Fund, which focuses on the capacity deficits identified jointly in the EU and NATO contexts, is the European Defence Fund. The PvdA Group is keen to see the programme also support innovative SMEs and promote cross-border market access for SMEs in the European supply chains. EDF must be there not only for large companies, but also for our biggest employer of all: SMEs. Does the Prime Minister share this view? On September 29th there was the digital summit. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the cabinet will do with the results of this summit. The Netherlands is not yet Estonia, but what can we learn from countries with a large digital gap? And minists so important: how do we ensure that digitalisation works for everyone and does not cause new division? Finally, Mr President, the situation in Catalonia. I mentioned it earlier, but here too there is testosterone policy, of muscle-talk over and over again: the continuation of a referendum that has been declared unconstitutional by the judge, followed by brutal police action against mostly peaceful citizens. Whatever you think of the referendum, violence is never a solution as far as we are concerned. In the meantime, and again today, a large part of the population in both Catalonia and the rest of Spain called for dialogue. Does the Prime Minister see room for discussing the situation in Spain at the European summit? If it is possible, then, without so-called jokes about women, whether or not they are attractive, such as this morning's debate on the formation of women.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u70	I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past month, we have had different views on the future of Europe. Commission President Juncker wants to expand the European Union further. The French President Macron wants to go even further, with a common financial and economic policy. He also wants a European Minister for Finance. We would like France to comply first of all with its own financial commitments when it comes to Europe. President Macron also wants a European intervention force with its own budget. The agenda of the European summit includes the Defence Fund. That starts modestly, but by 2020 it will reach a billion. If this were to come from our own budget, it would be up to now, but we know from the documents that Member States will also have to pay their own contribution. The Christian Union wonders whether this is so good for the Netherlands. Can the relatively small Dutch defence industry actually take sufficient advantage of this? That's how I ask the Prime Minister. Are no irreversible steps being taken in this way towards a European defence industry and defence force? In other words, perhaps to quote the SP, are we not being messed up in a European army? It is not just about research, but also about joint purchases. That is the third pillar, as we understand. The European Council will discuss PESCO, a permanent European structure for military cooperation. The Netherlands intends to participate in this. The Council intends to establish this structure before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u72	I know this idea of the Christian Union, of Mr Voordewind, not to want to put their own money into that European Defence Fund. Suppose that means you can do a lot more for our safety and for our defense. It is often said that this is the advantage. Is the Christian Union against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u73	Of course, that depends entirely on how this is going to develop. We are also expected to put a certain percentage into that fund. You could say: if the Dutch military industry can actually participate in this, then you still have to see if you can get the amount you put in, out again, of employment. In the field of research and development, you could see that; you have to evaluate that. But with the joint purchases, the third leg of the Defence Fund, one wonders at some point whether, in addition to the pooling we are already doing, we will soon transfer our spending budgets from the Netherlands to a Defence Fund and then have to wait and see what weapons Europe intends to buy for that. Can we then set our own priorities in this? Is the Dutch Parliament still on this issue? Those are the critical questions I do have at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u74	We are dealing with the latter ourselves: we control the government and therefore also the Minister of Defence. It seems, but perhaps I misunderstand Mr Voordewind that we are doing our defence expenditure to support the Dutch defence industry. We are doing defence spending in order to be safer, and if we can do that by using less money through such a European Defence Fund, I can assume that the Christian Union is in favour of that too. Even if the Dutch defence industry could benefit less from that. It's not the purpose of defense spending to get your defense industry off the ground, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u75	You would think so, but that is not the case in Europe. If the larger countries put large sums of money into the Defence Fund, these larger countries will certainly start to wonder whether their own Member State, their own industry, can benefit from this. The question that Mr Van Ojik is asking is whether we are all getting better and whether it makes sense to carry out joint research. It seems to me to be a good idea to do joint research. The question is whether we should do that by first pumping money into a pot and then redistributing it. You can also do joint research at the moment. You can just meet up with each other. We do not have to pump money into Brussels first, as we do with multiple funds, and then look at what we get back from it. You can do that now. This also applies to joint purchases. That's what's happening now. We do things together with Germany, with Belgium. We don't have to put all our money into a pot for that and then see what we're going to buy from it. Otherwise, I am afraid that the big Member States will have the biggest finger in their mouths again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u76	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would, of course, like to hear what the Prime Minister has to say about this. In a debate on the European Union, let me make a point of saying that we do not agree with all these things in Brussels, and then pretend to be very critical here. That won't do us any good. So if the Christian Union is critical, they can say to the Prime Minister: do not agree in Brussels. I think we should be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u78	Yes, I agree with Mr Van Ojik, but the problem is, of course, that we have several agencies in Brussels where we put our money into, but where an autonomous decision-making process takes place. That is what we see unfolding here: we put money into that Defence Fund and then we put an agency under it that is about spending from that fund. This will be an autonomous decision-making process, on which we, as Parliament, have little or no influence. Mr Van Ojik can say: 'Yes, but we still have the European Defence Councils in which our own ministers sit', but they are no longer directly about that. They are only very circumstantial about that, because the spending will take place directly from that Defence Fund. That's my suspicion as long as this process goes on and on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u79	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr President, I was at PESCO, the European structure for military cooperation. The Council intends to establish this structure before the end of the year. The Netherlands should draw up a list of commitments for participation in PESCO. Can the Prime Minister tell us what he's thinking about? How does PESCO relate to existing structures such as the Defence Council, the European Defence Agency and, of course, the EU Battlegroup? Can the Prime Minister say anything about that? Then migration, an important subject. We need far-reaching European cooperation for this, and we need it very much. Work is currently under way on the revision of the common European asylum policy. At the same time, we know that some Eastern European countries continue to refuse to participate in a more balanced distribution of the number of refugees that Europe should accept. I understand that the European Court has now ruled on the complaints of Hungary and Slovakia. Both Member States have already indicated that they are rejecting these statements. What is the Prime Minister's view now that the infringement procedure seems to be in place? What does he think of the idea of reducing non-cooperative countries on their structural funds? Is this really going to happen now? The Christian Union welcomes the continued contribution of Europe to the refugee problem. The European Commission's proposal to resettle 50 000 refugees from Africa can therefore count on our support. How is the Netherlands handling this? Are we going to make a share of that? What does the Netherlands actually think of more or less capitulating at the moment by making the system voluntary? We've seen that coercion is difficult. Now the European Commission is proposing a kind of voluntary framework for European Member States to register. Is this not the end of the solidarity that we have to guard against each other in the distribution of relocating refugees? I would like a response from the Minister to that. Return policy is also something that should be done together in particular. Focus stays here whether we're gonna make it or whether we're really gonna get a step further together. I understand that visa policy is now also on the agenda. Is there support for refusing visas for countries such as Morocco when it comes to Europe? Is it being used seriously and hard to get Morocco to take its nationals back? Then Libya. I understand that the High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Mogherini, now wants to close the camps. Juncker wants that, too. Praise for that, because of course there are terrible conditions in the camps. But what does closing the camps mean? What happens to the migrants? Who is going to ensure that these migrants are received humanely and at least treated humanely? The EU does not yet have any plans to do so, as I know. I ask the Prime Minister what his commitment will be when it comes to migrants there. Finally, Turkey. I agree with what Mr Verhoeven said when it comes to the research of the Free University and the still poignant conditions on the ground. Can the Minister respond to that? There still appears to be no full support for pre-accession fees. Is the Prime Minister going to go through with this in order to end pre-accession aid for Turkey? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u82	Madam President, thank you very much. Crisis waves are tumbling all over each other. The debt crisis of Greece, among others. The unbridled money creation by the European Central Bank. The intended Brexit. The continuing migration problem. Mr. Chairman. The ship Europe is still making water, but it continues to float happily for the time being. But who amazes us? Captain Juncker saw, almost a month ago, a sun-drenched future in his State of the European Union, strengthening and deepening European integration. The EU has the wind back on its feet and needs to make use of the momentum. Change of course? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Chairman. Forgive me, but I was involuntaryly reminded of Mohammed Said al-Sahaf or Comical Ali, the Iraqi Minister of Information during the Second Gulf War in 2003. I recommend you search Comical Ali on YouTube and have a look at some movies. Then you know what I mean. Not an eye for threats, but full force ahead. The most striking thing in this respect is that the Commission focuses solely on the impact of the scenario of the White Paper on the future of Europe, which advocates the most far-reaching integration. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue at European level that all five scenarios should be properly worked out by the European Commission? At least then the Member States will have something to choose. I have prepared a motion on that point. That is what I have done to my fellow Members, at least to try to do so. But I actually prepared that motion in the expectation that I will not file it because there will be a firm commitment from the Prime Minister. Then the point of migration. On the Council's proposals for a permanent EU resettlement framework, the SGP stresses the need for a link between resettlement and return. It's not like one can do without the other. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. The SGP Group supports the government's commitment to countering the process and testing integration opportunities as grounds on which Member States may refuse resettlement. Can these proposals be expected to receive sufficient support within the EU? I'd like a prime minister's valuation. Human reception in the region, including in pre-asylum camps, and addressing the root causes of migration in terms of the SGP should also be and remain policy priorities. Defence cooperation. It's called a hangar. The Netherlands and other Member States must at all times retain control and final responsibility for the deployment of their military forces within PESCO, European defence cooperation. Fortunately, the government underlines that PESCO is intergovernmental cooperation, but what guarantees do the Prime Minister believe that this will continue to be so in the future? The SGP further underlines that NATO is and remains the cornerstone of our security policy and that it must be avoided that stronger EU cooperation leads to duplication with NATO tasks. Then there is relations with Turkey. The SPG Group welcomes the government's call for the suspension of pre-accession aid. A question is the possibility for the cabinet to maintain the strategic partnership with Turkey. And finally, the Brexit. Last but not least. A source of uncertainty, where it concerns its impact on the Netherlands. Do the British themselves know where they're going with this? One important point, a key point, is, in our view, that sufficient attention must be paid to the negotiations for mutual wishes and interests. Despite Barnier's recent conclusion, which was shared this afternoon, I would like to insist that the EU be prepared to do something and that the second phase of negotiations on the future relationship be extended as soon as possible, precisely to avoid a hard break-up or a fight. Here, too, I would like a response from the Prime Minister. A motion for a resolution has also been prepared on this subject. Mr President, first of all, let me leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you. I call Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr President, thank you. The Dutch want the European Union to solve the major cross-border problems, such as migration, security and climate. Many Dutch people regret the fact that the United Kingdom is leaving the EU, but we have accepted it. The big question is how are we going to minimise the damage to this loss-loss situation? Today we are discussing the Prime Minister's contribution to the European Summit on 19 and 20 October, so next week. There are a number of important issues on the agenda. Brexit is one of the most important. The question has already been asked when we are going to the next stage of the negotiations. When is there sufficient progress, sufficient progress in the first phase, which deals with the rights of citizens of the European Union and of the United Kingdom, across the border with Ireland and also with the departure scheme? It has also been said by colleagues that Mr Barnier said at his press conference this morning that there is an impasse and that there is not enough progress. Does the Prime Minister share Mr Barnier's view? The fact that there is an impasse is not good news; not for the United Kingdom but also for the Netherlands. We have close trade relations with the United Kingdom and we have an interest in close relations in the future with the United Kingdom. So it's a pity we can't move on to the second phase. Mr Barnier also said at his press conference this morning that he wanted to look slowly but surely for ways to get out of this impasse. The news of the press conference is fresh from the press, but does the cabinet already know what Mr Barnier is thinking? We are very curious. Of course the British must deliver, but does Mr Barnier still have a solution in his sleeve? If you read about this impasse and you read the British newspapers, you will see that there is a huge division in that British cabinet. That sometimes speaks with three, four mouths. If you listen to what is said in the House of Commons, the British Parliament about Brexit, like last Monday, you get the impression that some Members of the House of Commons have a very special relationship with reality. They're still in campaign mode there. You can laugh about that on one side, but it's not convenient. Because you need rational people for rational chords.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u85	What are the statements made in the House of Commons by Mr Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u86	Listen to what Mr Redwood, Mr Rees-Mogg, said about Bill Cash. Why don't you pull up those statements? It is said: get out quickly, because we are far better off and far more prosperous outside the European Union than in it, so hurry! If you say that, you're not realistic. All these statements can be traced. I'd like to give them to Mr Baudet, because he won't have to look them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u87	You don't have to be so angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u88	These Conservatives are united in the European Research Group. That's what they call themselves. Well, then you get these kind of lyrics. They're pretty unrealistic and they don't help solve the problems. If this is not going well, should we not prepare for a cliffedge scenario, a scenario where there is no agreement with the United Kingdom? Well, that's the question. Then there is also the question whether the Dutch public services such as the Royal Marechaussee, customs, but also the inspection services that control fruit and vegetables, for example, are prepared for no agreement. Are the ICT systems in order? Is money needed for these preparations? Is that a reservation yet? What is the state of Dutch business? Are the large companies and small companies well prepared for a possible cliffedge scenario? I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. It seems to me that the Netherlands is going to prepare for this cliffedge scenario. We hope, of course, that things are going well. If that happens and we go to the so-called phase 2, about future relationships, then the Netherlands must be well prepared for that. Have the interests of the various sectors been well identified? Do we know what our priorities are? If Mr Barnier, the chief negotiator of the European Commission, goes to phase 2, are those interests of the Netherlands on the table? Above all: are these interests heard at the European negotiating table? Then I come to the future of the European Union. A number of colleagues have already mentioned the speech by the President of France and the President of the European Commission. I have another side question about Mr Juncker's speech. He announced a summit on 30 March 2019 in Romania. I wonder if that part of Mr Juncker's speech was now in line with the European Council. Maybe the Prime Minister can... I can see him shaking no at the moment, so Mr Juncker may have acted on his own. Well, that's good to know. The Prime Minister sent to the Chamber a so-called cabinet juice valuation of both speeches. The impression is that there are no concrete proposals. That's what the letter to the Chamber says. However, Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, has been asked to create a structure for the debate on the future of the European Union in the coming weeks or months. Now I know that the Prime Minister had a conversation with Mr. Tusk last week. What's he like in that debate? How will Mr Tusk structure this debate? What basic principles does the cabinet apply to the possible proposals that come forward? What is the stake in these talks? And above all: how will the Netherlands actively influence the decision-making process? We can start complaining about the European Union and say "it's nothing and it's not gonna work out." Some parties do that, but maybe you should try to exert influence. How will the Netherlands do that? Who are our ally on which themes? Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Dutch commitment is that we are committed to solving the major cross-border problems I mentioned, such as climate and security. But we also want countries to comply with the budgetary commitments, that economies converge, but increase, and that countries become stronger. That's also, if you read correctly, in the coalition agreement. Finally, my message. I think that we should not complain about presidential speeches, but that we should show Dutch pragmatism and exert as much influence as possible on European decision-making. That seems to me to be the task of the new cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u89	Those presidential speeches, of course, have their symbolism. They define the route that is planned. The only thing pragmatic countries can do is slow down a bit, but they can't turn down anymore. Would it not be wise, as I ask the VVD, if our Prime Minister and perhaps other ministers in the next cabinet also put other ideas on the notes that have come from the European Commission? We don't want to go that way, but we want to go that way, and that takes those steps. Then not one dish is served, but then you can choose. A liberal is always for freedom of choice, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u90	If you look closely at the coalition agreement but also at my contributions, then we say very practically: what can we do and what can Europe do better than we do? I have already mentioned the issues, such as migration and security. But we must also ensure that we keep to the existing agreements. They are about budgetary rules and we must abide by them; in particular, other countries must do so. You're gonna have to take care of that. So on the one hand we have President Macron's presidential speeches and on the other we have Dutch pragmatism. You need to see how you can get them to touch each other, so that our interests are well on the table and we can also drag them in. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u91	If you look at the meter in front of you, you can be very pragmatic, but they look 100 meters further. If you don't look at that, then at some point you've all moved metres and then you come to the destination that the presidents have outlined. It is absolutely sensible to be pragmatic, but it is unwise not to know where we are going. Look at the impact of those five scenarios and those five positions. They're all going one way. Surely Mr Mulder of the VVD must recognize and acknowledge that? Juncker says, "Everyone who puts a scenario next to it, that's what we're gonna talk about." But nobody puts a scenario next to it that's not europhile. Wouldn't it be a good job for our Prime Minister and the new government to put alternatives aside too, so we don't only have one way out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u92	I think we talked about that last year when we talked about what is called the "Bratislava roadmap" in jargon. The cabinet is very concrete. Let's start with, before we come up with any new plans, keep the agreements we already have. Let us continue to complete the internal market. That has already been said by Mr Verhoeven when he talked about the digital single market. We're practical. We do not need great visions of the European Union, but we want to solve people's practical problems. That is the Dutch vision and view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u93	Finally. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u94	This is actually digging your own grave. Having no vision is also a vision. Then you're actually joining what the big visionaries are proposing to us. Then you can be a little critical here in the debate room and be a little pragmatic, but then you're just sitting behind Juncker and Macron. Then we can sometimes say "we're still trying to put a foot between the spokes," but that's generally a lot more painful for the foot than for the spokes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u95	That's interesting. What is interesting about Mr Macron's speech is that he held him two days after the German elections. That's a little French grandeur. What is Germany's reaction? What do you hear from the Bundeskanzleramt? "That's an interesting contribution to the discussion." This week we saw the so-called non-paper on the euro area of the German Finance Minister Schäuble. It does appeal to me to what that very big country says. I hear the FDP say about other plans: brave. When someone says "bravely" to you in politics, you often find yourself on a dead end at very high speed. So I'm not that worried. France doesn't decide it on its own. Some of France's ideas are good: trade, migration. That's something that needs to be dealt with. But I wouldn't react so excitedly to Macron. Pragmatic viewing. A nice speech, well delivered. The European flag. Keep looking very pragmatic: what is in it for us and who are our allies? Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u96	A certain pragmatism in politics is indispensable, I think. But I would like to support Mrs Leijten a little bit. There is a White Paper with five scenarios. We see that the latter scenario is constantly being developed in substance by the Commission. My question to my colleague, Mr Mulder, is: is it not wise to at least urge from the Netherlands that if necessary, the Netherlands should start working on its own, but first of all it should come from the European Commission itself that there should be fully developed alternatives? Macron's vision can be included in this, as can Mrs Merkel's vision and so on. We need to know exactly what we are going for, on the basis of the frameworks outlined in the White Paper itself. Otherwise, let's take a tow. Then we can be very pragmatic, but we wave in all directions and we do not help determine the course. Does Mr Mulder agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u97	I very much agree with Mr Bishop. We have also asked for a response to the White Papers, in particular on the euro area. The Chamber has requested a response before 1 November. We look forward to that. Of course, we have to provide a response. But we shouldn't let Juncker drive us crazy either. I've been trying to drive a bit of a wedge between him and the national states. Does he do that on his own? Mr Juncker started his speech halfway through: "I have been active in Europe for 30 years now and this is my personal vision." That's what the Prime Minister has to say here, "this is my personal vision." This room is too small. Apparently, Mr Juncker has a personal vision. Well, okay. Keep an eye on it, but don't overestimate it. Dealing with it very calmly, pragmatically, looking for allies and seeing what we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u98	But that does mean proactively, making sure that allies come to your side and that there are other plans. This means that orders must be given, including from the Netherlands. Well, if a motion is needed, it's always possible to put your name underneath it, so it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u99	I think we agree, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u100	Before we start looking for allies within the European Union, it might be useful to know first what parties in this Chamber actually want. Then I will start with Mr Mulder of the VVD. As I recall, you were first opposed to a European Public Prosecutor's Office. Now you're up for it. You were first against a European Minister of Finance. Now you're up for it. You've completely lost me. I do not know what you want with the European policy of the Netherlands. What is the real vision of the VVD? Or should I listen to your colleague from D66 for your vision in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u101	I told you to keep an eye on the ball. One of the things that matters to the Netherlands is that the countries comply with the budgetary commitments. That's important to us. We need an institution that's gonna do that. I don't think the name of that institute is the most important thing. The point is that there is someone who upholds the rules, that's what it's about. That is the Dutch interest. That is how I look at the European Union: look carefully at what our interests are, look a little out of the labels that you stick to and so pragmatically achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u102	That is not pragmatic, it is not critical, it is simply Europhile. I propose that we listen to Mr Verhoeven and Mr Verhofstadt for the input of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u103	Everyone has a mouth and two ears. I don't think that's for nothing. I don't think Mrs Maeijer understood me correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk today about a number of issues: the Brexit, a number of new initiatives in Europe, Greece, Catalonia and Turkey. Let me start with the Brexit. We seem to be heading off a chaotic Brexit. I would like to add my voice to the previous questions on Barnier's comments on insufficient progress. This also admits that there can be considerable damage for the Netherlands, because in a chaotic Brexit, in a Brexit where there are no agreements, we do not have agreements on how we do customs formalities, we do not have agreements on aircraft that take off in Britain and land in the Netherlands, and we do not have agreements on the exchange of data to catch criminals. It's important to have those appointments. I therefore ask the government to do the following. Is it prepared to make a worst case scenario script in case no agreements are made on this? Reference has already been made to the fact that this would cause considerable damage to the economy. And is the government prepared to ask the regulators in the Netherlands to check whether companies are sufficiently prepared for this? I come to the new initiatives. At the informal summit in Tallinn, the Prime Minister was right to point out that things need to change in Europe, but this needs to be phased out. The Prime Minister stepped on the brakes to prevent Europe from flying off the bend. It was rightly decided at the summit that there should be order in the now many proposals. The Prime Minister can also have an important role to play in the decision-making process on which proposals are and which are not put forward. The Netherlands will have to take a position, but where are the red lines for the Prime Minister? At the informal summit, the Prime Minister would have been the first to speak to set the tone. As I said, the tone was set, but what proposals did the Prime Minister make at this summit? What did he step on the brake for and what didn't? Unfortunately, we do not yet receive an agenda or minutes of the informal summits, but that is another problem. Especially around the new ESM we have questions. We would simply like to have answered these questions in writing in the weeks to come, because the government must really quickly indicate where the lines are in the negotiations ahead of the December summit. How is the government going to ensure that no transfer union is launched through the modernisation of the ESM? How does it limit the risk within TARGET2? I'd like to get an official response to that, if not today, then within a week or two. Let's talk about the agenda. We were told that we had draft Council conclusions, Mrs Maeijer says they were on Twitter, but in the Delegates Portal, where the MPs can see them confidentially, they weren't there two hours ago. So I have no idea what the draft decisions are. The Delegates Portal, where we can see what is being discussed, contains documents from which we are not allowed to quote, but I am going to say one little thing. There was one document about the Brexit. That was the document in which the meeting was convened. Here's what it said. Paragraph 1: we approve the agenda. Point 2: we're gonna talk about the Brexit. Yeah, I get that! But if that's all we get from information here, then I can't do my job. We have been asking for Brexit documents here for a year. So we have to quote from the newspaper, as all my colleagues do here, but we can see a little bit of what is in those negotiations, in order to be able to control the government on this important dossier. Again I like to get a bit of a reaction to this. Mr. Chairman. The Greek economy seems to be doing a little better. There is growth and there is no budget deficit. But why is the ECB allowed to buy Greek loans again? Does the government even know a private market player who buys loans from Greece? Why should the ECB do that? I'd like to get a reaction to that. With regard to the illegal referendum in Catalonia, I agree with colleagues. It is a domestic matter, but I do have a question about it. The European Union has said that it wants to investigate excessive police violence. How's that gonna happen? How is an escalation prevented? There is indeed, to speak with a colleague, a lot of testosterone and that can lead to a very conflict. We really need to avoid that. Finally, I come to the external relationship with Turkey. It's on the table. Are we finally going to look for an alternative form of cooperation with Turkey? Could the Prime Minister indicate how he sees this new relationship with Turkey? How realistic does he now think that something is really going to change? The annotated agenda states that the Netherlands will once again press for the cessation of pre-accession support and that this will probably not work again. But Turkey does not meet the Copenhagen criteria in any way. So I agree with the fellow Member who said: it seems that they have been evaluated whether they meet the Copenhagen criteria; can we see the documents? I would really like to see what the European Commission thinks. If these documents are not public, then they are confidential, but I would like to see what is still being thought of in Brussels that Turkey will comply with them. Then this year there is the midterm review of IPA funds, of pre-accession support. You know, the billions they get. Recommendation 8 on this meant that certain cases of Turkey should be stopped. Are we going to do what with this recommendation, which is aimed specifically at Turkey and not at the other countries? This recommendation dates back to June. Or does this one stay in a drawer? I like to get a reaction what we do with the midterm review forced by the Netherlands. Mr Mulder was also always very proud that we had it, and rightly so. Of course, that midterm review doesn't work out very well. Mr President, that is my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u107	We have, of course, seen that the European Union, or the European project, is getting a little bigger and is attracting a little more and more topics, such as political issues. Now, for example, there is a demand for a European army or a European defence partnership and for a European Minister of Finance. Or something's called something else and so on. What we have always come across is something that all the people in this debate will have to agree on, regardless of their position, is that the European Union has become a little bigger and that new problems have appeared on the horizon for which an EU solution had to be found. Regardless of whether it concerns financial matters, euro issues, migration issues that need to be resolved at European level, call it all, but more and more subjects are coming within the reach of the European Union. The Prime Minister's position so far has always been, in line with what his party has always advocated, that it must be pragmatic: we are always going to look at what needs to be done now or tomorrow, and not more than that. Mark Rutte himself said: we are ahead of a pragmatic course; no vistas. This approach of the European Union implies that these pragmatic solutions are stable in themselves. Indeed, if you create an unstable solution, you know that in a year or five years' time you will have to come up with a new pragmatic step. Then you're getting further and further towards a particular terminal or a different kind of EU than you'd anticipated before. So I have just one very important question to the Prime Minister: could he outline what he thinks is the finality of the EU? What's the project he still wants to agree to? What is his willingness to transfer sovereignty to and what does he absolutely not want? What is, what isn't? What is the VVD's view on how the EU should continue to work in the future? That's what I'd really like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Prime Minister can respond in two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u109	I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of subjects have passed by. I will try to respond to that as best I can. Not all these subjects will be on the agenda next week, but I will try to answer them wherever I can. The first issue, I believe, is the various speeches recently made by the President of the Commission and by the President of France. We also discussed the future of the European Union at an informal dinner last week in Tallinn. What you are gradually seeing is a degree of consensus that it was good to carry out what has been agreed in the past, and to prevent us from stacking a new future discussion on previous intentions to shape that future, as was done in Bratislava. This led to the Bratislava railway booklet, last September. The way I see it now was also the discussion with the President of the Council last week. In the coming period, we will do a few things at the same time. We have that agenda from Bratislava. This is a very pragmatic, practical agenda on important issues, such as the internal market, the area of migration, defence cooperation and the further strengthening of monetary union. In the near future, we will focus our energies on implementing that agenda. And then we will encounter important issues, where thinking may need to be further developed. That may well be the case, but there is something to it, namely that the European Council will deal more than usual with the undoing of decisions that are stuck in the professional councils. As an example, I would like to mention the European digital single market. The whole strategy consists of 43 proposals, legislative articles, all of which I know are what, of which only 6 have been really implemented and some 37 are still stuck, give or take one or two. Why is that happening? Because it's finally stuck at the level of professional councils. If you want to work crediblely on what should happen in the future, I think you should at least be credible in the implementation of previous decisions. This is a good example, because the digital single market is sensitive across Europe and can have all kinds of effects on national economies. I will speak briefly about Tallinn. The second day of Tallinn, that Friday, was about cooperation in Europe in the technical field, the ICT part, the internal digital market and what that means for our economies. That is all wonderful, if you manage to remove the blockades that are in the way of the internal market. The Netherlands also made a number of proposals a few months ago. We do not do that with flags, but more Dutch. Each country has its own style. I love that French style, too. If that's what you want, I'd be happy to gather you all together, along with the Senate, in a large palace, and there, with a whole series of soldiers on my way to the stage, to address me. If that's your wish, I'd be happy to do it sometime. That sounds like a lot of fun to me, but of course we have a more down-to-earth approach. I see Mr Omtzigt looking like: I don't have to. I don't think it suits us either, but every country's style. The French President has a different approach from that of a Dutch Prime Minister from the Gaullist presidency, but we did make a whole series of proposals a few months ago, for example on EMU. These concerned the conversion of the ESM into a form of a European Monetary Fund, whereby aid to countries in difficulty is combined with the role of the troika. There were also proposals on how to prevent countries from gaining access to the ESM, without involving public and private creditors or lenders to such a country. This is also reflected in the coalition agreement for the new cabinet. We're drawing a consistent line there. How can you ensure that what you do with your Structural and Cohesion Funds will be more closely linked to compliance by countries with the country-specific recommendations, and perhaps also the Stability and Growth Pact, if I may mention it, as a small extension of the government agreement? This is how you come up with a whole range of proposals that are needed to ensure that EMU is strengthened. I'm so happy to give room for an interruption, Mr. President. The question is asked what its purpose is. The aim is to revive the basic promise of the euro. The basic promise of the euro was that we would all converge to a higher level of prosperity. How do you do that? You do that by having your own house in order in the first place. So you really need to take national measures to get your economy healthy again. The Netherlands also came from a severe depression, a severe recession. In the meantime, with the exception of one or two Baltic countries, the Netherlands has almost the fastest growing economy in the euro area. This was achieved because we took these necessary measures. That is why we are also having debates here on how we can reduce the burden and invest in things that we consider important, while we still have a budget surplus. What you naturally want to avoid is that a number of instruments that you build at euro area level will be an alternative to taking those measures at national level. I would therefore like to say that the Netherlands has also made these proposals. In further shaping this discussion, we in Europe advocate a course of action which combines the implementation of the existing agenda and the European Council with a more practical role and takes decisions from discussions. If it stays stuck at the level below very often, the Heads of Government will have to do so. And 3: while you are in that process, you will encounter issues that require further thought. Indeed, I say finally, the speech by the French President contains a lot of good material. I've had a few long conversations with him. We don't agree on everything. I am concerned about ideas about a European shock absorption fund, because then I hear that we will have to pay for the Italian WW. Then I think, "Yeah, wait a minute, why a shock? Italy must also implement the necessary reforms." Moreover, this has been happening increasingly since the last Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister took office. You can also see the Italian economy growing more. But Italy still has a high WW and a state debt of more than or close to 140%. We cannot compensate for this as the Netherlands or as Germany or as Finland with a shock absorption fund. That is actually the line along which we are holding this discussion, in a very quiet way. I have no objection to Juncker's speeches, and certainly not Macron's. Juncker can do that, too. He is President of the Commission. He must make the speech about the State of the Union. I welcome that, too. He does not have to agree on all of this in advance, but we do not necessarily have to agree with everything. It is then up to us to do so, and that is what President Tusk is doing right now, so that after the elections in 2019, when the new Commission takes office, there is also a strategic agenda for the period 2019-2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u111	I see you've been at the interrupting microphone for a while, Mrs. Leijten. I'll give you the floor in a minute, but I'd like to know how the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u112	What I could do to give the debate perhaps some structure is to answer a single question under the first heading of the debate on the future of Europe. Then I dealt with the subject and then I come to the European asylum policy. I quickly check if there are any other things in the lyrics that I have forgotten. Perhaps one more thing: Mr Van Ojik's question on the future of the EU White Paper. The appreciation of the White Papers published by the Commission has been sent to the Dutch Government. They are also listed in a reply to the written consultation on this week's General Affairs Council. I remind you of answer 23. That's exactly what it's written in. I would not like to give Mr Bishop's suggestion applause. Why not? The Commission has laid down various scenarios. The Commission can do that. Mr Bishop actually says that I should ask the Commission to develop them all. That's just tying the cat to the bacon. Know what you wish for! I would say: acknowledge the role of the Commission, but ultimately it is the European Council that gives political direction to the European Union and takes decisions. The Commission has developed several scenarios. This also leads to discussion, but the Commission is proposing in the field of EDIS that the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme should take all kinds of steps now. You saw it this week, too. These steps are contrary to the Dutch and German positions. Germany immediately informed us of this. So leave the Commission in that role, in the role of the Commission. Let's not make it bigger or smaller than that part. That role is essential, but if you are going to ask for all these scenarios to be worked out, then I am really afraid that we will get a mer à boire of material, while the Netherlands will have to come up with proposals itself, whatever some of you are suggesting and whatever we are doing. I think that is more relevant than asking others to make their proposals more specific. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the various comments on the future of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u113	Of course, in a report from the Ecofin Council in September, I believe we have heard how the Dutch Government is looking at the development of an EMF, a European Monetary Fund. Of course, we have been told how she feels about the idea that the countries themselves should come out. But there has been no opposition, for example, to the future of EMU as seen by the European Commission, which is a European Minister for Finance and European Taxation. Those are vistas. I wouldn't mind if you put that thing down now... That comes in pieces to the Chamber, because we do not even have an integral reaction to EMU white paper. We'll get it before November 1st, we hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u114	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u115	I think it's very good that you put that together. This can be done, for example, by the Netherlands and Germany. Then they can just put that down and say: this is our position. Then you don't have to say 'no, we don't want to' every time the European Commission says 'well it's done, now we're going to introduce the deposit guarantee scheme European', because then you're always negotiating back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u116	I totally agree with you. So we don't. I don't want to go bustling around here, because that doesn't suit me, but we, as the Netherlands, laid down a leading document in Europe in September 2011 with our paper on the future of the euro. This has led to important policy adjustments. We did so again around the summer with four or five very practical proposals which are now at the heart of the European debate. That's the Dutch style. In the style of other countries, of the President of the Commission and of France, packaging is different, but they also come up with concrete proposals. But I do not think it is our role to always respond to all these other proposals. I like to put our energy into shaping our own ideas. We're working really hard on that. Then you look into the discussion with others who make proposals, how those ideas converge. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u117	I think it's so crazy, don't I? Before the summer, we had a debate in which we said: no European Minister for Finance. The Prime Minister didn't need that at all. The motion for a resolution has been adopted, but if you ask how it was carried out, you will get a vague answer. We are not getting any appreciation of that note on the future of economic and monetary union. And now the Prime Minister says: yes, I am in the middle of a counterposition with four or five countries. Look, if you want us and the population to understand a little bit that there could be hand brakes in Europe, you might want to make that a little clearer. I would like the Netherlands, together with a number of countries, to offer an alternative so that you can say at a European summit: either Juncker, or Rutte, so to speak. And not a little less Juncker. Because in the end, Juncker's whole plan will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u118	Isn't that a total lack of self-confidence on the part of the Netherlands in order to conduct the debate in this way? We are talking here about the future of the European Union, of which we are one of the founders. All kinds of people make proposals and then, apparently, because we think we are small, we must immediately call out what we think or not. I think it is much more powerful to say: this is what the Netherlands thinks. We did that in 2011 and we did that around the summer. These proposals are currently dominant in the European debate. That is how you ultimately represent Dutch interests well. Then others make suggestions and you're gonna see what you do and what you don't agree with. Take the European Finance Minister. That role is completely unfulfilled. I have also said it here: if a European finance minister means a minister with his own treasury, budget and so on, then we are against it. But if "European Finance Minister" is a title that you give to, for example, the President of the eurogroup, you have a very different discussion, as I said in the previous debate. So at the end of the day it's crazy to say from some kind of uncertainty "hoho, there's someone coming up with a proposal, that's where we have to go right away..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr President, I object to this, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u120	The Prime Minister will finish his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u121	Yeah, I'll finish the answer, or it won't work. Mrs Leijten, if you do not give me the opportunity to answer, I will stop answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mrs Leijten is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u123	It's not the SP fraction here. I'm just gonna finish my answer. If anyone else makes proposals that we do not like, we can respond to them from the strength of our own ideas. But what Mrs Leijten wants to say in advance is like a kind of calimero: hoho, we do not want this and we do not want that. You'll be panicked all day. You really shouldn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr President, I really object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mrs. Leijten, you'll have the opportunity, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u126	I really object to this, because it would be uncertainty, I would make the Netherlands small and now it is calimero. I object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u127	Yes, you will have the opportunity. Prime Minister, were you finished with your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u128	I was done. Mrs Leijten agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u129	How the role of European Finance Minister should be fulfilled is set out in the May EMU paper. It says: with its own treasury. That's all in there! The Prime Minister could have said long ago: we reject that. It took a room motion to do that. I'm not in favour of us making ourselves small, because I'm in favour of us making ourselves big. I want us to tell Juncker that you can make plans whatever you want, but we have a better plan. All this is now being muffled away in consultations, while the Chamber has still not received the official position of the government. We cannot therefore have any influence on this either. That's what's going on here. It is said that we do not know how the Minister of Finance was completed. We know that, because that is what the European Commission's proposal says, and that has been repeatedly and repeatedly advocated by Juncker. I will not let it happen again that I am told here that I want to make the Netherlands small. On the contrary, I want us to be proud and say that there are alternatives to what comes from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u130	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u131	That is good, but the Dutch Government has always said: if, in that proposal, but there have been several proposals for a European Finance Minister, a European Finance Minister leads to its own treasury function and its own budget, then the Netherlands is against it. So occasionally you also have to position yourself in that debate. I find it much more useful to put my energy into what we want than to constantly respond to other proposals. In this way you can help that debate and play a constructive role as the Netherlands. The central, leading theme in this job will always be to me that was so in the previous cabinet, and I also noticed at the negotiating table of the new cabinet that, of course, we are members of the European Union out of conviction, in our interest and in the collective interest. You want to prevent countries from ultimately taking on their responsibilities arising from that membership, and then you would have to compensate it out of collections. That is also the answer to Mr Báúdet, who asked me where I see the endgame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u132	It's Mr. Baudét, isn't it? Or is it Báúdet indeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u133	Oh, excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u134	I think we're going to have to think about that. If this is a painful matter, we need to get this out of the way first. Is it Baudéé, Baudét or Báúdet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u135	I think the many other things that Mr Rutte says are far worse than saying my name is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u136	Then it's my turn, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say that the Prime Minister's style does appeal to me: to act on that European playing field with self-awareness. In my opinion, the Prime Minister only underestimates one point: the acting of the "Junckers" of Europe does indeed have its impact in Europe and in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u137	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u138	That's the background to the motion I made. Let us at least be aware of this and offer an adequate counter-play to it, without doing so from a cramp or calimero's point of view. I would ask the Prime Minister to look at this motion again from that point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u139	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u140	Of course I'm gonna do that. I'm glad we agree that we have to do it on our own. That is precisely why I am trying to prevent anyone from making a speech like my Portuguese colleague in Bruges last time, and I did not agree with everything: ho, there and there I do not agree with. I think it is powerful to say that this is our position and this is our own strategy. In Europe, we also have a lot of support for this. For a long time we have been working together with countries such as the Scandinavian countries, the Baltic countries, the Benelux countries and Slovenia. We even contacted the Visegrád-4 from the Benelux. That was a very sensible consultation that we had in Warsaw. That was all about the future of the European Union. We are trying to achieve more common positions from the Dutch point of view with countries with similar views. In this way, we are trying to steer this debate and thereby prevent us from always reacting only to what we all do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u141	I would like to add that a speech by Mr Macron and a speech by your colleague from Portugal are somewhat different from a State of the Union by Mr Juncker. In formal terms, he may take on a more subordinate position, but it is all factors that play a part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u142	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u143	I would like that to be taken into account in its approach, which I shall say in the White Paper as well. I want something more to happen than the Prime Minister has indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u144	I think we agree on that. No misunderstanding about that! The members of the European Council are part of the body that should ultimately determine that future position. The President of the Commission has, of course, a very own role, from the Commission's role in the various institutions we have in the European Union. But the most important thing is that we know what we want, that we know what philosophy and conviction we apply to the European Union. I'm glad we agree on that. That membership, we work at the core. There is a great interest, collective and national. I mention embedding and the security offered by cooperation in the EU. I mention the economic opportunities offered by the EU and the community of values that the EU is. At the same time, we must prevent countries from collecting their national responsibility, so what they have to do, to the European level and say: come help me, because I have not been able to do it myself. Then you'll lose the Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u145	I hear Mr Ruttúh say that he has answered my question, but I do not think that is the case at all. I have not heard a single story about where the EU should go in its eyes. Mrs. Leijten hits the nail on the head. Then there will be a European Minister for Finance, perhaps with undressed powers. And then after three years we find out that there is a financial crisis and that we still have to build up the powers. They come up with "weaving mistakes have been made." They'll come up with a story like that. And in the end, you're just at the federal European Union that Verhofstadt dreams of, which Juncker dreams of and D66 dreams of. And congratulations to them: at least they say it honestly. If you do not want to do so, you are always campaigning about it, and your constituents do not want it all. You will have to formulate what the EU should do. Then there must also be an argument as to why what the EU does is constant and could be stable. Because only if that could also work in a stable way, and I say in advance: that cannot be done, it is a sustainable position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u146	Unlike the Forum for Democracy, I do not believe that Europe should be a kind of progressive project...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u147	The EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u148	The EU, fine. So a progressive project, which is going to do more and more things. Apparently that's what you're looking for, but I'm not looking for it. On the contrary, I would like to draw your attention to a very different point of view: why are we doing this? Why are we, as the Netherlands, members of the European Union? I have just outlined the three reasons. By working in an unstable world with other countries you are embedded in a strong structure, which provides security. Two: it offers us enormous economic opportunities. We are the most open economy in the world after Hong Kong. It is crucial for the Netherlands that we are members of this great European internal market. This is vital for our jobs and for our economy. Thirdly, it is a community of values. That's why we do that. Then the question is: how can you ensure that this association we are a member of is more at our service and thus also the collective more at the service? Then I came to the point of: how do you prevent a country like Italy from collecting its national problems? If there are proposals that seem to promote that, I am critical of that. But then I think it is much more important that we have already come up with our own ideas before that than that we start to shout immediately: we do not want those other ideas. No, we have other ideas that are better and that we oppose. We did that in 2011. We have done this again around the summer. That's how you're gonna have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u149	So Mr Rutte does not go into what I say. He comes up with a general story about values and why we are in the EU. My comments do not relate to the question of why someone should or should not be in the EU, but to whether the EU that sees the Prime Minister in front of him can work in a stable way. What we saw with the open borders is not stable, as I said and many with me years ago. You will have cross-border problems, which will have to be solved collectively one day, unless you leave the EU. The same applies to the euro. It is not stable and sooner or later you will have all kinds of crises, for example in southern countries. Then you have to come up with collective solutions again. Thus, the EU is growing further, through an almost Hegelian dialectical system. It's getting bigger and bigger. If Mr Rutte believes that this is not the case and that the EU is not automatically going to continue to grow because that is what he says, what is a stable finality for the EU? I can't hear him about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u150	Just tried to fill that in. For me, this is a European Union which, on these three important objectives I see before me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u151	Concretely!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u152	Yeah, I just made that concrete. Firstly, we ensure a strong security embedding by being a member of the strong collective. This means that we must also contribute to this and make it stronger collectively. Secondly, we must ensure that this collective also offers economic growth. That's what it's doing right now. It is crucial for the Netherlands and for our jobs. Thirdly, it is a strong community of values. Then the question is, what problems are there at such an association? As there are in the parties and as there are in any association, there are problems in the European Union. You'll have to deal with it. That's what we're doing. Then the Netherlands always comes up with consistent proposals to do so. We also have a number of things that we do not want. We do not want the collection of debts. We do not want to harm the no bailout clause. We want countries ultimately to be responsible for solving their own problems first and foremost. If they call on the collective, it must be done under the strictest conditions to continue to run into late maintenance in a very short period of time. That's what the ESM was founded for. That is how I look at the European Union. But first you have to ask yourself what your basic position is. If your basic position is that you don't really want to be a member of it, then that's a, for me not okay, but taken on its own in a democratic process honorable position. I just don't agree; I think it's very bad for the Netherlands. Or you want to be a member of it because of the reasons I mentioned, but then you must also be prepared to take crucial steps on those important elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u153	One final comment, briefly, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u154	I can all follow what the Prime Minister says...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u156	Because we both speak the Dutch language, so I can follow what you say. But of course you have to ask yourself: what is the European Union? You can say: I have certain intentions, so I am going to become a member of the European Union. Okay, then there's gonna be a pretty subjective story about all kinds of personal dreams the Prime Minister has about a community of values and so on. But what is it? If it is something that will grow by its very nature and will attract more power, then you will have to make a statement about what you do and do not want the European Union to do. I don't hear the Prime Minister talking about that. I would therefore like to have a list of points that state: we do and we do not. Is the Prime Minister prepared to submit such a list?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u157	This isn't a static discussion, where you can say "this is the list right now"? But let me try to meet him by mentioning a few points. Firstly, I refer to the internal market. I believe that at the moment there is still an insane potential in the areas of digital, capital, Energy Union and services. If you add it up, you can add more than twice the Dutch economy to the collective European economy. We are talking about EUR 1.3 to EUR 1.4 trillion of extra economic potential for the European Union as a whole. That's huge! In fact, all the decisions are ready, but they are not due to political problems in Member States and European trade councils. That is why the Netherlands is now putting forward the proposal to make decisions at the level of the European Council of Heads of Government. One of my goals was that strong economy, and if we succeed, you can tap into that potential of that 1.4 billion. A second example: being embedded in this cooperation offers collective security. What do you have to do for that? You are right to mention the external borders, but you will also have to ensure that in the case of asylum, you do those things in common that you can do together. You must also be absolutely clear about what can be the national contribution to this. I believe that the European Union has taken good steps in the last few years, including during our Presidency. The deal with Turkey, the agreements with Turkey, is worth gold to get control of the asylum influx that threatened to disrupt German and Dutch society in a decent, humane and humane way. The European Union has played a major role in this. Without the European Union, this would not have been possible. It is my belief that the Netherlands and Germany could not have taken that initiative without the Union in this form. That is why the new cabinet intends to consider, within all humanitarian conditions, whether it is possible to make this type of agreement with other countries. That way you are not going to some kind of inevitable finality of federality, because I do not believe in that at all. Absolutely not! But that is how you try, from the point of view of why the Netherlands once started to do so, and we were one of the six founders, and from our national interests, to ensure that the European Union does what it has to do. That's gonna take a lot of repair. You have to change a lot of small things for that and sometimes you also have to do a few big things, for example about migration and the internal market. The Netherlands is working on that. We come up with proposals all the time and you can see that these proposals resonate. It is being listened to and, especially after the departure of England, it is absolutely true that the Netherlands will play a more important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u159	I don't know if Ojik was for me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u160	You've been there for so long. We will continue with Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that this is an interesting debate, because the Prime Minister, challenged by questions from colleagues, says something about where he really wants to go with the European Union. It may be up to me, but I haven't heard that very often myself in this way. Before you start talking about which instrument or not, which functions or not, and which funds or not, I think you should have had that debate. Now I think I've discovered one blind spot with the Prime Minister. He just said that we have introduced the euro to achieve convergence at a higher level of prosperity. It seems obvious to me that this is the case, but he will have to acknowledge that this is not possible in practice. Unfortunately, the divergence between north and south within Europe is increasing. That is because, I think, Mr President-in-Office's blind spot is what we are doing here is affecting what they are experiencing. You can't just say I'm not responsible for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u162	And your question is, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u163	Does the Prime Minister agree that we also have a shared responsibility in the Netherlands for matters such as budgetary policy and social policy in countries such as Italy, a country that he himself mentioned? Those countries are a little further away, but you cannot say that they must have put their own house in order before we want to do business with them. And that is what I think I read in the coalition agreement, as I said in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u164	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u165	It's about credibility that matters to me. If you are a member of the currency union, then it is also a matter of keeping to the agreements, for example those contained in the Stability and Growth Pact. That means that you must also be prepared to take very difficult measures. You can now see that the countries that have done so under pressure from the European Emergency Fund are much better, see Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus. They have gone through the necessary processes of change under the pressure that arose from the need to have access to the emergency fund, but of course you do not want that at all. You want countries to do that anyway. We are not going to do Eurobonds, we are not going to make a transfer union, then I find it interesting to think about what we can come up with to ensure that those countries are going to reform more. An example. Some talk about a large fund for the euro area, a kind of shock absorption fund. It would be much more interesting to see if you can link the existing resources in the field of agriculture and the resources that countries receive from the Structural and Cohesion Funds much more closely to whether countries are actually reforming their economies and whether they are complying with the Stability and Growth Pact. That's what it's written down in the coalition agreement. In this way, as the Netherlands, you come up with your own proposals that are relevant and that prevent some kind of large shock absorption fund from coming in to absorb asymmetric shocks. In fact, they are never asymmetric, because if unemployment rises here, it increases elsewhere. It is almost always because there are economic shocks worldwide, which means that we are all going down or all going up in the economic cycle. Unless there was some kind of natural disaster; then you have a different situation. Italy's problems, high public debt, high unemployment, are not the result of asymmetric shocks. They are primarily due to the fact that there have been too few reforms for too long and that public finances have not been taken into account. As Northern Europe, you must avoid repairing that. Of course, Mr Van Ojik is also right: it is a physical law that what we do here, also personally, in every way, every step we take as a human being, affects the whole system. Of course it is. You always have to ask yourself where that influence is. What we do has an impact somewhere else. This is also relevant, but it is starting with the willingness of countries to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u166	Apart from what it begins with, will the Prime Minister agree with me that if we reduce corporation tax, abolish the dividend tax, if we have a larger surplus on the balance of payments every year, in spite of what Europe says about balanced commercial policy, then we will influence what is happening in southern European countries in particular, and that we will be responsible for the fact that in practice there is divergence rather than the convergence that was the goal of the euro? The Prime Minister just remembered it himself. Although countries that were very far behind are now rising, the differences between North and South...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You can't disconnect that from each other like the Prime Minister does now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u167	And yet... I might go with Van Ojik for 10%, 20%, and that's not enough for him, but I'll explain why. I do not think we need to apologize for having a competitive economy, for having a trade surplus and for being able to make the Netherlands attractive as a place of business. Those are things that we fought with each other. We have worked hard for this and I do not think that we, the Netherlands, need to apologise in any way for that fact. I think that other countries should make sure that they are also a place for businesses to settle down, that they are also a country where it is good, where there is good education, where people can eventually start successful businesses. If you can quickly set up a business in the Netherlands and in some other countries in the euro area, it will take almost a year for you to set up a business. If hundreds or thousands of professions are still protected in such a country and these countries are thereby deprived of economic growth, then it is also the responsibility of such a country to do so. Another point I agree with Van Ojik, but that's more like after the news. I have said it before and I have had a lot of criticism from the point of view of employers: now that our economy is running so well at the moment, I do think that where that can be done, and that is not so much room for additional wage increases in every sector. I think so. So I agree with him on those points, but that's more like after the news. 10%, 20% I agree with Mr Van Ojik, but internationally and how we relate to our trade surplus to the other countries, no, I do not agree with him. I really believe that other countries also have an expensive duty to have their own house in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u168	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u169	If you are in a euro area with each other, for example, and you are competing with each other in the field of taxation, as the new cabinet intends to do, then you are working in different directions with your two hands. This leads to instability, which ultimately leads to declining support. I have said it all in my first term and I am not going to repeat it, but that ultimately undermines solidarity in Europe and, with it, the European Union project, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u170	I will leave this question unanswered for a moment. I understand what you're saying, but I think we should get on with the discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u172	The minister said he doesn't want to respond to other people's speeches so much. It has been a long time since he said this during this debate, but I remembered it. I think this is a good angle. The downside of the coin is that he must indicate what the Netherlands and he want with the government agreement for the new cabinet for the next four years and the longer term with Europe. I asked for a vision for Europe. The Prime Minister said he was almost ready for the next issue, so that's why I asked him. Without responding to others, can he indicate what the priorities are in the context of a vision for Europe? Does he think, for example, that the European Union should be enlarged? Does he think that all EU countries should actually join the euro? Does he think that the tax veto of each Member State should be called into question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u173	We can go on like this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u174	It's a lot of questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u175	I'm just talking. Colleagues have been standing here for a long time and you are beginning to count the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u176	About yes, but continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u177	I don't think that's fair, but I'm gonna keep going. Then the final question for this moment, modest as I am. The fourth question concerns the European Union and the European budget. Does he want it to be more or does he say that the existing amount will be distributed differently? Let me give you an example. Prime Minister, you spoke to Macron. Are you talking about land subsidies instead of the WW in Italy? France also has major problems: 100% public debt and the budget deficit is still not below 3%. Do you also talk to Germany about how this country, together with countries that think like us, can make it clear to France that it really needs to reform and that France should not say that it needs to be helped before it can reform? It has to be the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u178	Of course, all these conversations take place. But I do not think that a response to these four questions is a vision. As you know, I'm always allergic to the word "vision" and I'm gonna let that stay for a while. My view is as follows. Actually, I just outlined it. We are a member of the European Union association for a number of very practical considerations, both national and collective. We even founded it. I mentioned those interests, too. Next, it is your expensive duty as a serious Member State to see how to strengthen that association and where it can better serve the interests of the Netherlands and the interests of the collective. This is, for example, in the areas of EMU and the internal market and so on. Let me just mention one point that I think we really should focus on, and that is what we have agreed to do. We have made a great deal of agreements recently, for example on the internal market. Let us now carry it out. I am so afraid that we will soon be laying down a new layer, vision, views and future over all the existing agreements that have not yet been implemented. I think that's wrong. My first step is to carry out what we agreed on. That means you have to ask yourself why it doesn't happen. It does not happen because Heads of Government do not deal with the details of this type of problem. They will have to raise the problems from the trade councils to the level of the European Council and solve them from time to time. This can be extremely uncomfortable for some on one subject and for others on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u179	But that wasn't my question. I fully agree with you on that, by the way. You have said this a number of times this afternoon. That is a very correct point of view: to implement what has been decided. I think the question I asked is very reasonable, whether you call it a vision or not. Citizens in the Netherlands want to know whether the Netherlands, the new cabinet, believes that the EU should be enlarged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u180	I'll walk you through the questions you asked. If you say you have to keep the agreements, you should do the same as the Netherlands. Enlargement has been agreed in Europe. You have to do this through the Copenhagen criteria. Then there is the absorption capacity. There is currently no debate in the European Council on the accession of a specific Member State. It's a long way from that. I have to keep my end of the bargain, too. If I say here that, despite the Copenhagen criteria and absorption capacity, we do not want a country to join over the next ten or twenty years, then I will not stick to the agreements. I can say, however, that it is absolutely out of the question at the moment. The enlargement of the euro area: the European Treaty states that all Member States, except Denmark and the UK, must become members of the euro, that this is the currency of the common European Union. If I'm gonna say here that I don't want to, then I'm not gonna keep appointments that belong to the union. We believe that taxation and the right of veto are crucial. As far as the budget is concerned, we have always said that when England leaves, the budget has to fall with England. On agricultural subsidies: we would like to modernise that system, make it more at the service of innovation, food safety and food innovation. And I think a lot can happen there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u181	Last point, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u182	Of course, we must keep to the agreements you mentioned. I'm familiar with them, too. Then let me limit it to the next four years, so not the ten or twenty you mentioned. I am very curious to know what the new cabinet will think about the enlargement of the European Union and the enlargement of the euro. For in recent years we have learned from what has happened that within these frameworks and those agreements, countries have joined the European Union and the euro, which we say afterwards that we should not have done so. That must be a warning for the years to come, to make a pass on the spot. That is the point I want to make clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u183	I think that final conclusion is a strange one. I agree with the first half of your question. If you have apparently accepted countries too quickly in the past, then you have to stick to the criteria much tighter. But the answer cannot be: no one will ever join the eurozone again, and no one will ever join the eurozone again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u184	No, Mr Van Rooijen. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u185	Shall I continue? Otherwise, I think we're all stuck in our agendas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u186	Yes, but I would like to make a comment about interruptions. I did it to you, Mr Van Rooijen, but it applies to all the spokesmen. The interruptions are far too long and must not be allowed to happen. That's just in the Rules of Procedure. So everyone should just ask a short question or make a short comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u187	My interruption was very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u188	It's not about you personally, Mr Van Rooijen. I'll take you as an example, but it's not about you. It applies to everyone, and I'm really gonna see to it. It's getting really annoying. And that also applies to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u189	Absolutely, so I'm gonna make them even shorter. This was a bit of the introductory part. Now I come to the specific issues. The first is the GEAS, the European asylum approach. To this end, an early revision of the EAS remains an objective, but not at the expense of everything. From all the pieces we've sent, you know our conditions. At the moment, the Estonian Presidency is taking a tour of all Member States to see if a solution is possible, for example for the debate on effective solidarity. We have often discussed the Dutch commitment here and it remains irresponsible... Sorry. That commitment is very justified, but it remains unchanged. The question is what is the view of the Netherlands on all kinds of proposals made in the context of migration. On a number of subjects, we have already informed the Chamber that we will respond to this once the new cabinet has taken office, also because there is no flying rush to do so now. In the hypothetical case of immigrants being admitted to France and Germany and travelling to the Netherlands, they are illegally resident in the Netherlands. Then they will only have a permit for France and will be returned to France. Then there is the commitment to the EU-Africa Summit to come in November. That's the fifth summit. We will come to that later. I'm going there, too. I think it is important that it be a success, because of course we are talking about Africa's economic development and, above all, about removing the root causes of migration, as we did at the summit we had in Malta in November 2015. Then I'll join the defense cooperation. There are also a few brief points about this. There is no new transfer of powers in the field of foreign policy and defence policy with regard to PESCO and the European Defence Fund. The EU's competences are enshrined in the Treaties and remain what they are. Member States can, of course, do additional things within the Treaty. All PESCO decisions must continue to be taken unanimously. A specific question was about the EU Defensive Foundation. It is our commitment that it is designed so that it also meets the Dutch interests as much as possible. Mr Van Ojik also said that "we are making Europe safer and that the fund is helping to develop the capacities that are most needed." It is also important that there is good access for cross-border small and medium-sized enterprises. We do not see any duplication with NATO, if we all shape that well, I say the question answering. This means, indeed, that Member States simply have control over the use of the military. It is an intergovernmental method of decision-making on the basis of unanimity; I say it again. This brings me to the subject of the social pillar. There is no question of all kinds of powers being delegated here. We are talking about a non-binding political declaration, about principles and rights that are already enshrined in existing EU and international legislation. So we are talking about a non-binding political statement. I'm coming to Brexit. Yeah, it's very slow. We can now see that it is not expected that there will be sufficient progress next week on the three central issues: citizens' rights, financial settlement and the external border. In the latter case, the border with Northern Ireland is important. The Netherlands considers it very important that we guard the unity, the unit of the 27, and that we hold Barnier, our negotiator, in position. And of course I understand everyone who says here that big Dutch interests are at stake. Indeed, all kinds of studies show that if things went wrong and it became a "hard Brexit" without concrete agreements or a transitional period, the Dutch economy would of course suffer considerable damage. We are, of course, trying to do everything we can, including in our contacts with the British Government, to encourage them to clarify now. In doing so, it is very important to resolve the issues of the account in the shortest possible time, of course from the position of the citizens, but also, of course, from that external border. This latter issue can potentially have far-reaching consequences if we do not organise it properly. I believe that the European Union has clearly expressed its positions for the first stage in the negotiating directives. They have also been published in the position papers, about citizens, about money, about borders. Then, of course, there was the question of how we look at a transitional period. It's obvious, of course. We have also said before that we can very well imagine that there will be one. Such a period also gives time to fill in a future relationship. But before you can talk about it, there really must be enough progress in the first phase on the three topics I have outlined here. And the most important strategy to put pressure on the UK is the unity. The unit needs to be guarded with each other. Mr Mulder asked about Dutch interests on the same point. I can report that the Netherlands, like other Member States and the European Commission, has mapped out its own trade and other interests. All that homework is done. But then you talk about the second phase, and it will of course be dealt with in a formal sense only if we can see sufficient progress in the first phase. Finally, we have been asked whether we are prepared for a hard Brexit. Of course, we always have to work on contingency plans. We need to prepare for the reintroduction of border controls for UK nationals and for goods. We also need to inform fellow governments, citizens and businesses about the changes. We need to adapt information systems. This means that we are also working internally in the Netherlands, of course, to see which distortions can occur in the worst scenario. In doing so, it is important that industry should also start raising awareness and preparing itself. And at the same time, of course, we want to do everything we can to avoid such a scenario with each other. This brings me, Mr President, to the important subject that is also being discussed here, namely Catalonia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mrs Leijten has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u191	The Prime Minister says that the only answer to uncertainty in the negotiations is unity. What does he think about us not being able to see clearly whether this unity is there and what exactly is the strategy at the table in all these rounds of negotiations? What does he think about us not knowing Europe's negotiating position?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u192	You know him. The guideline, everything has been published, and also its elaboration. That's all public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u193	I believe that Mr Omtzigt has just said that there are very few pieces. And when they're there, there's not much content in it. We do not know what is being discussed in all these rounds, what progress is being made and what Europe's commitment is. In the media it is pretended to be a huge mess in the UK. And it doesn't look great what's going on in the Conservative Party. But what about Europe? Are we really that united?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u194	Yeah, I'm serious. We have reflected our positions for the first stage in the negotiating directives. They have been published in position papers on citizens, money and borders, but also on the other subjects of orderly retirement. Part of that has also been done by the United Kingdom. They too have done so. Those things are public. Mrs Leijten asks me for a political assessment. Of course, I'm in the middle of those discussions, too. I have to note that although there are differences between interests and positions, the EU-27 is working together here and holding Barnier firmly in position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mr President, you just told me not to interrupt the Prime Minister, but I would also like to finish my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u196	You weren't ready; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u197	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u198	Please continue. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u199	It's a jolly atmosphere this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u200	No, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u201	I am trying to do my job here and check the Dutch commitment at a European summit. There is Article 50, the separation from the United Kingdom, just on the agenda. The Prime Minister just said "there's no point in answering" but this way it doesn't make sense to ask a question. If Barnier is saying that there is an impasse and that we are threatening to move towards a hard fighting divorce, something that the Prime Minister himself said he did not want to see, then it is crazy to say 'unit is the answer'? Then you can also say: I want to know from Barnier exactly what he is doing there and whether the course we are heading is sensible? That was the question I asked, and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u202	Of course, we all do. We're not crazy, are we? Of course we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u203	Where can we read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u204	That is my responsibility to the Chamber. I'll tell you that. You trust me, and you accept my explanation, or you don't trust me, and you send me away. But as long as you don't send me away, I'll go on with my work. You're asking me what kind of work I do, and I'm sketching it out for you. We've published all the position papers and what we do. That's all public. That's one. Secondly, there is very intensive contact with Barnier and his team. Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u205	She's listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u206	Three. We obviously have our contacts with the British administration. We are also trying to influence the issue there, but we are in line with the unity we as the European Union have on this point. Big Dutch interests are at stake. I have to say at this point that although Theresa May gave a speech in Florence last week that opened up the transition phase, there was also uncertainty. How many years are we talking about? And is England willing or not to further implement EU legislation in British legislation during that transition phase, to put it in good Dutch? But just as far away from this transition phase, where is the debate in Britain on the three major issues that are needed to establish sufficient progress? We are trying to promote this on all sides and we are looking for further compromises, but we are all doing so from a certain position. It is crucial that we raise 27 of us, because I assure Mrs Leijten and the entire Chamber: the British are good negotiators; they will always try to shop at those 27 and to reduce the unity. I do not blame them at all; I understand that very well. But so far we have not been able to do so, so that we can always put the ball back at London and say: boys, hurry up and come up with concrete proposals; be prepared to make deals, for example about the exit bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u207	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u208	This is exactly the point I made in my term. Of course we can say 'the United Kingdom does not deliver' and the United Kingdom can say 'the European Union does not deliver', but in this way we come to a situation where there is an emergency deal. I asked if the Prime Minister would see any possibility of averting that. On the one hand he hides behind the unit, but on the other hand he is also in favour of a transitional situation. He says "yes, we have big interests," "no, I can't report anymore" and "I answer here." But then we cannot do what we do, namely the government, in this case in its position in the European Union, to monitor what happens at the Brexit. I find that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u209	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u210	I asked the Prime Minister if there was a way out, because that concerns me. But it seems that a Member of Parliament who raises such a question in debates on the European summit is simply a little bit shook away. Then there will be no more debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u211	No, I wouldn't like that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u212	I really do not think that my previous answer can be seen as scampering away. I've given you insight into what we're doing. Mrs. Leijten is terribly angry. I'm sorry, but that's not my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u213	Do not make such subjective comments in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u214	Yeah, but what can I do with that? I just gave you a serious answer, didn't I? I get a little irritated about that and then it's called "jumping away." Then I'd better keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u215	Mr President, I asked the Prime Minister what the European Union's commitment would be. "We all know that, we all know that, we send it to you." Yeah, that's a little bit of scavenging away what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u216	I answered the question! I have outlined the following to Mrs Leijten. I'll summarize it briefly. We have three important topics, starting with the citizens' rights. Then there is the question of the account. We know the Dutch position and position of the EU-27 on this and on the border. We want to be able to establish with the British as soon as possible that there is sufficient progress. That is also really in the interests of the whole process. Of course, we are looking at the possibility of bringing parties closer together without damaging the unity of the EU-27. We have very good contacts with the United Kingdom, we have good contacts with Barnier and his team. My expectation is it's too soon now. I don't see it happening in October. I think we can see that in itself the British Prime Minister has made a good speech in Florence and is making real efforts to create openings. But it is, I suspect, not enough at the moment to establish that there is sufficient progress. That's the position. That's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to give you all the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u217	In the first term, I asked a question about the calculation of the Rabo. You said you were willing to investigate the consequences in the context of a divorce without agreement, in a no-deal. Last year, the Planning Bureau estimated the damage to 2% of our national income. Rabo comes today with 4%: 25 to 35 billion. Are you prepared to investigate this, including through the Planning Bureau, so that we know more about it in case that happens? Davis, and indeed the Prime Minister of England, said this afternoon: we take everything into account, including a no-deal, a divorce without an agreement. He said that again this afternoon at the press conference. You already hinted at it, but I am asking you explicitly: are you prepared to do so? Then I think that the Planning Office is the most appropriate. Because whether it's 2% or 4%, at least it's a huge damage to the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u218	I don't know if we should put a lot of energy into recalculating the depression over and over again. In my view, it has serious consequences. Then the question is how to mitigate these consequences as well as possible. Rabo's study says it could be above 4%. There are other studies and they will always contradict each other. But no matter how you look at it, it just has a big impact, anyway. I would add that a hard Brexit has an insane impact on the United Kingdom itself. It will cause very, very serious damage to the British economy, to British prosperity. The country is really being thrown back. You can already see the enormous effects of the Brexit discussion on British growth. It's gone down a lot. It is now the slowest growing economy. They were Europe's fastest growing economy, but they are now one of Europe's slowest growing economies. If you look at the Netherlands and the impact it has on agrofood, chemistry, knowledge-intensive services, the pharmaceutical industry, metal, transport, mainports, fisheries, it is extremely important that we try to reach good agreements on all these points; absolutely clear. If we can achieve a Brexit with a transitional period and preferably a form of continued involvement in the internal market, that is valuable, absolutely. But I sincerely doubt whether it makes much sense to ask again all kinds of new calculations of the impact. I'm mainly trying to focus the energy, along with you, on preventing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u219	I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u220	There's also a CPB study, by the way. There's a calculation in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u221	That's what I meant: last year's. I think it's a good thing we keep doing our homework behind the scenes. If it happens anyway, we know what the impact is. This can strengthen us, together with the European partners, to prevent it from ever coming to this. 'Cause there's only losers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u222	Then, through you, may I address myself directly to the British. In the Rabo report, you can see that's interesting... that the damage to the United Kingdom is huge. They're talking about a blow of 10% to 18% of national income. That amounts to EUR 450 billion in 2030 and, well, it will be €13,500 per British worker. €13,500 per British worker! These are dramatic figures. So may I again turn directly to the British through you: do not!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u223	I'll share that last part. I have another question about the data we're getting. I only took out the following document, because we Members of Parliament have the right to see the confidential documents. We are talking about Turkey here. We can see very well what the Commission's opinions are on this and how the redistribution is going as a result of the deal between Europe and Turkey. There are ordinary documents behind the meeting. That gives us an idea what the government wants. When it comes to the Brexit, all we get is this note. Luckily, it doesn't say "limit" on it. It merely states that there is an agenda and that there are negotiations. We have been calling on the government for three-quarters of a year now to receive a little more than this, including through official channels. Will the Prime Minister ensure that this is done so that we can see what preparations are being made to avoid this chaotic Brexit, which the Prime Minister rightly says should be avoided? Can he make sure that we can follow the process a little bit better in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u224	Most of the time I can refer to the Foreign Minister, who will be given the floor next.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u225	There isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u226	There isn't, so I'm gonna try it myself. You know that this is not my strong point, but I do not know exactly what the technique behind it is, but I am going to try. First I will say something in general and then I will go into the Brexit. The position of the European Union is on the website of the Commission and the Council. There's full disclosure about that. The Court receives documents which are not public, at Coreper level and at European Council level, both physically and digitally. On 5 October, the Chamber received all the documents. If there is a need for an additional briefing, it will be organized immediately. Then about the Brexit. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has specifically informed the Chamber about the Brexit in writing about the provision of information. In his letter to the Chamber, he responded to the wish of the Chamber to receive digital documents. This wish has been met within the framework of digital security. In doing so, the framework for the provision of information is in itself ready. The first confidential documents have also been sent to the Chamber digitally. In accordance with the agreements with the Chamber, all the documents placed on the Delegates Portal of 27 in recent months have been sent to the Chamber in hard copy. Until this new digital pathway is completed, they are sent along the normal route. At the beginning of November, an AO Information Service will be provided, which I can refer to as a matter of urgency. If Mr Omtzigt has a supplementary question now, then I am out of ammo, but I am going to try...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u227	Then you will have to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u228	Thank you for that. But that does not alter the fact that at the Delegates Portal about the Brexit meeting on 19 and 20 October, we do not yet have a single piece on this issue. The pieces of recent times are there, but for this Member of Parliament who likes to read and be informed, it is quite difficult to follow what we are going to talk about and what decisions are to be taken. And then I'm gonna put my voice down. But we're taking this glove. Together with Mrs Leijten, I am rapporteur on behalf of the Chamber and I will make a few proposals at the beginning of November to make this much better, because this is simply very difficult for democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u229	I get it. I get it. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u230	I suggest you continue with the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to deal with a few more topics. We've been a long way. I come to the questions about Catalonia. What's going on there, of course, has a huge impact. The images on television were intense. Reference has also been made to the research done by Human Rights Watch. I think it's important that we know all the facts exactly before we talk about them. It is a good thing that the Spanish Foreign Minister to Jagland, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, has indicated that he will investigate police action. We don't have to insist on that anymore. That's what's gonna happen. Furthermore, citizens who feel they are victims of police violence can file a complaint with the judiciary. That is precisely what I am saying about the violent images on television and today's and yesterday's reports, also from Human Rights Watch, about what exactly would have happened there. Then I'll get to the general situation. The political situation in Spain is certainly exciting. We see that both Madrid and Barcelona seem to create some space for conversation. The postponement of the meeting of the Catalan Parliament and the reaction of the Spanish Prime Minister show at least something of space. That is also what the Netherlands and other countries have called for. Firstly, we say that Spain is in its own right. Spanish law has spoken and said: Catalonia cannot organise this referendum if it does not, and so the Spanish Government is in its right in its own right. At the same time, we have said: try to calm things a little by means of dialogue. So Rajoy has also asked the Catalan Government to clarify within five days the statement by the Catalan President, which was made in Parliament on Tuesday evening. Of that statement, the people who were present said and the analyses in the media were that it was not 100% clear what he was saying there. One said he declared that independence and the other said he was just trying to create room for discussion. I can also say that, within the liberal ALDE family, I say this as the foreman of the VVD; I know that this also applies to D66, and I know that we are trying to bring parties together as well as possible because one of the pillars of the government in Spain is, of course, Ciudados. That's the liberal party that's going to stand up to the government. All parties are very united in Madrid: the opposition parties, the government parties and the tolerated partner. We're trying to influence that. I'm coming to Turkey. Next week's debate will focus on the following issues. The Commission is going to give an oral analysis. There won't be any pieces. I will inform the Chamber on this through the European Council's report. The accession negotiations are in fact stalled. This was also recorded in writing in the Presidency conclusions of 13 December 2016 thanks to the Dutch commitment. Then there is the question of whether we want to commit ourselves to making some of the IPA funds available to civil society organisations. Yes, because at the Council's explicit request, the Commission will redirect IPA funds for 2017 to civil society, people-to-people contacts and the improvement of the rule of law. Germany is now in favour of this too, so that is an additional support for the Dutch position. Then there is the question of whether we can completely stop pre-accession aid, IPA aid. We have tried this several times, as has also been discussed here in the Chamber. This requires unanimity. There is no such support at the moment. That is why, as I have just outlined, we are at least pressing for it to be turned towards more civil society organisations. A question has been asked about alternative cooperation, which is discussed in the coalition agreement. I am, of course, here as Prime Minister of the current government of VVD and Labour Party. So I feel a little constrained to do so now, unless representatives of the parties joining the cabinet would like to say something about it. It is true that there is something about it in the coalition agreement. It is, in fact, a finding that the negotiations are currently completely blocked. The conclusion, actually a kind of observation, is that accession is simply not there. Then the question is whether it is better to talk about a different kind of relationship between the Netherlands and Turkey. We have also discussed, for example, the talks between the Benelux countries and the four Viségrad countries, whether you should not engage in similar talks with members of the Eastern Partnership. The idea that they can all become members of the European Union is now a bit behind us. This makes the question of how to ultimately achieve other forms of cooperation relevant. Finally, the response to the research in the framework of cooperation with Turkey in the field of Syrian refugees. As we have said before, it is up to the Commission to determine this. She does. It shall implement those EU-Turkey arrangements. The Commission has so far found that there are no structural shortcomings. We understand that the Commission does not recognise the picture outlined in the study. It is also not in line with the image that emerged after several visits by the Dutch embassy. The facts are that, in accordance with both the UN Refugee Convention and Turkish national legislation, every migrant has the right to apply for asylum in Turkey in order to ensure that the principle of non-refoulement is respected. Mr President, in response to the various questions on Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u232	I have two supplementary questions. The first one. There would be an analysis by the Commission of how Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria. Is that explained orally, because we can use that document...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u233	It happens orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u234	That's only verbal, the Prime Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u235	Yes. Allow me to outline the fact that the President of the Commission will present a statement at the European Council's dinner next Thursday at the request of a number of Member States. But I will simply inform you of the European Council's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u236	Then we will hear what the President really thinks about how they meet the Copenhagen criteria on human rights, democracy and other matters. Thank you for keeping the effort to stop IPA. I understand that, but that's not gonna work again, I think, because you do need unanimity for that. It's about billions going to Turkey. It was linked to the fact that they would get more if they got closer to democracy and less if they got further away from it. So that should be a lot less. There is a report from June 2017, with the midterm review of IPA II. It contains a number of specific conclusions on why certain issues in certain programmes should no longer be addressed to the Turkish authorities. Could we hear whether at least everything that is said there that needs to be stopped is also stopped? When will we hear what happens to those recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u237	I'm trying to say that in second term, or is the answer yes? We're gonna stop these things. I looked it up in my head. I will give a more detailed answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr. Chairman. I assume the Prime Minister is now done with his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u239	I have a few questions to answer briefly; on three issues: the EPPO, corporate tax and digitalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u240	My question was about migration and return policy. I haven't heard from the Prime Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u241	The EOM? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u242	No, I've already dealt with that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u243	You have not been paying attention, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u244	I've tried very hard. It was about draft Council decisions. A colleague has also made comments on this. It referred to visa policy when it comes to returning to Morocco. I was wondering if the Prime Minister could say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u245	Yes, I did get that question, but I haven't answered it yet, so you're absolutely right that that question hasn't been answered yet. I'll get back to you in second term. I think it was what was handed to me by the administration, but I can't find it that fast. I shall return to that specific question in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u246	Before you go any further... Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u247	The Prime Minister's second term is after my second term, so that means I couldn't table a motion or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u248	Then I'll have to look in my so well-structured pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u249	It's not a very complicated question. Is the Prime Minister prepared to denounce visa policy when it comes to return policy, under the heading of migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u250	Sure. If that's the question, the answer is yes. Then we're out. That saves a motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u251	I shall then await the additional reply in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u252	Mr. Chairman. Three things, firstly digitization and the summit in Tallinn. The question was what I did there. Cybersecurity and trust go hand in hand, just to do it at headline level. There is ambition to work on a digital government. Estonia is, of course, a wonderful example. We are committed to a successful transformation into a data-driven economy. It is also important to boost data skills among European citizens. This leads to an additional Telecoms Council on 24 October, so you can see that the Prime Minister of Estonia, the country that is now holding the Presidency, is very busy with this. I can say that this is also in line with the Dutch Government's view of the economic importance of the issue of digitalisation. This is an important issue, with enormous growth potential, for the European digital economy, as I have already outlined, but also for the Netherlands. I agree with Mr Verhoeven and others who say that the Netherlands has an insane opportunity there, because we are the country where a large number of major international cable connections arrive. We have data centers here. We now have a start-up community in Amsterdam, which got off the ground very quickly in three or four years. In terms of atmosphere and appearance, this does not look like the best thing happening on the American west coast, but in terms of culture. Given the importance for our economy as a whole, the investment we have to make, the link with the whole issue of climate change, but also the potential for economic growth, there is a huge opportunity here. Hence the four points I have made. As regards the specific question on encryption, I can refer to the cabinet position of 4 January 2016, which we all know: "The cabinet has the task of ensuring the security of the Netherlands and detecting criminal offences." We have also underlined the need for legitimate access to data and communication. We have also emphasised that governments, businesses and citizens benefit from the maximum security of digital systems. In doing so, the Cabinet endorses the importance of strong encryption: for the security of the Internet, in support of the protection of the privacy of citizens, for confidential communication of government and companies and, of course, for the entire Dutch economy. Therefore, it is not desirable at the moment to take restrictive legal measures regarding the development, availability and use of encryption within the Netherlands. That is the position in this regard. Then there is the EOM and the coalition agreement. I find it complicated to defend that right now. I have just done so in the previous debate, but I am standing here again as Prime Minister of the present cabinet. But it is true: the new coalition intends to take a decision during the cabinet period beginning at the end of October/early November on the date when the Netherlands will join the EPPO. You can read it, too. Of course, this will also be discussed with the Chamber in the near future. We will, of course, do everything we can, so I say to Mrs Maeijer, to prevent camelnoses here. They always threaten many topics, but the Netherlands is usually successful in preventing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u253	In order to be clear, are you in favour of or against extending the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u254	Well, there's only proposals about that. We are now looking at the European Public Prosecutor's Office as it is today. There are now no concrete proposals to extend the mandate. There are ideas about this, but that is already more in the context of the debate on the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u255	But we do know that this proposal will come next spring. I assume you've thought about it when you wrote it down in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u256	We want to become a member of the EOM as it is today. Now that we are no longer sidelined but are going to participate, the Netherlands will of course have to relate to proposals to further adapt the EOM. In doing so, it is very important to me that it is indeed not camelnose, but that it is at the service of what the EPPO was set up for, namely the fight against crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u257	So I can stick to the statement that you are opposed to extending the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office to include organised crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u258	No, I was just saying, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u259	Because now it is about dealing with fraud involving European money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u260	I am not going to answer that at all because we are now taking step one, and that is that we are going to relate in a different way to the EOM in the coming time. This means that we must also have a view on all kinds of proposals that exist about the EPPO. Then we will probably come up with our own proposals in the best Dutch tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u261	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u262	Finally, corporate tax. We are certainly not reaching the lowest rate in the European Union. We're just getting a little below average. The average is 22.5%. I also do not agree that this will lead to harmful effects on the economies of other countries. You shouldn't just stare at the rate. There are more factors that play a role in foreign investment: the training of workers, infrastructure, strike days and stable political conditions which we all know how to create here, of course, every day. The Netherlands scores very high on all these elements. Look at Bulgaria, 9%, Hungary, 10%, and Ireland, 12.5%. We are far from in that direction. That is not the ambition either, but we do want to keep the Netherlands competitive. And that is why it is important to take this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u263	Mr Van Rooijen, you also have a second term. So very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u264	You mentioned the average, but you also mention the countries with the low rates. I asked if the Prime Minister has an answer to my question about a possible minimum rate: is that something to think about? In Europe, the Ruding Committee made a major study of the harmonization of corporation tax long ago, 20 years ago. I worked on it myself. That is not just the basis; that is what is being discussed in Europe. But if you do that and move the competition to tariffs, you have a big problem. In the new agreement, you reduce corporate tax. I note that the dividend tax has also been added. It costs 1.4 billion. I would like to tell you, however, that the abolition of the Hills scheme will, in the long term, generate 1.4 billion. This means that the Dutch elderly without debt give foreign investors a gift of 1.5 billion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u265	Mr Van Rooijen, this is rhetoric to which your group chairman is entitled. But you're too smart for that. Really. Because: what is the situation? Abolishing... No, really! The abolition of dividend taxation and the reduction of corporation tax lead to increased employment. Our elders in the Netherlands have children and grandchildren. They want them to get a job, get them to work. We're gonna get rid of the wrong kind of investment here at the same time. We don't want any more mailboxes, we don't want the wrong kind of trust funds anymore. What we do want is that we are also going to do withholding taxes on this. If they are here, we are going to bring in international headquarters of the middle business community and make sure that they have a good business environment. This is crucial for employment. That is what I wanted to say about the connection between these two political dossiers. Then about the minimum rate. I would be very reluctant to discuss this now. Why? Because I think it is important that the Netherlands is capable of some tax competition on these kinds of issues. We, as smaller economies, are in the interest of the very large economies that we remain able to do so. We must continue to talk about how this is going to develop in the future, but I think this step is a sensible one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u266	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u267	Apart from the question of who is the smartest in the Chamber, I would point out that the introduction of the pay-off, the abolition of the Hillen Act, would first take place over a period of 20 years. That has now gone to 30 years. But you know as well as I do that you are as smart as you are, apparently that that can also be 10 or 5 years. That's what I'm talking about. I guarantee you that a subsequent cabinet will not say this next cabinet, but the following cabinet will take 30 to 20, to 10, to 5, as happened with the mortgage interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u268	I would point out, however, that in the case of mortgage interest, this is returned one-on-one in a reduction in the own house fee. This does not therefore lead to a burden increase for the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u269	Thank you. Then I look at the MPs to see if they need a second term. In any case, Mrs Leijten. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u270	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the future of the European Union and the tunnel vision that the European Commission has, I have asked the Prime Minister to simply put forward another proposal. The European Commission is putting forward a proposal that you should not say yes or no to, but that you should put an alternative to. And then the Prime Minister says: I think it makes more sense to make a contribution than to react. Yes, that's exactly what we're asking: don't respond to what others are doing and contribute to it, but just lay down what you want. I shall table the next motion, and I would find it a shame if the intention of the motion was made into a semantic discussion. This is less pragmatic and constructive than the Prime Minister claims to be in Europe. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is committed to deeper integration of the EU in many areas;]] [[considers that it is undesirable that there is only one taste to decide on and that the Heads of Government are now in a position to make alternative proposals;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, together with similar countries, alternatives to the integration plans of the European Commission and to actively inform the Chamber about the Dutch commitment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u271	And then there's Brexit. The answer is unity, but today, through the negotiator, it has been said that there is an impasse. If there's an impasse, you need wise people who don't hide behind each other's broad backs, but see what goes wrong. I would welcome it if it were not said: we have two stages and then we decide on the next stage, and the United Kingdom will figure it out. The consequences for us are great, too. The image outside of two warring parties just doesn't look good. You have to break up properly. I asked the Prime Minister if he could play a part in that and if he saw a way out. He sees that way out of the unit. I think that's a bit of a shame. My final point, Mr President. I asked how the Dutch Government is dealing with the excessive violence against citizens by Spain. Yes, Spain is entitled to accept the referendum or not. I share that with the Prime Minister. But what's the Prime Minister gonna say to Rajoy if he runs into him? I hope the Prime Minister will say the following. Get an independent investigation. Make sure you get there. You're not going to bet your army against your own people, are you? Next time, you're not gonna hit it like that, are you? Because if there is one thing we have to do in Europe, it is to talk to each other about civil rights: you do not deal with your own police or army forces on your own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u272	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u273	Thank you, Mr President. As I said at the time of the interruption, I found this an interesting debate. That tastes like more. The Prime Minister said: I am not going to put a lot of energy into just reacting to proposals from others all the time, because it is precisely to highlight the Dutch position. Who could be against that? There's a lot of places there about that position. I would nevertheless like to put forward a motion to invite the cabinet to put all this together properly once again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in March the European Commission published a White Paper containing five scenarios on the future of the European Union;]] [[having noted that Commission President Juncker set out his ideas for the future of the EU in his State of the Union;]] [[whereas the European Council will draw its first conclusions on the future of the EU in December;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the relationship between the Dutch position and the various scenarios developed by the European Commission in the White Paper and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before the December 2017 European Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u274	I'll have a quick drink of water. I shall now read out my second motion without further introduction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there should be a tax war as a result of the Brexit;]] [[noting that the government agreement includes the intention to reduce the tax on profits and abolish the dividend tax;]] [[whereas these measures may provoke a response from other EU Member States to further reduce the tax burden on foreign companies;]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to ensure that agreements are made within the EU to limit tax competition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Leijten and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u275	Thank you, Mr President. The answer given by the Prime Minister does not really give me a second term, but I promised Mrs Leijten that I would return to the social pillar. Mrs Leijten literally said in the first period that paternity leave is now mandatory by Brussels. There is indeed a social pillar, in which I have just read it. I quote, with your permission, three clear sentences from the Commission. "The rights are not enforceable," i.e. the European Commission cannot enforce all of this. "Member states are primarily competent," i.e. competence, decision-making, is done by the Member States and not by the European Commission. "Areas where the EU has no powers," i.e. these are all subjects where the EU has no formal legislative power. Let me mention one more: 'There is no intention to adopt legislation', i.e. there will be no European legislation. In short, there is no mention whatsoever of what Mrs Leijten has said. It's actually scary, which I think leads to all euro-fear. That is very bad for Europe's support. There is a minimum standard in a directive on paternity leave, but it has been there since 1992. The Netherlands has now put in place a treatment reservation for this. In that sense, therefore, Mrs Leijten is right that a large part of the Chamber does not want that. There is therefore no question of transferring baking powers. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Leijten: Leijten, stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u276	We are actually finishing the debate. And now you're starting all over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u277	The social summit will take place in Gothenburg on 17 November. Juncker and Timmermans have said that, as far as they are concerned, the social pillar will be the common basis for the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council. And it is true that there is talk about making executives on the basis of contracts. Here you can see that they are focusing on the flexibilisation of contracts. They're even talking about rules for freelancers, having two jobs at the same time. We know a bit about who speaks there. And it does say that this will be worked out and presented. When you embrace that social pillar as a common basis, the European Social Charter, which was already a weakening of higher international legislation, has been undermined. And then the social pillar, in which employers are listened to more than trade unions, is leading policy making. It's just in there, it's on the agenda of November 17th in Gothenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u278	You've made your point. I would appeal to you not to challenge Mrs Leijten again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u279	I would point out that I did not interrupt the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u280	I also have a rhyme: perhaps Mr Verhoeven should not be so boastful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u281	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u282	I don't think it's a Sinterklaas yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u283	Again, you surpass me, which I give you very much. Very briefly, Mr President, because I will indeed restrict myself. The current Prime Minister, for whom I am still a member of the opposition, has, in my view, acted too often over the past few years as if nothing was going to come of all the proposals from Europe, and that it was all exaggerated. I didn't always like that. But it is also not the case that all the proposals that are being made immediately lead to the fear, the doom scenarios that Mrs Leijten is always bringing up. It reminds me very much of the Ukraine referendum. Then Mr Van Bommel, former Member of Parliament, had all sorts of fears. He repeatedly claimed all kinds of terrible things that would happen on the basis of things that were not in the texts as they were discussed. I do not think it is desirable to keep saying that all these terrible things are going to happen that are not based on anything. That's what Mrs. Leijten is doing here. I don't think that's wise. I am also looking forward to the debates in the coming years, including with the possible new Prime Minister of a new cabinet, whom I will also pay very close attention to. I will perhaps do so from a slightly different role, but as sharp as the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u284	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u285	I would be happy if Mr Verhoeven also looked at what is on the Gothenburg agenda and how it works out on the social pillar, trade union rights and the management of contracts. There is indeed a transfer of powers. I'm not doing that because I'm scared, but because I have a different view of Europe. During the 2005 referendum, the SP said that it was afraid of militarisation of the European Union. That was also called scary, but we see where we stand today. There will be a European army and a European defence fund! We never wanted that. We saw that coming. Then we were accused of being scared, but we got it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u286	I will listen very carefully to Mrs Leijten and her predictions in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u287	That's the point, otherwise we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u288	No, one more comma, because I'm still talking about my own words. I'll be brief. What I just want to say is that the mandatory imposition of paternity leave by the European Union, as Mrs Leijten has just claimed, will not be the result of any fact-checker. And so does Mrs Leijten!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u289	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u290	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has made some interesting but worrying statements about the future of the European Union and its position in the Netherlands. I strongly suspect that we will be taking further steps towards more European integration in the coming years. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas both President Juncker of the European Commission and the French President Macron have made far-reaching proposals on the future of the EU;]] [[Whereas proposals such as a European Minister of Finance, a European army, enlargement of the Schengen area, enlargement of the EU, a European Public Prosecutor's Office, mandatory introduction of the euro in all Member States are a further erosion of Dutch sovereignty, Dutch freedom and Dutch prosperity;]] [[calls on the cabinet to withdraw from this, while the Netherlands is still part of the European Union, and not to cooperate in any way in the creation of a European superstate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u291	Mr. Chairman. It is known that I have already started on the Achilles heel of this new cabinet. It's not for nothing that the coalition agreement has changed. In response to the Prime Minister's reply, I would like to say the following. If he says that for people in debt, the interest deduction is limited but that it is compensated by a lower rate, that is true. They don't go backwards on balance. But the people who are no longer in debt, the elderly who have been thriving in recent years to pay off their debts, are the only ones in the Netherlands getting a slightly higher addition every year. And there are hundreds of thousands of them! It's been hidden in 20 or 30 years, but I assure you it'll be much faster soon. The elderly who have repaid their debts are the only ones affected by the change in housing arrangements, because the people in debt are compensated and the people without debt get an addition. And that's untrustworthy government!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u292	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u293	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few brief questions for the Prime Minister. Migration and distribution and resettlement towards Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic: there has been infringement proceedings and a court case before the European Court. I was just wondering what the results were. Are we still at an impasse? Are they being cut back on the Structural Funds for this? How should we proceed with those countries that do not want to participate in this resettlement? My second question has been answered by the Prime Minister. I am grateful to him for putting that visa stop for people who want to come to Europe from Morocco on the agenda. In the first term, I asked how the detention centres in Libya are going, now that the European Commission has also stated that these detention centres should be closed down. My final point concerns Turkey and the VU investigation. The Prime Minister says that both the Dutch embassy and the European Commission do not recognise this. There are very serious allegations towards Turkey when it comes to not being able to go to school with children. I also mention the 50% when it comes to not or hardly enough access to judicial assistance. I also call it putting people in detention. So there is a great deal of pride in the VU investigation which I would like to have a reaction from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u294	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u295	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is de facto drawing up only the fifth scenario of the White Paper on the future of Europe, which is based on the most far-reaching European integration;]] [[Whereas balanced debate and decisions on the future of Europe also require a thorough elaboration of the other scenarios for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to seek, at EU level, support for further development by the European Commission of all five scenarios in the White Paper, or to further develop the five future scenarios in the White Paper such as the Netherlands itself, and to set them up in the framework of the parliamentary debate on the future of the European Union by spring 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of the Brexit negotiations, the European Union's attitude towards the United Kingdom is in the mutual interest;]] [[calls on the government at EU level to press for the second stage of negotiations to be opened as soon as possible, extending the discussion to the future relationship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Leijten and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1256]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u297	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u298	Thank you, Mr President. I very much hope that the Prime Minister will indicate that he is going to work out some of the plans of scenarios 3 and 4 so that that effect is there. In fact, the Prime Minister has already indicated this, but perhaps he can indicate what plans the Netherlands is going to develop and how he will keep us informed. As far as the Brexit is concerned, I am pleased that the contingency plans are being made for a chaotic Brexit. That's very important. Above all, I hope that we never need such plans. That is not in the interests of us and not in the interests of the United Kingdom. But they're important for when it happens. As far as Catalonia is concerned, the Prime Minister said that Jagland was going to investigate himself. Unfortunately, the Council of Europe is doing a little too much to itself, but Spain has admitted that it is going to carry out research itself. However, the Council of Europe is not going to conduct an investigation, so I hope that the Prime Minister will keep his finger on the pulse or that the Spanish investigation will continue. It is important that this happens properly. I did not hear a very clear answer to my question about EMU and the euro. Will the Prime Minister indicate the red lines in the report that comes before 1 November? How do we ensure that it does not become a transfer union? How do we ensure that target 2 is not completely out of control? I would like the Prime Minister to include these two issues in the response to the proposals on the euro. Finally, we are very interested in the report on the Copenhagen criteria. I hope they're ticked off one by one. Are you feeling better or are you getting worse? What are the consequences of this for the answer to the questions on IPA funds to Turkey? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u299	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u300	Yes, in response to Mr Rutte's unsatisfactory reply to my questions I have just tabled a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Union has been given or claimed new responsibilities during the various crises of recent years;]] [[Whereas there is great concern among the Dutch people about this ever-increasing shift of power from The Hague to Brussels;]] [[Whereas, in the light of the statements made by several European leaders and EU leaders, numerous ambitious plans for the future tasks and powers of the EU have been reviewed in recent months;]] [[calls on the Government to present before 1 January 2018 an overview of concrete issues that the EU does not think it should do, and on which issues, in the government's view, we should not be able to decide at national level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet, Mr Bishop and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u301	I will give the Prime Minister the floor for his answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u302	I still have a few answers to give. Mr Voordewind has rightly mentioned a few things from the first term. I'll start with the detention centers in Libya. The High Representative has also pointed out the terrible circumstances there. For migrants in Libya, there must be humane reception and return aid. That is why the EU is now working urgently on alternatives to detention centres. We do that together with the IOM and UNHCR. The Netherlands also does this bilaterally. I recently had a discussion here in the Netherlands in June with Prime Minister Sarraj, 'one of the prime ministers' I may say, but well, at least the one about part of Libya. You can also see that Macron is trying to insist on this in his contacts with the various Libyan governments, if I may put it that way. Then there are the penalties for non-solidar countries, which do not cooperate with the Structural Funds. This discussion of solidarity is, of course, being conducted in detail, including within the framework of GEAS. It remains, I believe, desirable that this should be done on the basis of consensus, so that agreements are not only reached, but also implemented. It's not gonna happen on its own. We need to explore the options at the moment and you can see that in the new coalition agreement we are linking to the Union's Multiannual Financial Framework. But we're definitely not there yet. I gave a short answer on the use of the visa instrument. Maybe I should color that answer up a little bit. Yes, it is not new in itself that the EU is prepared to use the visa instrument. Recently this has been mentioned and done more often, for example in Bangladesh, but you must always look at when it is effective. Sometimes it's positive, sometimes it's negative. You have to look at that carefully all the time. I do not think it is the case with Morocco at the moment. There we really need to weigh up different interests, including the fact that Morocco is, of course, an important partner in a number of areas, such as monitoring all kinds of other issues, security and our cooperation on terrorism. Each time you have to look at the situation as to whether you can use an instrument. Then I come to the conclusions of the European Council. In the meantime, the draft ER conclusions have appeared on the portal during this debate. They go to the Chamber in the morning, but I can at least give Mr Omtzigt a copy via the messenger. It's very little, by the way. Is it really just one page? That's it? We're gonna talk for two days! Okay, it's very little, so that's not so bad. I hear Mr Omtzigt shouting from the benches that it is probably the Brexit conclusions, but I think it is very little. Anyway, that's gonna grow a little bit in the next week. Then the issue of modernising the ESM, preventing us from becoming a transfer union and the risks of TARGET2. The ESM provides loans under very clear conditions. They are also reimbursed, so there is certainly no transfer union. As far as we are concerned, the ESM is also going to modernise in such a way that it can help in the decision-making process on support programmes. Then we will get rid of this complex role of the current troika and remain organised on an intergovernmental basis. As far as the TARGET2 debate is concerned, I would like to refer to the various letters from the Minister of Finance. Then recommendation 8 on Turkey from the Commission's assessment on pre-accession aid. In January, the Commission's concrete proposals will follow the mid-term review. We'll have to wait and see. The Commission concluded in an evaluation that IPAII funds should be deployed where they are most effective. I agree. Germany, too, is in favour of this, and I said that in the second term too, it is necessary to use IPA as much as possible for the benefit of civil society and the rule of law for Turkey. So we are going to work together with the Germans to draw attention to this during the debate on Turkey in the European Council, which I will then report to the Chamber as promised earlier afterwards. We will be discussing EMU ourselves later this year. Then we will also come to the Chamber with further information in the context of discussions which may take place towards December. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1252 calls for alternatives to the European Commission's integration plans. I'm just referring to the first term. I have absolutely no need for that. We're already doing this. It is the proposals that the Netherlands has also made. I think that is a stronger position of the Netherlands than when we are going to respond in detail to proposals from others. The motion in part No. I think that 1253 is superfluous because of the answer I gave Mr Van Ojik. I refer to answer No. 23 of the written consultation on the RAZ. That is what our views on all kinds of proposals are very comprehensive. Perhaps I could ask Mr Van Ojik to send me offline where he still sees holes. I want to discourage the motion because I don't know what else to do. If he still has a lack of information on parts, we can try to provide it immediately. I assure him that information will be provided in the European Council's reports where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u303	Two sentences, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u304	The playing field changes every day. I'm asking the Prime Minister to look at this openly. This is a request to speak again between the two forthcoming European summits about this very important discussion. It's no more, but it's no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u305	I can only respond once to the White Paper and everything in it. We have done so in all kinds of letters and documents to the Chamber. What we can do is try to put that together, but that does not make it new lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u306	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u307	What appealed to me was the idea that we do not necessarily have to choose one of those five scenarios. We want to know how the Netherlands positions itself in this so important debate in relation to those five scenarios. That's what the motion requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u308	That is more than we have done so far, and I would like to argue against it. You want to be effective in that discussion as the Netherlands. People are going to see what we're doing. Do we come up with our own proposals or with very extensive responses to others' proposals? My experience is that the second is absolutely less effective than the first. People are gonna see what you don't agree with. I see I'm convincing Mr. Van Ojik. I would ask him to look into what we have said so far to give him the opportunity to ask for further information. Then we can try to serve him on that. Once again, a new comprehensive response to all the European Commission's proposals weakens the negotiating position of our own proposals. That's what I really want to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u309	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u310	The motion in part No. 1254 calls on us to work towards agreements on tax competition within the EU. The Court has now given a negative opinion of subsidiarity on the Commission's latest tax proposals. I am sympathetic to avoiding unfair practices. There's no discussion about that. This is mainly a matter of national competence and also scope for international competition between countries. These differences are not necessarily problematic. On the basis of these considerations, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. I also advise against 1255 referring to the debate. I do not agree with the statement that there is further erosion of sovereignty, freedom and prosperity. I am referring to the statement that I made earlier in the debate, which is embedded in it by cooperation in the EU Netherlands. This in itself leads to more security, more economic prosperity and shared values. In dissuade the motion in part No. 1256 because, as far as we are concerned, Bratislava's strategic agenda and roadmap are leading. The motion in part No. 1257 on the second stage of negotiations is really completely contrary to our strategy. I'm telling you the truth. Mr Bishop and I do not agree. I think it is very important that we keep the unity. In December there will be a new weighing moment to see if there is any efficient progress. Perhaps I could ask Mr Bishop to hold this motion until the debate on the December European Council in order to see if the European Union, in a reasonable manner, has come to a position with the British, hopefully the 27, together with the British. Perhaps then he could consider re-table the motion. I'd like to dissuade her right now. What in the motion to part No. 1258 is requested, of course, all have already done: to make an overview of everything that needs to be decided internationally and not internationally. This calls for a completely new subsidiarity exercise. I don't think that makes any sense, so I'd like to move the motion in part no. 1258.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u311	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-12-tweedekamer-9.u312	It is customary for us to vote on the European summit after a debate. We're gonna do that in five minutes.
