ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the VAO Judicial Youth. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks. And, of course, I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Just before the summer recess we talked about the pilot gardens Small-scale amenities in Amsterdam, Groningen and Nijmegen. Young people who have been taken into remand can stay there below a relatively low level of security. This enables them to continue to go to school, work and keep in close contact with their parents. That's a chance they'll stay on the right track after they've been punished. I would particularly like to talk here today about the Amsterdam Small-Scale Provision. Amsterdam does not have a judicial youth establishment, which would have a major impact on the re-socialisation of young people who have gone wrong. The funding of this project will expire on 1 December 2018. Money for 2018 may be provided for in the budget, but we will only vote on it in December, when the funding will end just before that. Then we run the risk that the surgery did succeed, but the patient died. Hence my request for this VAO. I would very much like us to be able to clarify Amsterdam already today, so that the staff do not have to look for other work and the accumulated expertise does not disappear, because rebuilding a team only takes a great deal of time and energy, and it is better to stop it in the fight against the recurrence of these young people. That is why I would like to table the next motion, which I shall now read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Small-Scale Provision in Amsterdam contributes successfully to a secure society by receiving and accompanying young people during their pre-trial detention;]] [[whereas it is not until later this year that a decision is taken on the continuation of the project, which means that there is a significant risk that the expertise acquired will be lost;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Small-Scale Supply Amsterdam will continue in the year 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28741-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks on the pilot with the Small-Scale Supply in Amsterdam. The results are positive, but the provision still threatens to have to close its doors. We too are in favour of continuing this small-scale shelter, which works to everyone's satisfaction. That is why I warmly endorsed the motion by Mr GroenLinks. We have also discussed the importance of recovery law in general. It is particularly important for young people to put the pedagogical approach first, to give them an insight into the consequences for others and to see what they can recover from what they have done. This is important for the victims and to avoid repetition. That is why, on behalf of the Labour Party and GroenLinks, I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas juvenile criminal law should take a pedagogical approach, with the need to enable minors to learn from their mistakes and to recover as much as possible from what has gone wrong, which is also very important for the victims;]] [[noting that several successful pilots have taken place, but are not yet accessible to all minors and young people and have not yet been given a permanent place in juvenile criminal law;]] [[Calls on the Government to give the right of recovery a permanent place within the neighbourhood approach of the police, the ZSM way of working and the judicial justice system;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the provision of information to minors and parents on the possibilities of mediation interviews or recovery rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28741-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'm reopening the meeting. The Minister for Legal Protection has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. This is the continuation of a consultation that has still taken place with my predecessor. I understand that this was a good consultation, to see what you can do about judicial sanctions against young people. That is still very organized along lines of a kind of "one size fits all," while sometimes it is better to differentiate a bit when you look at diagnostics and at the application of measures but also at the possibilities for reintegration. Hence the three test gardens that have been started. They also produce first good results. In addition, my predecessor has always said: on the one hand, we need to see what we can do about extension. It might be a shame to do some kind of capital destruction by stopping coûte que coûte with something that is good and what is a pilot, while the experiences are good. On the other hand, you also have to look closely at the viability of these test areas. Two of them have a lot of doubts, but that is not the case with Amsterdam. So I think we can safely say here that Amsterdam can be continued at least before 2018, when we will have to have a moment in 2018 to have the more fundamental discussion on whether we would like to move on to a system change. Because if you really want to guarantee this kind of thing for the long term, you're gonna have to change laws and regulations. To make a long story short, I am well off with Mrs Buitenweg's motion and associates. I could even take over if that's okay with you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Is there no objection to that with the other members? That's the case. Then we'll take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	Then there is Mr Van Nispen's speech. That is also very appealing to me: especially among young people, look at what you can do about reparation law. In the coalition agreement we have also devoted a number of sentences to this. Maybe I could ask you to hold this motion. I think it is a little premature and a little too short to say right now that we are going to do this there and there. If you give me the time to think about how I would like to proceed with this task, which I have been given in the coalition agreement, I will return to it with a letter. I think we can do that in a month or three. Then maybe we can talk about that further. If you still need to table this motion, you can, but at least you can give me a moment to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you would like to give Mr Van Nispen the floor first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Van Nispen or Mrs Van Toorenburg? Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am very pleased that the Minister is giving a letter to the Chamber to indicate how he intends to implement this. Can I also ask the Minister to do it fairly widely? We're hearing about recovery rights. We also hear about perspective on recovery law, which is much more than giving and taking but generously trying to accommodate a victim. It's kind of like some kind of recovery right now and then hijacking that beautiful idea. I would be sorry to hear that, as if recovery law should replace criminal law. If the Minister is willing to make a broad commitment, I am very happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	I can promise. This has a lot to do with victim policy and victim care. There's also a monitor coming your way for Christmas. I'm just looking for a good time when I can connect those parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thanks to the Minister's words, I can indeed hold the motion. I think that's a good idea. But I would like to ask a question that follows on from this. It has to do with the budget for 2018. We are going to deal with that budget, of course. This motion was separate from that; I deliberately did not mix it with it. But we did make money available in the budget last year for mediation in criminal law. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether it is necessary for the Chamber to come forward with a proposal to do the same again for next year, or whether the Minister wants to come forward with a letter on mediation in criminal law and the 1.5 million allocated to it by the Chamber for this year, regardless of the letter in three months' time with a broad view of the whole problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	It seems to me that there is a demand for information that is necessary for the proper handling of the budget. You are right to ask: what exactly is the situation and how is it arranged for 2018? I must remain guilty of that answer for a moment, but I will send the Chamber a letter on it for the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you very much. The motion-Buitenweg c.s. in piece No. So 36 has been taken over and we are not voting on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	After the suspension we continue with the General Financial Reviews.
