ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the debate on the King's budget (I) and the general affairs budget (III A to C). I would like to welcome the Prime Minister in section K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u2	I give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The monarchy has once again proved its strength. It has made it clear once again that it is a vital institution. The monarchy is able to renew itself now that the crown has ended up on the head of the heir. This is actually all I have to say about the SP. The rest of my text is dedicated to another monarchy in the Netherlands, the House of Orange. Not the house of Red, but the house of Orange. Sorry, Ronald. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Freedom is and remains a warm supporter of the monarchy in the Netherlands. Not only the SP, but also the Netherlands owes much to succession. The House of Orange connects us with the birth-hour of our nation, when our people stood up against the European superstate of that moment, the Habsburg Empire. Willem van Oranje fought for the independence of the Netherlands. He worked for the unity of the Northern and Southern Netherlands. His ideal was the Pacification of Ghent, in which the unity of Flanders and the Netherlands is defined, a shared future and a shared homeland. The Act of Abandonment is also a document of great historical importance, adopted by our own States-General and written by a Fleming, Jan van Asseliers. The States-General were already on the run, no longer in Bruges, where we were born, nor in Brussels, where we came to full maturity on the side of Willem van Oranje, but here in The Hague. Our monarchy reminds us of this history and of our independence, our sovereignty and our struggle against the European superstate, namely the Eighty Years' War. Therefore King Willem-Alexander swore a sacred oath. I quote: 'I swear I will defend the independence and territory of the Kingdom with all my wealth'. We must not bring the king into an impossible state by handing over power to Brussels. After all, then we force the king to violate his oath and we must not be so cruel. A true monarchist is therefore against the EU. Mr Schulz has once again made clear what the big plan is: the United States of Europe. We shouldn't want that with each other. Mr. Chairman. The king is doing a great job and, if I may say so, is a damn nice guy. Sometimes I get to represent this beautiful parliament in a wreath or something else official and then I have the privilege of running into the king from time to time. You can make fun of him. I would like to repeat some of his jokes here, but the secret of Huis ten Bosch undoubtedly forbids me from doing so. The king is characterized by a great sense of humor and we can be happy with it all. I hope that in the new Chamber building we will move first and then we will come back again and pay more attention to our history, to our legacy and to where we come from. All visitors should be able to learn about our birth papers, the Act of Abandonment, the Pacification of Ghent and the Union of Utrecht. It would be wonderful if such documents and many more documents, for example the founding act of the VOC from 1602, could all be seen when we return to our humble abode in about eight years' time. Mr. Chairman. Today the news came that the Netherlands is accelerating to 18.4 million inhabitants. This is entirely due to mass immigration and open border ideology. While President Trump was quite right yesterday to say 'a nation without borders is no nation', a country without borders is not a country, our Brussels bosses are fully committed to the agenda. In any case, we will become a minority in our own country. That's what they call "diversity." The funny thing is that the head of state took a fierce stand against overpopulation, for example Queen Juliana in 1948. The Netherlands had 10 million inhabitants. In the Throne speech, the Majesty then said: "The strong population growth and the limitedness of the available land continue to demand strong promotion of emigration." 1949: 10 million inhabitants. In other words, Juliana said: do you want more or less Dutch? She then made it clear what she wanted, namely less, less. Because of this overcrowding hundreds of thousands of Dutch people were encouraged to leave the country, with a piss-off premium. In 1952, in Canada, Juliana talked about the need for emigration as "a means of dealing with the overpopulation." In 1979 Queen Juliana spoke in the sermon of the throne the historical words: "Our country is full, partly overcrowded. In Dutch society, the number of people of foreign language and culture is rapidly increasing. This creates problems especially in the big cities." In short, our head of state then knew the logic: open borders mean more people and more problems. So the head of state knew very well what was going on in the Netherlands, and the current head of state, King Willem Alexander, knows that very well. He has spoken on several occasions about the problems in the old neighbourhoods where people are dealing with mass immigration. And in the christmas speech he spoke the very beautiful words: "We hear words of hatred passed on from generation to generation, which seem to have no chance of reconciling sounds of goodwill." I may be wrong, but I think it's about Islam. Unfortunately, King Willem Alexander sometimes fails in this area, for example when he goes to Italy and speaks his admiration for people who work for the ferry services, the taxi services, to bring people from Africa to mainland Europe. They are then framed as saviors, while they pick up hundreds of meters off the coast of Africa and put Africans on land here. In Moltivolti, a Centre for Cultural Entrepreneurship and Meeting, King Alexander and Queen Máxima speak with administrators, aid workers and volunteers involved in their work with the reception of migrants, and with migrants themselves. Back in the day, we sent the Navy to turn the invasion around, and now the King admires the troops of that invasion. In a speech the king praised the so-called saviors; grazie mille, he said. King Willem Alexander is proud of the way the Netherlands has received refugees in 2015. That's what he says in a conversation with an Italian newspaper. According to the king, the Netherlands is a textbook example of a multicultural society, and he emphasizes once again that the Netherlands has been sheltering people from all over the world for centuries. Well, the ruling class has been doing so for 40 years now: to justify mass immigration and Islamization by appealing to age-old tolerance. It is in stark contrast to what Queen Juliana said: "our land is full, partly overcrowded." Why was the head of state cheerful in 1950 with 10 million inhabitants among the Dutch who left? And why is the head of state now cheering at an influx of 18 million people? The government must stand up for the dignity of the office of our Head of State and not let him be a toy of the politically correct delusion of the day, I say. Traditionally, and then I go back to the eighteenth century, the Oranges are always on the side of the people and across from the elite. It would be nice if that time came back. The Soros/Merkel agenda of population and Islamization is pumped into society with full force, and the king knows what the fork is like. It would be nice if the king sided with the people. Finally, that is the right of existence and the legitimacy of the monarchy. In October 2016, the king visited Amsterdam. Together with the mayor, he was in the Bijlmer. We don't know exactly how and what was said, but the mayor told us that Black Piet is going to be abolished. It would have been nice if the king had defended Black Piet at that time, but unfortunately he didn't. He left a great opportunity to defend our traditions, and the fight against Black Piet is part of a war against our culture and against our traditions. If Black Piet falls, the politically correct hyenas will only become more motivated to attack all the symbols of our culture: our flag, our statues, our street names, our Christmas party, our national anthem, our quadruple, our Dutch language: everything will be labeled as non-inclusive and not of diversity. You bet one day it will be the royal family's turn, and it would be nice if we could say: the royal family has always stood before our traditions. Mr. Chairman. In recent years we have talked a lot about things like the renovation of Huis Ten Bosch and the Green Draeck. That's a little bit of chop-chop sometimes. I would simply suggest that it is the Prime Minister's responsibility to bring all these matters to a successful conclusion. I wonder if any further progress has been made on this point. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u5	Thank you, Mr President. You know the VVD as a party that always guards that taxpayers' money is carefully handled. The same applies to the two budgets now before us, the general affairs budgets and the King's budget. In the case of the financing of the Royal House, we unanimously adopted the Royal House Financial Statute Act a few years ago. As far as I am concerned, as far as my group is concerned, we have done so in order to settle the discussion and to prevent us from doing something about it every year, which is a bit my impression when I look at the Acts, a kind of ritual dance about income and funding. We, as a party, would simply like to be proud of that special family that represents us and that also connects us. We would also like to express that pride. Mr. Chairman. Because that is exactly what this family is doing: connecting our society. I am convinced that a visit by the King and the Queen will impress the person who happens to it. A feast when King's Day connects. It brings old-fashioned Dutch cosiness to the forefront for another day. It makes us feel proud Dutch. We'll get our orange stuff out of the closet. We clean out our attic and then sell the contents on the street. We have a beer in the city with our friends and family. Entrepreneurs who go out with the king, who go on trade mission, to formulate it chic, see that the king also connects people there. It opens doors, and that's literally valuable. And yes, then I am also real: a king lives in a palace and the queen has a lot of representative tasks to do, and that includes a beautiful dress, because she is photographed and filmed all day long. In short, the situation of kingship is different from that of yours and mine. Let us not forget that we are demanding a lifelong commitment from this family. Mr. Chairman. The VVD would therefore also like us not to put our Royal House past an Excelsheet every year. I also hope it's different this year, but I'd be surprised. At least I'll wait and see. Because if I make one thing out of Professor Van Baalen's thorough report, it is that the discussion about the King's finances is as old as the Kingdom itself. I await the progress of the debate in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put a number of questions to the Prime Minister on various issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u6	Before you do that, Mr Van Raak has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u7	There's stuff every year. Why is that? Does Mr Van Oosten, for example, think that the government should carry out motions, statements by the House of Representatives? Can Mr Van Oosten understand that it leads to fuss if the Prime Minister refuses to implement statements, decisions of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u8	By the way, I didn't use the word "things." I would prefer to use the word 'discussion' when it comes to the discussion we are having here in this Chamber, especially when you relate it to the family we are talking about. But apart from that, I am sure that you are referring to a motion from your own hand through the chairman. I'm sure you'll take that into account in your speech. Let's hear what the Prime Minister has to say. For me, it is relevant that a few years ago, together with you, we passed a law in which the income of the persons concerned is the head of state. As far as I am concerned, we should act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u9	All Dutch people have to pay taxes, including all of us, but the members of the Royal House are exempt from a lot of taxes. It is true: in October 2015, the House of Representatives adopted a motion from me, Mr Recourt and Mr Pechtold asking the government to come up with proposals on how to remove these tax exemptions. Then who is it? If a motion has been passed, is it up to us that there is discussion, or is it up to the Prime Minister, who has been refusing to carry out that motion for two years? Well, then it makes sense for you to have a discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u10	It's not for me to decide who's to blame for the discussion. I would very much like us not to discuss it, because I do not think the discussion is useful. That law on which the income of the King, the head of state, is based, we have consciously adopted with each other. We've all supported them. As far as I am concerned, we will now act on that and it would be much more useful and valuable if we were to say: let us be proud, and dare to say so here too, to that family that connects us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u12	Being proud also means that Parliament can simply do its job. If this parliament makes a ruling, it will apply to all Dutch people. If this parliament makes a ruling, does it apply to the King?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u13	Mr Van Raak refers to his 2015 motion on the cancellation of the King's tax exemption. I have noticed what I have noticed. It is up to the Prime Minister to respond. You ask me if I find it strange that there is an annual debate on this issue. I didn't mention the guilt question. I merely expressed the hope that I would prefer that there should be no such discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u14	You refer to the financial statute. You have also said something about taxation, but you know that there is no tax in the financial statute at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u15	I refer to the Law Financial Statute of the Royal House, which regulates the income of the King. We also know that the King's income is paid according to the tax system as it is paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u16	You're not going to answer my question. It regulates income, but it does not regulate taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u19	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to put three more questions to the Prime Minister. Those questions are rather diverse in terms of subjects, as I said. My first question concerns the choice of foreign state visits. How do these actually come about? Who decides? What are the interests involved? Can the Prime Minister explain some of this to me? The second question concerns the temporary seat on the UN Security Council. The explanatory statement of the General Affairs budget states that it contributes to international peace and security. What role does the Prime Minister see for himself in this regard? How was the Dutch agenda set? How is the Dutch agenda determined? Finally, my third question. The new Act on Intelligence and Security Services, which will enter into force in 2018, also establishes the Review Committee on Betting Powers. The Prime Minister shall be responsible for the management of the Review Committee. Can the Prime Minister promise me that this committee will have sufficient resources at its disposal to carry out its duties properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I'd like to take you briefly into my first experience with the royal family. My father had transferred a sum of money to my grandfather in Turkey for medical and medical expenses. The amount of money, however, did not reach my grandfather. After a search of five months, the money was found to linger somewhere between the Netherlands and Turkey. My mother had heard Queen Juliana on TV several times saying that she was a queen of all Dutchmen. So I had to write a letter to the Queen. With the healthy reluctance of a teenager I have written a letter, a very pathetic note, I have to say about the missing money for my sick grandfather, who lived 4,000 kilometers away. Within two weeks, a very chic envelope fell on the mat. It's the most beautiful I've ever seen. The Queen wrote that she thought it was important to have it examined. A week later, the money arrived at my grandfather's. You will understand that at the time this made a great impression on me as a young girl. Mr. Chairman. Precisely for the conduct of society, the kingship must also be modernised. This means that the large duty-free regime is no longer present, that more openness is needed about the royal family's finances and that, for example, a larger part of the Royal House Archives is made public. Recently we received the report from the Van Baalen Committee. In this way, I would like to thank the committee for the extensive and interesting work it has done. The report shows that no secret tax deals have been made. That is, of course, good news in itself. However, it emerged that there is still room for improvement in the transparency of the financing of the Head of State. I'd like to hear if the Prime Minister agrees with me. There has also been a lot of discussion for a long time about whether the King and his immediate relatives should simply pay taxes, like all the other Dutch. The Prime Minister says over and over that he doesn't think this is a good idea. Two years ago, a motion on this matter was passed in the Chamber, but the Prime Minister still does not want to implement this motion. Let us, as this Prime Minister himself likes to do, take a step-by-step approach and focus on the inheritance and gift tax. Doesn't the Prime Minister really think it's crazy that when the King wants to give a bag of money or a house to a cousin or a good friend, for example, there's no way of paying taxes on it? An investigation earlier this year showed that almost two thirds of the Dutch think that the King should simply pay taxes. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. There were also reports in the news about donations in the royal family. There was also a fuss about the fact that Prince Bernhard Jr. owns a lot of real estate in Amsterdam. What influence do these messages have on the King's position as head of state? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the opening of the royal palaces. In recent years, Noordeinde Palace has been open to the public for a short time. That was a great success; the tickets were up in no time. GroenLinks would like palaces that are in public possession to be as accessible as possible. This is already happening in many other countries. You can also visit the Palace on Dam Square for example. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he is prepared to see if, for example, Noordeinde Palace can be opened more often. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the relationship between the government and the Chamber. Since 1998 we have known the so-called "ukaze-Kok." At the beginning of his presidency, the Prime Minister said he wanted to deal with the Chamber in a relaxed manner. Would it not therefore be appropriate to make it possible for MPs and civil servants to have direct contact on actual questions? This happens in the municipalities, for example. Allowing the Court's actual questions to officials means that fewer written questions need to be submitted. This will save you the cost again. Of course, my group understands that questions about policy ideas always go through the rulers. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this. Then there are the parliamentary questions. How is the new cabinet going to ensure that the information requested by the Chamber ends up in the Chamber in good time and in full? Finally, a question on the agenda of the executives. It was previously agreed that public agendas would be announced in time through the ministries' websites. How's that going? How does this new cabinet intend to deliver on this promise? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u22	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The budget is about the costs of the Royal House and not about the value of the Royal House for the Netherlands. The CDA Group greatly appreciates King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima and how they fulfil their duties. The way they give substance to kingship forces respect. The king himself summarizes his task in three words: binding, representing and encouraging. This year, for example, was reflected in the royal visit to Sint-Maarten after the devastating hurricane Irma. Being present in such situations is of the utmost importance. Partly for this reason, the CDA still finds it unimaginable that there are still people in this Chamber who would no longer want to criminalize the deliberate insult of the King and the royal family. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he still agrees with the CDA Group. The new value of the King's budget is usually determined by what is not in it. Thanks to last year's news, we now have a detailed report from the Van Baalen Committee on the establishment of the Royal House Financial Statute Act. This year there is nothing in the budget about the restoration of Palace Huis ten Bosch. The extracomptable annex also does not mention the rising cost of the restoration. In November, Secretary of State Knops informed the Chamber that the restoration would cost 4.1 million more than the estimated 59 million, and that was already an adjustment. I do not have the initial budget of 35 million. For other projects in the past there were also more costs, for example at the Rijksmuseum, at Boerhaave in Leiden and at the Yachthuis Sint Hubertus on the Hoge Veluwe. When we think about the restoration of the Binnenhof itself, we hold on to our hearts a bit. Most of the general affairs budget concerns the Public and Communication Service. The evaluations of the information campaigns are not shocking, indeed. I do have two questions for the Prime Minister. The evaluations show that young people are becoming increasingly difficult to reach. How is this problem being addressed? I miss a look ahead to next year in the budget. You'd expect that. What are the public and communication resources for next year when it comes to campaigns? The coalition agreement states that we invest in making our history more visible and make it as accessible as possible to historic places in the country that tell the story of our history. Next year, Leeuwarden will be the cultural capital of Europe. In Leeuwarden the story of the Frisian Nassaus, the stadholder family of which our king descends. I raised my light with the father of our group chairman, who wrote a booklet about the Great Church of Jacobijnerkerk and the Frisian Nassau. The tomb monument of the Frisian Nassau was destroyed in 1795. The story of our history also has some black pages, as we know. But in 1948 the choir of the Jacobijnerkerk was refurbished as a memorial for the Frisian Nassau, as a tribute of the Frisian people to Queen Wilhelmina. In addition, the Stadhouderlijk Hof, the Princessehof and the statue of Us Heit testify to the historical connection of the Oranges with Friesland. Historical places speak to the imagination. Palaces speak to the imagination. I would remind you of the great interest in the opening of Soestdijk Palace and in the opening of the House of Bosch Palace Orange Room. This summer the audience could also visit the Noordeinde Palace and the Royal Stables. Can the Prime Minister promise that the opening of Noordeinde Palace will continue, if possible on a more generous scale? Mr. Chairman. Next year, the new Intelligence and Security Services Act will enter into force. The law provides for the modernisation of powers and also for the strengthening of the monitoring of the implementation of those powers. The establishment of the Review Committee on Betting Powers has been delayed. The Chamber is currently working on the appointments. The support of the committee should also be ready in the near future. How far is General Affairs with the Secretariat? That must be up and running and Home Affairs and General Affairs must prepare an early evaluation, as agreed in the coalition agreement. I'd like to get the state of play from the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u25	The JOVD once invited me to a debate on socialism. That's where I said the SP is a people's party for freedom and democracy. A careful young liberal then raised his finger and said: but that is the VVD already? That led to an interesting discussion. Our freedom and democracy are not in good hands with the VVD, at least not with this Prime Minister. Freedom is the absence of fear to think, to believe, to speak. But freedom starts with the certainty that you have a good education, a decent job and an adequate income and that you can count on support when you get unemployed, sick or old. It is about confidence that politicians are not sitting here for the millionaires and the multinationals. The point is that ordinary people see that we recognise their concerns and their problems. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the free market does not automatically lead to a free society? Does the Prime Minister see how his policy of self-responsibility has increased the division? Does the Prime Minister also see that democracy is much more than a phone call from Shell or a gift to Unilever? A country can only be free if people can trust each other, if citizens can rely on the bankers who manage our money, if directors think not only of themselves but of the general interest, and if the Prime Minister does not still push through his own yes if people say no. At the JOVD I had a very interesting debate on this. That should be possible with this Prime Minister, who is a former JOVD member, today as well. What is this Prime Minister's view of the people, freedom and democracy? What role does the people play in this democracy? Whose democracy is it? This question is also topical at a time when the Prime Minister is desperately struggling with the referendum. You can give the people a right, as I wish, or you can deny people a democratic right, as the Prime Minister wants. But what can't be is that you give voters a vote and then ignore the outcome ray. This leads to anger and frustration among people and confirms the idea that you can vote whatever you want, but that they do exactly what they want in The Hague. In doing so, this Prime Minister is undermining a foundation under our democracy. What is not possible at all is to abolish a democratic right without giving the people a say in it. A Prime Minister who is so eager to push the law through his own will is not a democratic one, but a dictatorial one. I ask the Prime Minister to explain here today exactly what legal trick he has invented to put the population out of play. He's kind of staring at me, but I'm really looking forward to his answer. The Prime Minister made it more logical that people can no longer vote on the abolition of the referendum, because the government is against the referendum. I thought that was an interesting idea: the voter doesn't have to have an opinion on anything anymore, because the cabinet already has an opinion. I do not see how that makes sense, at least not in a democracy, but the Prime Minister may try again to explain this tonight. I also sometimes hear that the referendum is not good because things are too complicated because people don't get it. I've been walking around the Binnenhof for almost fifteen years now and I've learned one thing: people in high positions aren't always there because they all get it so well. If we had had a referendum on the euro, on the enlargement of the European Union, or on the abolition of supervision of the financial sector, we would not have had an economic crisis at all. If only the Prime Minister had listened to the citizens rather than the bankers, our country would have been much better off now. Our democracy does not belong to Shell, nor to Unilever, nor to officials in Brussels, nor to officials in Frankfurt. Our democracy does not belong to the Cabinet or this Chamber either. Our democracy belongs to the electorate. They must always have the last word. We now have a cabinet with former employees of Shell and Unilever, with consultants and top officials. And we have a Prime Minister who is connected to the international corporate lobby and willing to restrict our national democracy for them. That is precisely why it is important to have a referendum in our country, as a democratic counterweight to the invisible and uncontrollable power of consultants and lobbyists. This country needs a referendum, also in order to protect our democracy from this Prime Minister. That country is also a community, to which everyone must contribute according to their own strength. In our tax haven, multinationals don't have to. They can simply call the Tax Office and indicate how much they are willing or unwilling to pay. Members of the Royal House do not pay taxes on their fees at all. The Second Chamber has adopted a motion of the SP, co-signed by Mr Pechtold, to change that. But the Prime Minister refuses to execute the ruling of the Chamber. That is why I will ask the Chamber again today for a ruling to remove the tax advantages of the Royal House. I see that my old comrade, Mr Pechtold, is unfortunately not here today, but we have a good replacement and I trust he will continue to support us in our common struggle. I also have a question about the level of the fees of the members of the Royal House. The King gets €902,000 clean in wages without having to pay taxes. Princess Máxima gets another €358,000. Princess Beatrix also gets €510,000, all tax-free. In addition to this 1.77 million in income, they also receive a further 6.38 million in compensation for staff and other family expenses, all of which are duty-free. When Princess Amalia turns 18, she gets €268,000 in income and €125,000 for her household. That's 170 times as much as an age group that works for the minimum wage. The Prime Minister himself gets €181.000 and has to pay a decent tax on this. Does the Prime Minister share my view that this gap between the Prime Minister and the King is very large? I also ask him: why is the ministerial salary not a good standard for the members of the Royal House? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u26	Mr. Chairman. After the Prime Minister himself kicked off with the declaration of government, he was also allowed to defend his own budgets this last week, those of General Affairs and those of the King. Now you do not have to be a monarchist to look with satisfaction at the way in which King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima fulfil their role. For example, the image of the king who supported the sick mayor of Amsterdam throughout the country caused emotion. Moments like this emphasize the binding force of kingship. Meanwhile, the Queen has been working for years as a special envoy of the United Nations for microcredit, and she has also put the Dutch brand firmly on the map. Mr. Chairman. We have already been able to admire the diversity of the Prime Minister in recent years. In this cabinet period, his mission is to connect conservatively and progressively, to be prime minister for all Dutch, ordinary and unusual. And that is necessary, given the social contradictions. In Brussels, he is now one of the longest-standing European Heads of Government. There is even talk of the "Trio Macro, Merkel and Mark." For the time being, this will only happen at the Dutch embassy, but I believe that this will not take long, because at European level too, he will need all his communicative skills to implement the ambitious agenda of this cabinet. Indeed, as the Prime Minister said in this Chamber last week, this cabinet advocates further integration in the area of the internal market, migration, external borders, security, defence, energy and, of course, the climate. Because with this coalition agreement, the author of the green-right manifesto of an optimist can finally regain his heart. Mr. Chairman. Let me also mention something in which I think that the Netherlands is still inadequate. I ask the Prime Minister to take this up, after all, it is 2017, almost 2018. Thanks to social media, little is still secret. That is how we are here, in this room, just during a debate live witness when colleague Baudet is running in Amsterdam. And during the recess we get snapshots from the Prime Minister on Instagram when he eats red fruit with Antoinette from Rotterdam, to give an example. I would also like to see this openness in the weekly practice of our administration. Unfortunately, the agenda of the Council of Ministers remains secret for 25 years in principle. Voters, Chambers and journalists are therefore dependent on the press conference and separate press releases to find out what is being discussed every week during that important meeting. It's gotta be better. In Belgium, for example. In this case, I say in the direction of the Prime Minister, I would like to go after Belgium. That is where the agenda is published every Friday morning and there will be a list of decisions at the end. And Belgium is not the only country, an agenda or decision list is published in Albania, Austria and Sweden. We are also right to ask for transparency from the European Union. I propose that we in the Netherlands also make the ministerial agenda public, at least that it should become the norm, because everyone understands that some points still have to be decided. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take care of this? Mr. Chairman. That disclosure brings me to the royal finances; they were already mentioned. It is a recurring theme that keeps the moods occupied. We recently received the historical investigation into the alleged tax deal of the Royal House. I would also like to thank the researchers for their enlightening work, a well-read report which, in my opinion, also served as an excellent report for the new spokesmen. I see nodding... It is a good thing that these backgrounds have been set out again, especially since the fees as set out in the current law are directly derived from, or, if you like, successors of, the 1972 amounts. Nevertheless, it will never be a normal budget. The Prime Minister was right to say that at his press conference. In the 1960s, for example, it appeared that it was difficult to find a "digit basis," as the committee calls it, and at the time historical expenditure was looked at, it was counted from a certain level of standing and estimates were made to the best of our knowledge. That's as far as we could get. I have only two questions about this. First of all... The Van Baalen Committee describes that the members of the Royal House would make 10% of the non-declarable costs that was then 200,000 guilders anyway, even if they had no monarchal duties. Unfortunately, the committee was unable to find out where it landed in the budget. Do you think the Prime Minister knows about this? Secondly, a smaller request, if this search is a little too big. In the archives that were made public last year, I read that three quarters of the expenditure on smoke articles can be declared by the Royal House as "functional." Now it is not entirely clear from those documents whether it was just a proposal or whether it has become the final agreement. But since the kingship is top sport, I do not think we should grant state subsidies for cigarettes. I'd like a confirmation from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u27	I also have a question for Mr Sneller. In 2015, the Chamber adopted a motion from me: calls on the Government to make a proposal on how the tax exemptions of the King, the Queen and the former Queen can be undone (34300-I, no. 5). This motion has been co-signed by my many years of war buddy Pechtold. Unfortunately, he's not here today, but we do have Mr. Faster. How are we going to get the Prime Minister to put this motion into effect for once? You're in a position now; you're not on the sidelines. You're behind the wheel. So how are we gonna do this tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u28	How Mr Van Raak is going to deal with it is entirely up to Mr Van Raak. I have looked at the outcome of that motion and I see that a number of parties, CDA, VVD, ChristenUnion, SGP, 50PLUS, together, voted against that motion more than a third of the Chamber. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're out of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u29	I think that's a bit of a weird move. I tabled a motion in 2015 asking the government to make a proposal, so the government must come forward with a proposal to remove the tax exemptions for the Royal House. That's what I did with my long-time warrior Alexander Pechtold. The only thing we need to do here today is, in my view, to get that gentleman, our Prime Minister, to come up with a proposal on how to remove these tax exemptions. If that proposal then comes to the Chamber, we are going to discuss it in detail, but I am asking D66 today how we can express this motion, this joint struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u30	Mr Van Raak also knows that when that bill comes in the end, it must be adopted by a two-thirds majority in order to be made law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u31	I don't have a ball like that. Mr Sneller has a strange political sphere that I do not have. I don't know what the proportions will be in the years to come. I certainly don't know what the situation in the House of Representatives is after the next election. D66 seems to have a good look-through, but I don't know what the outcome of the next election is. So I ask D66 quite simply whether we are going to work together tonight to ensure that our motion is carried out by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u32	The answer remains that if that is for the stage, because there is no two-thirds majority here, I am not involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u33	I welcome this debate for a colleague, but I am surprised to see it. For many years Mr Pechtold, together with Mr Recourt of the PvdA and Mr Van Raak of the SP, has made this a very important point. In my opinion, the coalition agreement does not state that another agreement has been reached on this matter. Or have I not read the coalition agreement correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u34	Mr Recourt joined that initiative a little late, but that is true. There is nothing in the coalition agreement, but you know the Constitution and I know the Constitution. It states that a two-thirds majority is required for those laws. There isn't one. Then let's not put any energy into it if that's just for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u35	Yes. I'm used to politicians taking a stand on something they find and then going to see how they make it happen. D66, with your group leader Mr Pechtold in the lead, has always made a big point of this in the general affairs budgets and the King. He went to look for majorities. There was no two-thirds majority then either. Now, on the basis of a procedural argument, the D66 Group takes a totally opposite position. That's very strange, isn't it? What is the real substantive reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u36	I have just given it to Mr Nijboer. I think there's a clear result. If there is more than two thirds of support, I am very willing to look at it again. Right now I don't see it and I don't put any energy in it, because we know it's a dead end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u37	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u38	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u39	That rash is nowhere. No motion has yet been tabled, it has not yet been voted on. Mr Sneller is only taking on a few things. A few parties aren't even in it and he's already putting down the flag! Their own motions and the D66's own main point in the budgetary procedure are already placed in the rough before the debate begins. Extremely curious and very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u40	Mr Nijboer can be very indignant, but I think we have already heard a number of spokesmen who do not make any representations to take a different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u41	I have gathered Mr Pechtold's input from the last few years. The core of his input has always been transparency, but also tackling the King's tax exemption. He has asked several times why, including the expenses. You don't say a word about it. Is that line all loose now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u42	No, I think I have just said a few words about this to Mr Van Raak and Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u43	Well, that "something" is you're going to sit on majors. I am asking for a very clear answer to my question as to whether that line has been abandoned or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u44	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u45	"No" means that D66 still stands for transparency and for paying taxes on the King's income.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u46	I still understand the principle behind that motion. What you said before about transparency depends on what you mean, because Mr Pechtold has also been reasonably nuanced in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u47	So you're still in favour of the motion's thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u48	I understand the principle that duty-free rates could logically also be lifted. I understand why that motion was tabled. I can only count, and I have also heard that this is perhaps something for another time, that there are procedural objections and that there are administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u50	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the renovation of Huis ten Bosch. It was mentioned before. Almost every weekend I come by during my run through the Haagse Bos and it also looks like a whole operation from the other side of the gate with all those vans and scaffolding. It will undoubtedly be very nice, but Mr Van der Molen said it: it is not a beautiful story. In 2014, it was reported that it would cost 35 million or at least no more. A year later, this image was adjusted to 59 million and last week Secretary of State Knops reported that it was not enough either. The counter stands at 63.1 million for the time being. How is this possible? That's how I ask the Prime Minister. I understand very well that this is not an everyday renovation, but this process is not good for confidence, especially since I do not understand that there can be full openness about the details. That's why I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's assessment. Is this an incident? Is this a breach of confidentiality, which makes public procurement difficult? Or does the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf have insufficient expertise to properly prepare and guide these types of projects? And what does this mean for other projects, such as that of the Binnenhof? My group is concerned about this and it is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State has an external investigation done. I look forward to the conclusions of that. Until then, I assume that the cabinet is actively communicating with the Chamber, as was the case this time, and that the estimates are very broad. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet formation without King. It is getting used to, because even with this complex result, the Chamber itself was able to handle that task. And D66 likes that the swearing-in of the rulers today is done in public and can really be followed closely. This is progress. Last time it was getting used to, but this time it went all right at once, at least that's what I thought until this morning. But... For me at least it went well! Thanks to this swearing-in, a week later, I myself was allowed to pledge allegiance to the Constitution and the Statute. I was somewhat surprised, however, that on top of that I also had to pledge allegiance to the King to be appointed a member of the States-General. I understand that it has to be because it is stated in the 1992 Prosecution of Ministers and Members of the States-General Act, but I am still looking for the argument why it is there. What is the state-law added value of this? I hope the Prime Minister can help me with that search. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Of course, we all hope that it will never be necessary and that opportunity is extremely limited. Fortunately, the Netherlands has so far been free from large-scale attacks and yet the terrorist threat has long been characterised by NCTV as substantial. And we have seen in the countries around us that this risk is not entirely imaginary. At the beginning of this year, journalists asked the National Information Service what would happen to the government in an attack on the Knight's Room during the Throne War, where the King and his successors, all directors, the entire parliament and the Council of State are present at that time. Then who controls the country? The RVD's response to this was: Defence, NCTV officials and other ministries. I've always learned to hope for the best, but prepare for the worst. That is why I found the answer of the RVD too shaky a basis to build the continuity of the government. That is why I think it would be better to take care of this more carefully, so that the important decisions that need to be taken in that case are democratically legitimised. In the United States, for example, the Presidential Succession Act was adopted in 1947 and the State of the Union is always one member of the Cabinet in a secret location. D66 would like the Prime Minister to work out such an arrangement that fits within the Dutch administrative tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u51	It is interesting to note, although it is a very serious theme, that watching a Netflix series can also lead to political inspiration. I'm curious to see the final selection of the candidates we're talking about. Couldn't that also fit in with another format?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u52	A different format than...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u53	Another TV format in which we nominate and vote away any candidates. Seriously, how are we going to select the people? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u54	I explicitly ask the Prime Minister to work out a settlement, together with his state law experts. In the American context, only a few days in advance are selected. In America you have one-headed authority and in the Netherlands we have a tradition of collegial government. I would also ask the Minister to look at an arrangement that fits that background and also to take into account how these people are subsequently elected. Your suggestion would not appeal to me, but I would like to leave it to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u55	I welcome the latter, but it is a serious issue. I would also like to hear from Mr Sneller exactly what is missing from the current state emergency law which should be used by the Prime Minister. Then I also know whether or not I should support it on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u56	I get that. The answer of the National Information Service was that unelected officials then come together and that it is not entirely clear how the decision-making process is there. I do not think that is desirable. If you look at the Constitution, Article 37, Article 38 and Article 58, you will see that the succession is not entirely well arranged and that, for example, the installation of a new Lower House requires a credentials committee, which would then no longer be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u57	Finally, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u58	Yes, very briefly. Is it not the case that these officials, whoever they are, come together with the intention of organising new elections, from which such a committee of credentials also arises and which should lead to the election of a parliament, from which a government can then arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u59	Two things about that, the last one first. It is difficult to set up a new parliament if there is no parliament, because the Chamber in its old composition must have a committee of credentials to examine the credentials of the newly elected members. I think there's a democratic hole there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u60	I don't understand which problem Mr. Faster wants to solve. We have a state emergency right. Parties have lists of people. In a scenario like this, you're dealing with an emergency. Inspiration from a film is directed towards the US. So I don't quite get it. What are you trying to solve with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u61	The odds are extremely low, but it is a very serious situation. I find it problematic that, in such a case, officials who do not have democratic legitimacy would decide on this. I think it is better to make an arrangement in which there is democratic legitimacy for the people who have to make the decisions at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u62	Mrs. Özütok? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u63	I still don't understand. We have a state-of-the-art right, and my group believes that this is very good in these situations. In such an emergency scenario, it must be quickly ensured that people can get back to work. We also have loyal officials for that, who at that time ensure that that process is given form and substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u64	I am not concerned with loyalty; there is no doubt about it. I am concerned about the democratic legitimacy of those who ultimately have to ensure that there is continuity of government as soon as possible. They must also take the decisions to be taken in such an emergency, regardless of the continuity and revival of the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u65	I've been trying to imagine the situation for a while. You put it on Prince's Day in your explanatory statement. In the Netherlands, we are used to taking precautions when there is a concrete threat. If we in the Netherlands had direct cause to expect something large-scale to happen while the entire House of Representatives, the First Chamber and the Cabinet are in there, would you really expect us to just let Princess Day continue as it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u66	If there were any concrete reason, I don't think that would happen. But look at the background. According to the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, the threat level has been substantial for a long time. I believe that this could also give cause for reflection on democratic legitimacy in such an emergency scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u67	I'm asking because this is some kind of theoretical discussion, which you have to think through in case it could be. However, unlike in the United States, we in the Netherlands do not have the tradition of setting up all kinds of safeguards for the simple fact that people with a certain function are together. We leave that here to the question of whether there is a risk. So isn't what you're bringing up now really entirely theoretical? After all, we have the system in which, if there really is a need for a man, we simply intervene in the situation. Then we try to avoid the effect instead of trying to justify what we all have to realize if it would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u68	I think the odds are extremely low, but that's when you have to prepare for the worst. That's not theoretical, but that's just reasoning what would be possible. When you look at our current state law, I think you see that there is a democratic gap. That's what I'm trying to close here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u69	It is in itself fine and good to think about these things: what, if? But in the Constitution, we have a comprehensive arrangement for the succession of the Head of State. There is also state emergency law. You also have unwritten state emergency rights. So does the D66 Group not trust that, in very bizarre and disastrous circumstances, efforts will always be made as quickly as possible to restore the normal legal order contained in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u70	I trust that, but I also believe that it was the conclusion of the National Information Service that this state emergency law would lead to those decisions being taken by officials. This seems undesirable from the point of view of democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u71	These are total emergency measures, which must be taken in a dramatic situation. The aim is then to restore it to constitutional order as soon as possible. Then who cares what exactly is the identity or background of the people who need to get things back on track at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u72	My reasoning is opposite. I think it is precisely in such a situation that it is important that there is democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u73	D66 is under fire. The party has turned its back on the referendum. The Minister must start looking for fake news, but cannot give examples. And the group chairman has problems with his apartment. So I thought this morning, what news will D66 bring? What do you think they've come up with? And I have to say, I find this rather disgusting. For Mr Sneller has now been questioned by many Members of Parliament, questions have been asked, but he does not have a beginning, not yet a beginning, or an effect. He's got nothing. So I'd say D66 got his news, and that's great. We all tweeted and talked about it. Mr President, as a point of order, I would like to propose that we continue the debate and simply discuss serious matters with each other. Let us at least come up with serious proposals and not with these kind of Netflix balloons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u74	I am abandoning these qualifications and I hope that the Prime Minister will take my proposal more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u75	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u76	I have not yet fully tasted a majority in favour of Mr Sneller's proposal, so I do not know whether D66's reasoning will be achieved in the second term, so tasting with regard to motions. Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague, Kikik, who stands in the First Chamber and defends the law against child labour. It's an important law, which we hope he'll make it, but that's exciting. I would like to raise three issues on behalf of the PvdA Group in this budget. First of all, that is appreciation for the work of the Royal House, the second point is fiscal constructions and the third point is the composition of the ministers of state. Mr. Chairman. I believe that this applies to virtually everyone in the Chamber, and at least to a large part of the population, who, in times of crisis, is always one of the first in the country. I am thinking of Hurricane Irma, but also of the earthquakes in Groningen, where the royal couple visited regularly. That really puts a heart in the ring. The PvdA Group greatly appreciates the commitment of the royal couple, whether it concerns sport, cultural facilities, the binding capacity or the fight against illiteracy and financial illiteracy. This is also important in times of polarization, which takes place throughout the world. That linking factor that the Royal House is and offers is very important, also for our country, even in these times. Mr President, I come to my second point: fiscal constructions. Unfortunately, names of the royal family also appear in connection with tax avoidance, tax constructions and all kinds of things that we really want out of the world. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he is in a position to ensure that any member of the Royal House under the ministerial responsibility does not use tax evasion in any way, nor do they use tax avoidance structures, tax havens or pay as little tax as possible. That really doesn't suit the Royal House. Can he confirm that? Mr Van Raak has already said a few things about this motion, which will undoubtedly be retabled. The name of my former colleague Recourt was also mentioned, so we will certainly support that motion again, but I have one specific question on inheritance tax. The Constitution lays down that inherited assets which serve the purpose of exercising the kingship shall be excluded. I would like to have a very clear, clear definition of what assets of the royal family are at the service of the office and what not, on which then possible inheritance tax could be levied. Mr President, I come to the third and final point. However, the Prime Minister needs some encouragement to achieve diversity in the country's governance, in the country's top positions. This is true within his own party: there is only one female minister of the VVD. I do not even need to quote my own party mates, because Mrs Kroes, for example, has been pressing this for years; the Prime Minister also looks in favour of it. It is worrying that so little progress is made, even in the management of Dutch companies; we often talk about this. The phrase "quotas are for fish, not for women," fortunately I hear the VVDs say less and less, but too little is happening. There is really not enough progress. The PvdA Group thinks it is right to encourage the cabinet to at least nominate a woman as the future minister of state. That's a real men's club now. That also makes sense: they are experienced men, who are also somewhat older. But there is no doubt that new ministers of state will be appointed again. In doing so, a real active search must be made for a female candidate. There are good candidates left. Diversity really makes a difference. Also in the choice of formations and information discussions is now richly drawn from this experience and knowledge. In the opinion of the PvdA Group, it can be really helpful and good, also qualitatively good, to appoint a female minister of state. I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Now I give the floor to Mrs Arissen. Keep moving, Mr. Nijboer, don't stand with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister mustn't provoke either. You would like to compliment Mr Nijboer? We're gonna have to do that in public. Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u78	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Royal House and therefore also about Crown Domain Het Loo. On the website of the Kroondomain you will soon find information about the largest part of this area: the Koninklijke Houtvesterij. I quote the website: "The Royal Forest Farm is a vast forest and heathland characterized by natural beauty, silence and tranquility. (...) The Royal Forest (...) covers an area of about twelve by sixteen kilometres. (...) The main destination of the Royal Forest was in the past hunting and forestry. Traditionally, the area is known for its wildlife. Here you have the chance to observe deer, deer or wild boar in an almost natural environment." Mr. Chairman. The Crown Domain was donated to the Dutch people by Queen Wilhelmina in 1959. It is a busy nature area, where people like to come for a walk. But every year between 14 September and 25 December, the area is closed to the public. That's exactly during hunting season. And there is certainly hunted, among other things, on deer, deer and swine. These animals are shot, but out of sight of the public. Natural beauty, silence and tranquility make way for popping, fear and much animal suffering these months. Mr. Chairman. Citizens are thus excluded from their own nature reserve, so that the royal family can kill animals for its pleasure. Although a vast majority of Dutch people are against hunting, they also finance the royal yacht via Vaderje Staat. For 2018 more than €711,000 is budgeted for off-road cars, equipment, training and the wages of fauna managers. That's as much as 30% more than in 2016. Therefore, the Animal Party will table an amendment to allow the budgeted amount for royal hunting to benefit nature in the Crown Domain. The Royal Hunting Department should also be abolished. Mr. Chairman. Last November Wildpark became the Aardhuis in Uddel part of the Kroondomain. There are about ten wild boars who are no longer welcome and therefore risk being shot. Is the Prime Minister prepared to ensure that these animals are released on the Veluwe? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The hobby hunt is not of this time. He serves no purpose or necessity. Animals deserve better than being used as targets, so let hunters lay down their weapons so that the Dutch people can enjoy the beauty, silence and tranquility again. Furthermore, the Animal Party is in favour of modernising the kingdom. The budget will need to be substantially reduced. State allowances should be limited to the king and heir to the throne for the benefit of a ceremonial kingship. The members of the royal family, like every Dutchman, must simply pay taxes as required by the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u79	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u80	Madam President. A while ago, the news came out quite exuberantly that there would be a secret tax deal between court and Binnenhof. Now there has been extensive historical state-law research of Professor Van Baalen's research team and others. It shows that there's no secret deal. In today's language, you have to say that this secret tax deal has obviously been fake news. That fake news regularly pops up around this budget. That can be very difficult. Because there are stories, as is evident from Professor Van Baalen's study, about the supposed wealth of the Royal House and all that sort of thing more, all of which are going to live their own lives again. Therefore, it is very valuable to check every time what is true of all claims. I would like to congratulate the research team led by Professor Van Baalen for the extremely thorough and, at the same time, extremely interesting report. It reads like a train running on time. At the same time, it is extremely interesting reading for those interested in the history of our monarchy and especially in its financial aspects. It also shows how difficult the matter is and how carefully successive Cabinets have had to act in a political-state minefield. I welcome the fact that it also shows that a broad consensus in politics and society has always been sought. This almost always worked, given the majorities that were given successive plans in the States-General. That's worth considering. Despite the disputations that occasionally flare up here, there has in fact always been broad agreement in this Chamber when it comes to regulating things properly. In spite of the time-consuming grumpiness, it is good that there is this consensus and that the appreciation of the role of the Royal House in our society is again widely expressed today. Mr. Chairman. We also had a letter with the government's reaction to the investigation report. I have only one question about this, namely the intriguing final sentence. It says: "The cabinet will consult with the National Archives to make available, subject to any restrictions on privacy, the departmental sources which form the basis of the research carried out for inspection and consultation." Can the Prime Minister explain this sentence? What exactly is going to happen and what isn't? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be in the General Affairs area. Three weeks ago, a book on post-war political history, written by Bert van den Braak and Joop van den Berg, was presented in the Old Chamber of the House of Representatives. It was given the title: Seventy years of searching for the compromise. That title speaks for itself. In this country of minorities, you can only move forward if you seek solutions together and try to overcome differences of opinion. The compromise rules; that is actually the thread of the book. It is also important within the cabinet to monitor the promotion of the unity of general government policy. That's the Prime Minister's job. When the Prime Minister looks at the ceiling in the Trêves room, I understand he sees the image of unity making power. This reminds him of the importance of unity of government policy. What matters to me now is that we are relaxed in dealing with this unity of government policy when it comes to the freedom of rulers to express their own feelings. We have already talked about this in the past. It seems that in the future there may be more work to be done with some illogical coalitions in some cases. That is already the case with the cabinet that is now in place. In fact, that was also true for the previous cabinet of VVD and PvdA. I can imagine that it would be a good idea not to deal too cramped with the principle of homogeneity, as it is called. In concrete terms, this means that directors should be free to make themselves clear when they have hesitations or objections to decisions. If they say in one breath that they accept the majority decision, then there is nothing wrong with that. It also offers more parties opportunities to share responsibility for the administration of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u81	Mr Van der Staaij raises an interesting subject in his own right. I know him as a great judge of the state. As far as I know, the cabinet always speaks with one mouth. How does that starting point relate to what I hear Mr Van der Staaij say, namely that as a minister you must have the space to express your own feelings on a particular policy piece or subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u82	Constitutional matters are the unity of government policy. That's filled in: the government speaks with one mouth. It's good if that's the starting point. But the main rule, also constitutionally, is that nothing stands in the way of dealing with a certain relaxation. This has also been established in the past in a debate on this issue. As long as the unity is not undermined and there is no doubt about the position of the cabinet, for example in the run-up to the decision-making of the cabinet, there is also room for expressing personal feelings without saying immediately: this is a tragedy, this cannot and cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u83	I would like to look at exactly what Mr Van der Staaij is asking the Prime Minister. If something is, then so be it. But if something is not because it is the starting point, then it is not. Then, at most, you could put the following question to the Prime Minister: are you prepared to change the starting point? I don't really know how to do that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u84	It is not a plea for any change in the Constitution or in other rules, because, once again, I believe that the Constitution already offers scope for this, as long as the unity of government policy is not at risk or until there is uncertainty about it. So the only thing I'm asking the Prime Minister right now is whether he recognizes himself in that. And, if that is the case, will he not, from his role as Prime Minister in promoting the unity of government policy, deal with it crampedly? I ask no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u85	We once had a minister from the LPF house who was involved in emigration and who declared himself in favour of the death penalty, and that said: that is my personal opinion. And now Mr Van der Staaij says that ministers should also be able to say personal things. Is it personal for or against the death penalty? Or is that politics again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u86	At that time, however, there was criticism, because there was some kind of split between what you put forward as a minister and what personal opinion is. That can be very confusing if you start to notice all kinds of subtle distinctions. But in the past, there have been leaders who have indicated that they do not agree with a particular cabinet decision and that they have taken a minority position. That's what was brought out later. These are examples of which you can say: that is not my point of view, but I accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u87	It sounds very charming: a kind of plea for freedom of expression for members of the cabinet. But that still results in an unworkable situation. Because then a minister can say at any time: I find something quite different than the cabinet finds? That is ultimately at odds with the Constitution. And all the minister has to do is say it's his personal opinion. That sounds wonderful, but it's unworkable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u88	The question is whether that is unworkable. I know the PVV Group as a great admirer of the Israeli state system, which is pretty much in the other extreme. There, ministers can easily say that they do not agree with what is being put forward in the cabinet. I would not argue that, but the other side is that the exact same texts must be spoken by all the rulers. My thesis is that some relaxation in the handling of this can't hurt, especially if there is more difference in the composition or color of coalitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u89	I do wonder what the government should be charged for, when different ministers speak differently on the same subject in different ways, in different colors. Then how can we control the government? Do we say, "One minister says so, so we're gonna check it out like this, and the other minister says so, so we're gonna check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u90	No, in my view, the condition is always that there is no misunderstanding about what government policy means and that it is followed. It is quite simply the assumption that there is no room for any ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u91	But experience has shown that there is a misunderstanding if you explain government policy in a different way, in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u92	That's something else. I would not argue that the policy should be interpreted in very different ways. 'Cause that's unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u94	Finally. As every year, a number of phrases are devoted to the WRR, the national think tank. Those who look at the WRR website will see that there is or is being studied a multitude of topics. I would like to draw attention to one study, which is that the report Weten presented in April has not yet been done. This report deals with the resiliency of citizens, which is sometimes overrated by the authorities and other bodies. My question is how the government but also municipalities and provinces, for example, can turn the science of this report itself into do. It is, of course, good to note that the capacity of many Dutch people is lower than is sometimes assumed for convenience, but the question is how to increase it. So how is the important findings of this report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy being addressed? That was my final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u96	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u97	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of short, I agree with all the kind words that have been said about the role and duties of our king and queen. Against this background, of course, many questions have also been asked, including on the general affairs budget. I thought I'd just deal with them all about in order of entry, because a lot of themes have been dealt with that allowed themselves to be difficult clusters. Mr Bosma had a whole speech, to which I think only one response was actually requested. If there was a response at all, because it was mainly an argument. I found that the examples he chose from texts and visits were somewhat selective. During the visit to Italy, for example, the king also visited the cooperating Italian and Dutch magistrates fighting against human trafficking across the Mediterranean. I therefore believe that this visit was more balanced than Mr Bosma suggested. Mr Van Oosten has asked a few questions, starting with the state visits. The choice of making and receiving state visits really depends on a range of factors, such as incoming invitations, a certain regional distribution, considerations of timing, think of the visit to Canada and the United States in the framework of 70 years of World War II, the time that has passed since the previous incoming or outgoing visit, a specific degree of foreign political opportunity of the moment, and of course the intrinsic importance attached to relations with a country. Several kinds of factors are weighed in a high-level interdepartmental consultation led by the sg of Foreign Affairs, in which also General Affairs, the Royal House Service and the Director of the King's Cabinet participate. In the end, all this is being prepared. The King visits or receives the other Heads of State, of course under the ministerial responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The King and the Minister regularly discuss the visits, but I have outlined the balancing framework. So that is very broad and that ultimately comes together in a consultation led by the Sg of Foreign Affairs, which includes the services and General Affairs. I've been there for seven years, and it's going very carefully. Mr Van Oosten's second question was about UN Security Council membership. That point is, of course, very relevant. Next year we will be a member after a deal with Italy in which we split it. They do the first year and we do the second year. In October, we shared the commitment with the Chamber once again. We have a number of priorities. One of these was the entire functioning of foreign missions from the UN. How can we improve that? How do we arrive at an approach that not only brings stability, but also helps to develop in a region? How do you ensure that those two ways to remove the root causes of migration are more compatible? Apart from our priorities, of course, there is simply the work that arises. In March we will also be chairman of the Security Council. Many rulers, including myself, will then go to New York to bring their own level to our priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u98	I understand very well that Foreign Affairs plays a very important and important role in the establishment and completion of the UN Security Council seat, but I was simply wondering what the role of General Affairs is in this. What role does the Prime Minister see for himself, in particular, in defending and expressing the importance of international peace and security, for which I believe this seat is intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u99	Sure. No, absolutely not. That is why I will be in New York myself in March, if I am able to get a bit ahead of the Security Council meeting myself. I have a lot of conversations there. The UN Secretary-General is in The Hague this week. I'm having lunch with Guterres on Thursday. We will therefore discuss in detail Security Council membership together. I'll have a whole itinerary next year, too. Now that the formation is over, that goes a little further than Belgium and Ireland. So now I can go back to other parts of the world. This too will be very important in the context and in the context of Security Council membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u100	Rounding up. Perhaps this has been discussed in detail in the course of the discussion of the Foreign Affairs budget, which I do not fully understand, but is there a specific objective? I am referring in particular to the purpose of General Affairs when it comes to occupying that seat. Or is it about the work that comes along? Of course, that's a first-name thing, given the interests that play there in New York.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u101	Of course, General Affairs has no purpose of its own with that seat. Of course, we have a common goal as a kingdom. To a large extent, this is to support the Secretary-General and the reform of the UN. This reform is urgently needed. The UN can do much better than that, let me say. I believe that the reform agenda of the current Secretary-General is very instrumental in achieving that. We support him in that. Since the creation of the UN, we have been among the top ten countries when it comes to being active, being a donor and contributing. So we are actually seen as one of the ten most important players in the UN. This is also because of our historic position as one of the founders of the European Union. We are also the seventeenth economy of the world. From that perspective, therefore, we will make our mark. So we do not do that with our own AZ agenda, but with a joint agenda of the Kingdom. As far as I am concerned, it is important to look at how we can improve this with our experience in Mali and with other UN missions. I would like to mention a very simple point. For example, you participate in a UN mission, but at some point there is a need for rotation with other countries. It's not always easy to get started. Look, for example, at the discussion about the helicopters in Mali that had to be relieved and how complicated that was. It worked out in the end. In the end, this should be much more flexible, so that countries are also more willing to take part in this task and also in UN Security Council tasks. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the matter of the Committee of Inquiry. For this, structural money has been released, and we believe that this is sufficient to fulfil the legal tasks. The committee will, of course, eventually appoint the secretariat itself, but because security investigations are part of it, General Affairs has initiated a procedure for the secretary and the deputy secretary. So they are already being recruited at the moment. If we were to recruit those people only after the Committee of Inquiry has been set up, it would take too long to get those people operational eventually. In the end, we need a 5 FTE secretariat. There is also money for this and money for it in the budget. The chairman of the review committee will set up that secretariat itself. So we're actually getting ahead of ourselves. We are actually trying to recruit that secretary and deputy secretary before the president starts. With regard to the appointment committee itself, the Lower House is currently conducting discussions with candidates. We await the nomination of the Chamber. Together with Home Affairs, Defence and the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Committee, the CTIVD, a comprehensive work programme is being drawn up. Office space is also provided at the Binnenhof. For this, the latest security measures are now being taken. As soon as the House of Representatives is ready to make a speech, nothing really stands in the way of being up and running very quickly. Then there is the question of transparency. A few comments have been made on this. I can now make a whole speech on this subject, referring to the report of the Van Baalen Committee. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that, if you look at history, transparency has really improved significantly. Look at the years before 1973, let's say before the mid-sixties. Then look at the period Van Baalen has studied with her excellent research and her committee. You can then see the transparency as it arises after De Jong/Biesheuvel. Look also at the subsequent adjustments, in the early 1980s, in 2008, in 2009 and in 2015. In my view, therefore, this transparency has been significantly improved in the light of all this. You can also see that in the budget as it stands, with an extracompatible annex, we really give maximum insight into expenditure and so on. There was another question from Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks, about... By the way, I see her now walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u102	Finish your sentence first, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u103	I would like to refer to another question, namely the question of the tax on donations and inheritances. The thing is, when the King gives something to a KH member, it's just loaded. Only in the event that the King has inherited something from his successor is it unburdened. So from the King to the successor no tax is paid, from a KH member to the King no tax is paid, but in all other cases tax is paid. In the example of something after a cousin inheriting it is simply tax paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u104	I have a question about the first part, but I waited very carefully for the Prime Minister to finish his speech. About the Van Baalen Committee. The report on transparency in the financing of the Head of State indicates points of improvement. The Prime Minister got over that very easily. What transparency and financing of the Head of State is he referring to, which is now regulated in relation to what is stated in the Committee's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u105	The Committee notes that after the period under investigation, for example in 2016 following an extensive evaluation of the King's budget, the extacomptable annex has been decided. We're starting to get experience with that. That Annex shall contain the expenditure and related explanations to be taken into account in other budgets. It concerns the foreign ministries for the state visits, BZK for residence, the National Agency for the Palaces, Justice and Security for Security and Defence for Security and The Green Draeck. That is a recent adjustment, which I thought Van Baalen said would help in transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u106	Then a question about the second part, the donation tax. I was referring to Article 33. The Prime Minister says the King doesn't pay taxes when it comes to giving to you, to me or to a nephew. According to him, that is not the case. But where does it say that? What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u107	As I understood the question, you were talking about gift and inheritance of private property, for example from the King to the cousin. Then there's just tax to be paid. If you are referring to Article 33 of the Succession Act, I understood offline that you were referring to it; I therefore raised the issue of gifts by the King, the suspected successor and the resigned King and a wife by virtue of their function and capacity. Those donations are untaxed. These are donations for the benefit of citizens or organisations that receive the donation. For example: the King gives a prize to a citizen, then it is untaxed. The King visits a petting zoo and gives an animal, then that donation is free of charge. So these are gifts that the King makes to others, but then that is always because of the function and capacity and not in function of a part of the inheritance to pass on to a family member. Then there's just tax paid, unless that family member is the heir to the throne.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u108	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u109	I do not want to become technical, but can the Prime Minister also indicate where exactly this can be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u110	Article 33 refers to the inheritance law. I'm just gonna take a quick look, 'cause I've got someplace in my stack where the other one is. Article 40 (2) of the Constitution refers to income tax. The exemption from inheritance and gift rights is set out in the Constitution Article 40 (2), second sentence. The first sentence concerns the income tax exemption. Then there's Article 33 of the Succession Act. This is about the fact that such prices, such as a price to a citizen or an animal at a petting zoo, are not taxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u112	Yes. Then I come to the smooth handling of contacts between officials and MPs. Mrs Özütok argued in favour of this. She referred to the ukaze-kok. In itself, I agree with her. Let's just relax a little bit. I also think that the clue doesn't stand in the way of this type of contact. It only ensures that the politically responsible minister has to agree to it. He needs to know what's going on. When I look at the practice, it is handled functionally. Department officials regularly hold technical briefings. I don't think there's any tension on the line right now. Mrs Özütok also asked for a timely answer to parliamentary questions. I agree. That should be done within three weeks. If there is a need for delay, we must ask for it in good time. It is right that the Chamber there should keep a finger on the wrist. The disclosure of directors' agendas is taking place today. With the start of this cabinet, important parts of the agendas will be made public on the website reichsoverheid.nl. That's not all the arrangements, because it's not always possible. I get a proposal every week from what's going to be made out of my agenda for next week. For example, for reasons of security or privacy, not everything becomes public, but a lot. Then about Prince Bernhard and the buildings in Amsterdam. He's not a member of the Royal House. Sometimes there is a picture that the other members of the royal family or the Royal House, unlike the beneficiaries, all receive money. I would also like to mention once that this is not the case. They just have to make their own money. They must, of course, operate within the rules of the law. That also applies when they have an enterprise. But that does not extend to my responsibility. Then Noordeinde Palace. The plan is to open Palace Noordeinde to the public again next year. That was indeed a great success, I think. Then Mr Van der Molen asked how to ensure that as a government you also reach young target groups when it comes to information and what happens from the communication service. I must agree with him that it is true that young people are a very difficult target group to reach. They watch less television. Of course, you can also see how companies are doing their advertising. Now all government campaigns are customized. This means that we assess on a case-by-case basis what the optimal media mix is. Thus, if young people are part of the target group, it almost necessarily requires additional means of communication. This means that we are also working on vlogging, social media and online media, such as YouTube and you name it: the full width. The time of the old P.O. Box 51 spot, which we took 30 times and then everyone knew where to get his form, is over. The campaigns for the coming year will be published on national government.nl before 1 January. The departments themselves remain responsible for the content of these campaigns. Once again, before January 1st, the entire list for next year will be published on national government.nl. I've got it right here with me. If anyone wants me to read that list, I'm gonna do it. But it's gonna be on the website. Then Mr Van Raak asked what I think of the amount of the benefit. I do not think that much of that, other than that a benchmark was chosen in 1972. Van Baalen reconstructed that very nicely again. This amount has been indexed over time. This has also been discussed a number of times, including in 2008 when the Royal House Financial Statute Act was revised. At the end of the day it was found Chamberwide that what was happening at that time was also sensible. That includes duty-free. We've had that discussion a lot. I also told the Chamber that I didn't want to make a bill about it, but that the Chamber itself was free to do so. Then she'll be given technical assistance. But I have said for many reasons, which we discussed last year, that tax-free allowances, as they are now, are sensible in my view. In addition, the main rule is that the members of the Royal House pay tax and that there are also a few exceptions, which we have just discussed. There are very good reasons why, among other things, there is no tax on this benefit. That has nothing to do with a basic choice, but much more with a practical one, namely that it's a huge pile of hassle, an administrative hassle, if you're going to tax it, given the complicated and special position of the Royal House, especially of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u113	The Prime Minister doesn't want to carry out the motion. I didn't feel like it when I was a kid, and then my mom is always like, "Well, you know what? The House of Representatives has adopted a motion from me and my friend Pechtold. It does not call on the Chamber or Mr Van Raak to come up with proposals, no, it says: invites the government there to make a proposal on how the tax exemptions of the King, the Queen and the former Queen can be undone. That is a very clear motion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u114	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Chamber is a government auditor. In that respect, in controlling the government, you can file motions. In addition, the Chamber is also hierarchically superior to the government, above the cabinet. But as co-legislator, we are at eye level. It is strange that part of the legislative power imposes its powers on another part of the legislative power and says: make a law. You can make that law yourself and then we provide technical assistance. Why should the government do that if she doesn't like it? I never understood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u115	That's remarkable, isn't it? The House of Representatives wants a law, but the Prime Minister says: we only do that when we feel like it. I don't think the Prime Minister fully understood that. I get it. He also has that reasoning in the referendum. He says it not only to the Chamber but also to the people: if we want something as a cabinet, the electorate does not have to speak about it anymore. I think the Prime Minister will have to read under the Christmas tree just one more book of state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u116	That's gonna be interesting. Then let's go read that book together. I'm afraid I'm right. As far as the control function is concerned, there are motions to give instructions, to communicate views and to make suggestions from that controlling role. It is crazy to force a government that does not agree with a movement towards the abolition of duty-free, to make a proposal for this, when the Chamber itself can do so. You simply have legislative powers, so the Chamber can make an initiative law. Then you'll have all the technical assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u117	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u118	I think the Chamber is giving a lot of legislative orders. I will just mention the coalition agreement, to give you an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u119	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u120	However, fine, in the second term I will ask the Chamber to give the Prime Minister a more binding mandate. Again, I assume that my friend Pechtold, my fellow warrior by weather and wind and for years and days, will continue to support me. Then I have every confidence that everything will be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u121	I really do not understand why the Socialist Party, which values a powerful parliament, is so renouncing its own powers, undermines the right of initiative of the Chamber by saying: no, we deny that we actually have it; we force the government to make a law that it does not want, because we do not want it. I find that really incomprehensible. Mr. Chairman. Then we have been asked whether, as a result of this, we can bring the benefit into line with the Top Income Standards Act. For all the reasons here today, I would like to draw attention to the amendment of the WFSKH 2008, the report of the Van Baalen Committee and the fact that we are not dealing with people who are in all respects covered by the WNT. Then I'll get to the referendum. Of course, that is not what this debate is about, but well, of course, it is about everything. That's always the risk. On the referendum, I can only say that the cabinet intends to send a repeal law to the Lower House on the consultative referendum, in accordance with the government agreement. As soon as that bill is finished, it goes to the Chamber. Then you can learn about the content. I am not going to anticipate the content. I take note of the various comments made in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u122	I have also taken note of the Prime Minister's remarks in the media. I would like to go into that further. He says it makes sense that the repeal law for the referendum itself is not referendable. The argument is: if the House of Representatives has adopted that repeal law, there is no longer a referendum and so you cannot hold a referendum on it. I found that a very strange reasoning, because the referendum is not about that law, because that law is no longer there, never again. The referendum is about the decision of the House of Representatives. It'll correct that. It is a correction of a decision of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u123	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u124	And if the House of Representatives decides to abolish the referendum, can the people still hold a referendum on that decision and advise the House of Representatives on that decision in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u125	Yeah, that's right. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u126	But why does the Prime Minister tell us on television that it is logical that no referendum can be held about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u127	I gave my opinion on this, as did the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollengren. What is ultimately stated in the bill will have to prove when the bill comes out, but we find it inherently logical that a repeal law on a consultative referendum is not in itself referendable. We think that's crazy, because you get a kind of Droste can, where you see that little woman with that look on that leaf coming back over and over again. You can then eventually hold a referendum on whether to hold a referendum on the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act. Eventually, it's stuck in itself. I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u128	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u129	So the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have submitted an ingenious legal arrangement to the Council of State. That ingenious legal construction is that the Prime Minister says he thinks it's weird. Well, my mom used to say, "I sometimes find things weird."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u130	I'd like to meet that mother of yours sometime!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u131	For example, her son!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u132	And that's what I'm saying to the Prime Minister: we sometimes think it's a little weird. But it's not about what the Prime Minister thinks is weird or not. The issue is whether or not we respect a democratic right of the people. I see here a Prime Minister who is afraid of the people, afraid of being corrected and, even more so, afraid of being advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u133	If I was afraid of being corrected, I wouldn't have been my party's list leader four times. That went completely wrong once, in 2006, so I have experience with that. The question is then what do you think of the instrument of the referendum? Mr Van Raak also made a whole speech on this in his first term. I find it complicated to answer that from the coalition, because there are different views in the coalition. Let me say in general terms that there may be parties that attach importance to representative democracy. They will not say that issues are too complicated to be presented to the public. However, some issues are so complex that they can only lead to decision-making after discussion. You cannot have a collective discussion with 17 million people, including possible amendments as they are taking place here. Those who are in favour of a representative democracy will often use that argument as well. There are also parties, including in this coalition, which are in favour of the referendum, i.e. direct democracy. There are different views in the coalition about this. What we finally agreed on in the coalition agreement is that the law consultative referendum itself is an unwise law. That's what all four coalition parties think. I would just like to refute the fact that things would be too complicated to present to the people, as Mr Van Raak suggests, because that is not the argument. The argument is that you can have that discussion here with 150 representatives of the people and make an assessment. I thought I'd fix that for a while. In addition, Mr Van Raak mentioned "a VVD." That's right; that's him, the SP. You also have "the VVD." That's my party. Then there was a request for disclosure of the agenda of the Council of Ministers. That agenda is not public because directors must feel completely free to discuss an item on the agenda and decide, but can therefore decide not to take a decision. It does not come under my direction, of course, with a certain regularity; no, even under my direction, that no decision is taken, because we just haven't figured it out yet, because it has to mature for another week or because we decide to do it quite differently. So when that agenda comes out, what is apparently so much of a discussion that that free debate cannot take place in the Council of Ministers becomes visible. In addition, Article 45, third paragraph, of the Constitution requires the Council of Ministers to discuss and decide on general government policy and the unity of that policy. The publication of these agendas could thus also contribute to the failure to promote this unity of government policy, as it would be possible to see what would appear to be different views. So the meetings aren't public either. There is also a reason why the Council of Ministers should be able to debate and then decide. In addition, it may happen that we have an item on the agenda which leads to a decision that is not made public, for example because a document has to go to the Council of State first. It will not be made public until the Council of State returns. But even then, a bill may not be tabled, because the Council of State has serious considerations as to why it is an unwise bill and with which the Council of State sometimes also convinces the government, the cabinet. What does, of course, happen is that about all decisions that can be made publicly, press releases will come out after the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u134	I believe that the Council of State itself makes public on its website which opinions are pending, so that people and we can just follow that. I understand in itself the argument about free expression of opinion. That seems to me to be an important argument, although for me, transparency is more important. In other countries you can see that it is being made public. The Prime Minister also has contacts with those other government officials, for example with the Prime Minister of Belgium. Is he getting the impression that there is indeed less freedom of opinion? Does he have any signals about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u135	Of course, Belgium and its six governments have a very different political system. That is a federal state system with also horizontal governments. The government of Flanders is not hierarchically under the federal government, but is hierarchically at the same level as the governments of Wallonia, the French-speaking region, Eupen-Malmedy and the Brussels region. It is six governments which are all six horizontal and where there is a great deal of common ground between the ministers of all these governments. This leads to such a different situation that it is very difficult to compare our unitary state with the federal state of Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u136	I believe that the freedom in which ministers express themselves at such a meeting is comparable, because the political relationship does not diminish much. I also mentioned Albania, Austria and Sweden in my speech. These countries are more transparent about the meeting of the Council of Ministers than we are about that. The Prime Minister himself goes to the European Council, which makes his agenda public in advance. I don't have the impression that he feels very obstructed there to express his opinion freely, or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u137	That is a really different situation, because I will, of course, go to the European Council not in a formal sense with a burden, but after a back-spoke and thus at least with implicit blasphemy from the House of Representatives. After the extensive debate I have here on the preparation of the European Council, which is a different situation from that of a minister who has been appointed and is supposed to make a proper decision from his own convictions. He does not take that decision as a representative of another body and I am, of course, sitting there as a government leader on behalf of the Netherlands. That is different from a minister in the Dutch government who has been appointed by the method of appointment we know in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u138	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u139	I understand all the differences, but I think the common denominator is the question of how free people feel to express themselves in a meeting when the agenda has been made public in advance. I do not hear many arguments as to why this would be less in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u140	It's not so much about whether you feel free to express yourself, because they have to be able to stand up to that. It concerns the complexity of decision-making in a country like the Netherlands with a now very fragmented political landscape. All four parties are now needed, and in such a situation, I believe that it will be of benefit to you that there will not be media pressure, either in advance or afterwards, because civil society organisations or parliamentary groups are going to express themselves. This situation is new, because we did have four or five-party cabinets, but not all of these parties were needed for a majority. You don't want pressure because it says, "Oh, that item on the agenda is on the agenda. Well, I hope they're gonna do this." You don't want to see endless pre-consultations in the morning on the radio and television and in the newspapers, all of which are going to put extra pressure on that discussion in the Council of Ministers. It is already very complex to govern this country, I can tell you from experience after seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u142	I do not believe that this will reduce that complexity. Then there's the question of where the 200,000 guilders went, page 87. The report doesn't make that quite clear either, so not everything can be found entirely. It points out that this 200,000 guilder has been spread over various cost items within the constitutional benefit. We are talking about the B component for human and material costs. That is now in Article 1 of the King's budget. I can report that smoke products are not "not" declared functionally. That used to be customary, but it hasn't been for years. Then the cost of House ten Bosch. Strictly speaking, that is something that goes beyond my competence, because this is about the National Real Estate Company and therefore about Secretary of State Knops. I can tell you that it has not been to that part of the budget that the King or future users can find anything of. There is no overrun on that 11 million, on the contrary, I believe, but at least no overrun. I have just been able to figure out exactly what this overrun is about. This is, among other things, a complete rather than partial restoration of roof and façade, a complete replacement rather than a renovation of the burgundy staircase which is sometimes very essential if a new cabinet is to be established and additional necessary asbestos remodelling and wood rot and pest control. This has ultimately led to an overrun. Secretary of State Knops has indeed said that because there are so many other major projects, he wants to be more fundamental through an external research into the direction and control of this type of specialist and special projects. Those who asked, at least Mr Van der Molen and I also thought Mr Sneller, I can say that this is also happening in the context of the renovation of the Binnenhof. The fact is that there have been other special projects in the past, including in terms of specialisation, and there have been threats of overruns or overruns that have taken place. This is why this expertise research is carried out. Then swearing allegiance to MPs. You know better than anyone that, according to Article 60 of the Constitution, Members of Parliament take several oaths when they take office, including the oath of loyalty to the King. Article 60 of the Constitution requires three oaths from Members of Parliament: purification, faithfulness to the Constitution and a faithful office. The formulas of these three oaths are contained in the Prosecution of Ministers and Member States General Act. That law also includes the oath of allegiance to the King. It follows not from Article 60 of the Constitution, but from Article 47 of the Statute of the Kingdom: "The ministers and the members of the representative body in the countries shall take an oath or a pledge of loyalty to the King and the Statute before taking up their duties." Then why is that? Honestly, I think that makes sense. When the Statute was introduced in 1954, that oath was taken for granted and was not provided with any other explanation. I believe that this is due to the fact that the King as Head of State is the embodiment of the unity of our Kingdom and does not affect the freedom of Members of the Assembly to have views for or against the monarchy, of course not, or the budget of the same monarchy. They can just express themselves about that. In other words, I see no reason to change that now. That's actually the background to that. It's in the law, and I think for a reason. Then the comments about the designated survivor. A direct cause or ground for one or more designated survivors is not present in itself. It's not like we have an untenable problem right now. The RVD responded to questions asked in response to questions about that Netflix series. So you can see that these Netflix series are more useful than passing long debates if you do not have to sit here as a Member of Parliament. There are, of course, existing possibilities in our regulations. New MPs could be on the electoral lists. If the whole Chamber were to die, which God forbid, new MPs could be invited from the lists of the elections. In an emergency, these new Members of Parliament may also find a solution to their credentials. That will have to be done on an ad hoc basis. Anyway, I guess that's not the big deal. As far as the board is concerned, the RVD replied that civil servants, military personnel and citizens could temporarily play a role as they would in other circumstances. Having said all that, it is therefore not an acute problem. But in itself, as Mr Sneller also said, you do not know for sure that it will not happen. What I would actually like to say is that I would like to look again at how things are arranged, where possible in extreme situations, you are talking about very extreme situations, we are all talking about once again holes and some routes would be to close those holes. In practical terms, I should like to put that together, without having any idea of it, and to give a technical picture of what the different variants are. Then there's tax avoidance and tax evasion. The members of the Royal House must abide by all the rules, all the laws and regulations, and the Tax Administration, as it does to everyone, supervises them. That's just his normal job. There was a question, from Mr Nijboer, about the assets serving the royal function. This is the result of Article 40 of the Constitution, which provides for a tax exemption for parts of the property that are important for the performance of the kingship, for example the Golden Coach. Those assets that concern the performance of the royal function are now all housed in various foundations, for the Golden Coach, for jewels, etc. This means that this article is no longer really relevant to the taxes that members of the Royal House owe and pay. By placing in foundations, the property that is functionally used for the kingship, such as the Golden Coach, is prevented from becoming fragmented in the event of inheritance. This ensures that the crown carrier can continue to have such assets. So that does not apply to private property. The King is simply liable for income tax and capital yield tax. It's actually a bit of a dead article by now, because it's all housed in foundations. This is paragraph 2 of Article 40 of the Constitution and, once again, that is a little out of date. Then women ministers of state. There have been two women ministers of state since 1815. So wow, that's stormy. That's Marga Klompé and Els Borst. It is an honorary title, as we know, on the proposal of the Prime Minister. In the end, it's about the merits of someone in their previous career. What you have to establish is that women in the last 20 to 30 years have become much more prominent in public life in this country. They now also make up a third and sometimes 40% of the cabinet. That's what you see here in the Chamber and wide in society. So it is obvious that this will also be reflected in the appointment of state ministers. Without me being able to say here that the next one is per se a woman, that is very obvious. I fully agree with Mr Nijboer. I agree with the spirit of his remark that it is obvious that this will happen more often in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u143	I'm already happy with that movement, but it's a bit of an objective description. There are more and more women active, so there will be a woman's turn, so I almost hear it. I would like to hear a little more effort, a kind of appreciation and a commitment from the Prime Minister. I would like to hear that he is also willing to actively look for it, so that he does not just sort of "it happens to us one time that there is a woman's turn" reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u144	As long as it is not an obligation to result that the next Minister of State must be a woman, I would be against it. I can live with the spirit of the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u145	Thank you. I will come back to the first point, because that is what I was running to the interrupting microphone for, and that is tax avoidance and evasion. Yeah, they have to obey the law. That's pretty weedy. If we had a king who would avoid tax, the country would be too small. Then the Prime Minister had a serious problem. But in the case of tax avoidance, of course, the discussion is what can be done within the limits of the law. I've been chairman of an interrogation committee. There are sometimes things that everyone finds morally reprehensible, but which are still just to be defended because the law is not sharp enough. That's behavior that the Royal House shouldn't be showing, isn't it? Does the Prime Minister share that with me? And he's committed to that, too? Does he guarantee they won't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u146	I can't do the latter, because of course it's the Tax Administration that controls it. But I can say that there is no reason to believe that this is happening. There is no reason for that. The King and those who are ministerially responsible for the Royal House, i.e. the Cabinet and in particular the Prime Minister, also have constitutional traffic and inform each other if there are things that could be vulnerable. And tax evasion is against the law and tax avoidance is at least socially vulnerable. I have no reason to believe it's happening. But I'm not dealing with the individual tax charge. That's what the IRS does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u147	Yes, but of course you're talking about whether something is indeed vulnerable. This means that there are no trusts or other matters in the Bahamas or in Panama, or other matters under management or anything similar?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u148	Not that I'm known in any way. But as Prime Minister, I can't go and ask for access to a specific tax return. I can't. In order to avoid misunderstandings, however, I would like to say that there is no reason to believe that there would be anything strange going on there. I come to the question of the Crown Domain. Solutions for the wild boar are being looked at. Mrs Arissen mentioned this. These animals have been fed for a long time and are used to it. They have a limited living space. It is currently being examined whether release in nature after the winter months could be an option. For this, an exemption or consent is required through the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. An application to that effect shall be submitted. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the Van Baalen Committee's documents. The Cabinet will enter into consultation with the National Archives to make available, subject to any restrictions on privacy, the departmental sources that form the basis. The starting point is that the cabinet enters into consultation with that National Archives and that the importance of privacy should be taken into account in such departmental documents. The private archives are, of course, the subject of the proceedings themselves. That investigation is now under way. This requires consultation between ministries, the National Archives and individuals. Shortly after the turn of the year, the research will be completed and decision-making can take place. There has been talk of freedom of expression of ministers versus the unity of government policy. In the final case, ministers can ask for a note. What is possible under special circumstances is that that note is made public. So it's possible on its own. I say honestly that in coalition country Holland I would find it vulnerable if a minister said: I don't like it, but it's in the coalition agreement so I'm defending it here. That does not often make the Minister much stronger. I also belong to Mr Van der Staaij at the same time to a certain relaxation; well, it doesn't have to be all on hair and strings. I agree with him, by the way. But I am also very careful about this, also given the internal importance of the coalition. A minister shall act on his behalf. This also has to do with collegiality, because it means that others do too. It is also at the expense of the cohesion of the cabinet as ministers all expressing positions where they say: I really don't like it at all, but it must be because it is in the coalition agreement. So I have dealt with it quite relaxedly in recent years; I only use that word once more. But I am trying to strike a balance between collegiality, promoting the unity of government policy and not the impossible questions. However, that possibility of making that note public is already provided for in exceptional cases. The question about the WRR report Weten has not yet been asked. The cabinet is currently working on a comprehensive cabinet response. It's scheduled for early 2018. After that, there will be plenty of room to talk about that report. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this report is important and that it also provides a basis for the functioning of the government and also for the transition to provinces and municipalities, as suggested by Mr Van der Staaij. So we'll come back to that whole application.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u149	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I suppose there's a need for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u150	Not to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u151	Okay, I'll take a look around. Then I will go to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u152	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given to the questions I have asked, particularly for the fact that he has once again stressed in this Chamber that the Review Committee on Betting Powers can also count on sufficient support from the time that that committee has to work. I will conclude with the following, and I say this in the direction of Mr Sneller, because he has raised the point of the designated survivor, so I shall translate it into Dutch. I asked him some critical questions about that, of course. However, in that respect, I am simply curious to see how the Prime Minister's commitment is being worked out and I acknowledge that it is of course no harm to review state emergency law and its technique again. I am therefore looking forward to that and await the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. Then I will go to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his reply. With regard to my questions about Article 33 of the Succession Act on inheritance and gift tax for the King, I have heard the Prime Minister clearly say that it is actually already regulated in several articles. But is he also prepared to give us a written overview of this? For I believe him in his words, but it is useful to get that in an overview. My question is this: please have a written summary of this. With regard to the opening up of palaces, I have a motion for a resolution. It is not quite clear to me whether the Prime Minister has actually made a commitment; hence a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Noordeinde Palace and Palace Huis ten Bosch buildings are state-owned, with particular cultural historical value;]] [[Whereas previous openings of these palaces were particularly popular and the available maps were rapidly sold out;]] [[Whereas it is important to make the cultural and historical values of publicly owned buildings accessible to the public as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to open the previously opened spaces in Noordeinde Palace each year for a limited period, e.g. a number of dates during the summer holidays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-I-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u155	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u156	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the commitments he has made to the Chamber and also to the CDA Group. As far as the CDA is concerned, there are two more points to mention. At the beginning, after expressing my appreciation for the performance of the King and the Queen, I made a brief remark between the nose and the lips, namely that I cannot imagine that you would deliberately applaud the insult of at least the King. I asked the Prime Minister if he could tell me how he saw it. In any case, I have noticed that the Prime Minister did not answer that question, so I shall ask him again. The second concerns Noordeinde. Several groups and myself have indicated in the first term a somewhat more generous opening up of Noordeinde. House ten Bosch is also mentioned, but I can imagine, because at some point that will also be a place where people will live. So just to keep walking through that together, maybe it's not the best thing to do. But Noordeinde could be opened up a little more than the four times we have experienced, also in view of the public interest and that we should always disappoint people. So, perhaps in the direction of the motion that has been tabled, as far as the CDA Group is concerned, a more generous gesture from the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u157	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u158	I think this Prime Minister is one of the most ideologically motivated politicians of our time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u159	With vision!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u160	That is why I would have liked to have a somewhat more ideological debate with him today about his views on the individual at the expense of the community, about businesses at the expense of citizens, about the market at the expense of democracy. The Prime Minister didn't do that. He didn't pick up that glove. I regret that, but I hope to be able to have a debate on this with him some other time soon. We did discuss the referendum for a while. I wasn't comfortable with that either. I didn't like the Prime Minister's answers either. I have to conclude very carefully that the government has not yet got its homework in order. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to make the referendum repeal law irrefutable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-III-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u161	I also found the Prime Minister's views on the relationship between the cabinet and the Chamber somewhat remarkable. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The government requests the motion of Van Raak, Recourt and Pechtold (34300-I, No. 5) on the tax exemptions of the members of the Royal House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-I-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u163	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Then I will go to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was clear that it was not the first time that the Prime Minister was allowed to defend this budget. I have a few points to make. Thank you for the clarification about Van Baalen and the smoke products. It is good that there is clarity about the State real estate company; I think the Prime Minister's words were correct. We'll take that up with Secretary of State Knops. Thank you also for the commitment to identify in a technical note any gaps in democratic legitimacy in such an emergency scenario that I mentioned in the first time. I think it would be good to continue the substantive debate on the basis of that note. Where we didn't find each other was on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. That is why I have a motion, which must of course be read in the background and within the framework of Article 45 (3) of the Constitution, as the Prime Minister rightly said in his term. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the agenda and/or decision list of the Council of Ministers is being made public in several countries;]] [[Whereas these forms of public access may increase the involvement of citizens in politics as well as the accountability of the administration;]] [[calls on the Government to be more transparent about what is being discussed in the Council of Ministers, ideally by making the agenda public in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-III-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u166	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then I will go to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers I liked, both on tax evasion and avoidance. He doesn't know anything about that. That's out of the question. If he was, he'd definitely distance himself from that. The answers on the appointment of a female minister of state also gave birth. I had a motion, but I thought the motion could also be taken over by the cabinet. So I can file her, but if you get a generous commitment in a debate, you can just cash it in. That's what I was gonna do here. I have not only heard the Prime Minister describe that there are more and more capable women who could be Minister of State. I have also heard him express an effort to recognise that interest, in the sense that these capacities can be exploited in the future. I'd be happy to accept that commitment. I'm not sending a motion after that. But that does mean, of course, that we are going to see whether this is going to happen in the future and we are going to keep that commitment to the Prime Minister. If we will not do so, as a Chamber or as a PvdA, then I am sure that there are still some party members who will remind the Prime Minister of this commitment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u168	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall now go to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u169	Thank you, Mr President. The Animal Party would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Queen Wilhelmina gave the crown domain Het Loo to the Dutch people in 1959;]] [[noting that the Dutch State pays hundreds of thousands of euros annually for maintenance of the crown domain;]] [[considers that the Dutch population should therefore be given annual access to this nature reserve;]] [[calls on the government to open up the crown domain Het Loo year round to the public as of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-I-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u170	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Royal Fauna Administration (formerly Royal Hunting Department), which is responsible for the operation of the crown domain itself, is financed by tax money;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Royal Fauna Administration or the Royal Fauna Administration is in a position to do so. No longer to finance the hunting department,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-I-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u171	Finally, we are pleased to hear that an animal-friendly solution is being used for pigs in the former Wildpark Het Aardhuis. We would therefore like to receive a letter containing the animal-friendly solutions and possibilities devised by the cabinet and the conditions that might be attached to them. That's it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u172	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. We're waiting for the final motions. They're coming now. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Shall I suspend for three or five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u173	Five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u174	Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u175	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u176	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with duty-free. I am going to try to avoid having to send a letter by explaining it very precisely here, so that it gets into the Acts very precisely. There are four exceptions to the main rule that the members of the Royal House pay tax. The first exception, in accordance with the first sentence of Article 40 (2) of the Constitution, concerns an exemption from income tax for benefits. The second exception, in accordance with Article 40 (2), is again the first sentence: an exemption from income tax for the "assets serving the performance of their duties." I have just explained to Mr Nijboer that that article has become an empty article in practice, because all these things are housed in foundations. The third exception concerns an exemption from inheritance and gift rights for only the King and the suspected successor if obtained from a member of the Royal House for the purpose of maintaining family property. This is stated in the second sentence of Article 40 (2) of the Constitution. And the last exception concerns Article 33 of the Succession Act: the exemption of inheritance and gift rights from donations to citizens and institutions by members of the Royal House, who receive a constitutional allowance, by virtue of their function and capacity. I have mentioned examples of things that are untaxed: an animal at a petting zoo or a prize to a citizen. I have also been asked a question by Mr Van der Molen about deliberate insults. He refers to an initiative draft of D66. I understand that this initiative will be discussed in the Chamber in January. Then the cabinet must also advise, as is customary under an initiative law. This means that this law will be discussed in the Council of Ministers for a long time before it is discussed here, so that the Minister of Justice and Security, who will be present at the meeting, can give the opinion on behalf of the Cabinet. So I cannot say anything about this now; it must first be discussed in the Council of Ministers. After all, it is an initiative that comes from the Chamber, and so it is procedurally well established when we are in a position to find something of it. That will be when the draft initiative is discussed. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 7 (34775-I), also touches on a remark made by Mr Van der Molen. In a strict sense, I must dissuade her, because not the government but the King is about opening up. The King is given the palaces ex Constitution, one in the capital and two at present in The Hague. It is therefore the King who decides whether these palaces will be opened. So that does not happen in the Chamber or in the Cabinet. Constitutionally, the King has three palaces. He may decide to open some of the palaces or not. As stated in the motion by Özütok and Van Raak, exactly what is happening is that it is open for a limited period, for example a few days during the summer holidays. He's already decided. So in that sense, the motion is superfluous. But also in a formal sense, I cannot help but discourage the motion, because she is asking me to do something that I am not talking about. That would be unconstitutional. But the beauty of it is that we can remain friends in that sense, and that is exactly what Mr Van Raak wants and Mrs Özütok wants; and that is, of course, always my aim. With regard to the motion in part No. 6 (34775-III) on the repeal law, I refer to the debate. That's why I'm telling her off. The same applies to the motion in part No. 8 (34775-I) on duty-free. We have discussed this at length. I do not think that my comment that I am not recommending these motions requires further clarification here. Then I come to the motion on part No. 7 (34775-III) by Mr Sneller, who called for greater transparency, ideally by making the agenda public in advance. I am going to discourage the motion, but I say to Mr Sneller that I will always ask myself whether we are doing the best we can to make public. Of course, we do this by holding a press conference every week, taking out press releases, and you name it. I will continue to look for ways, but if the motion is adopted, I am afraid that I am sneaking away from the request to possibly make the agenda public. But I could act in the spirit of the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 9 (34775-I). Only if it plays fauna, the Crown Domain is closed. Other than that, it's always open. So I'm dissuading the motion because it's factually incorrect. Then the last motion, the motion in part no. 10 (34775-I) by Mrs Arissen. This concerns Article 2 of the King's budget. The King is free to spend these resources as he wishes, naturally in compliance with Article 41 of the Constitution. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u177	You may ask a question about the motion tabled, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u178	I heard the Prime Minister say that there is a factual error in the motion in part No. 9 (34775-I). The Crown Domain, or a large part of it, is closed to the public from 14 September to 25 December. The Crown Domain is therefore not open year round.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u179	No, I didn't. It is open for a very large part of the year, except during wildlife management. If the wildlife management takes place, we can't open it, because then it becomes dangerous. But in that sense, you are right. I go too short when I say that the motion is not correct. You're right about that. That's right. However, I do retain the advice "dissuade," simply because otherwise the management of fauna is not possible. But Mrs Arissen is right: I was too short on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u180	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-20.u181	Next Thursday we will be voting on the motions and on the budget.
