ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, also Deputy Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. One in eight women in the armed forces has to do with unwanted sexual attention. This was shown in the study "Grants to the Unit. The experience and appreciation of diversity and inclusiveness among Defence employees" of the SCP (Social and Cultural Planning Agency) earlier this year. There are some shocking things in this report. In the first instance, therefore, we welcomed the measures announced by the government earlier this year; quite rightly, as far as I am concerned. D66 is constantly committed to the emancipation of women in the armed forces. But what does it turn out to be? Instead of fighting sexism, Defense advertises and recruits on a website where women's unkindness is the flagship. My group finds this incomprehensible. I have no understanding for that. I therefore think it is very right for Mrs Hertzberger and many of her to ask whether you want to be associated as an advertiser with such a women's unfriendly website. Many advertisers then withdrew, but not Defence, because, according to a spokesperson from the Ministry: many potential recruits look at the site, so it is understandable that we advertise on it. I really don't understand a reaction like that. Can the Minister explain it to me? What is the government's policy here? A day later, Defense decided not to place advertisements on GeenStijl and Dumpert for the time being. What does "preliminary" mean? Why is it not immediately dismissed, as many others have done? Last weekend, Minister Schultz and Minister Bussemaker both indicated that they support the call not to advertise on GeenStijl and Dumpert. Does this mean that this is government policy now? If not, why not? Does this also mean that the Tax Administration will no longer advertise on these two sites? The key question before us is: do you want to advertise as a government on a website that is structurally unfriendly to women? I assume that the cabinet and I feel the same way, namely that the answer to this is absolutely no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is good to realise that this debate began with women journalists who said that it leads to a very violent anti-reaction every time they express an opinion that GeenStijl does not like. There's the call to responders "would you/you do her?', with the invitation to add explicit sexual compliments, an example of that. At the same time, in the eyes of many people, this has crossed a line. In a free society, this also means that criticism may arise and may be expressed by other journalists. Then there is no task for the government yet. It's a good thing people are being addressed to the way they behave. In that sense, I also welcome the fact that women, by the way, also men, have opposed this attempt to deny others freedom of expression. You have an opinion and because you are a woman, it is followed by an invitation to respond only sexually derogatoryly. That's why Schultz and Bussemaker thought this was a good action. Then you come to the question of what the role of the government is. The government must stay extremely away from attempts to ban or prevent displeasure. Freedom of expression, Article 7 of our Constitution and Article 10 of the ECHR (European Convention on Human Rights) protects first and foremost against public authorities. This does not mean that the government, as an advertiser, should not consider advertising in certain magazines or on certain sites in a particular context. That's what happened. The Secretary of Defense then decided that she no longer wanted that for her organization. This can also be understood in terms of an organisation that is recruiting and can therefore also be extremely affected by this kind of cross-border derogatory statements. So it also has the right to choose to advertise or not. Freedom of expression does not imply the obligation to finance any opinion through advertisements. Is there a cabinet policy? So it's final? That's how it works. The government may permanently weigh in its role as an advertiser or and where it wants to use advertising spaces. This has led to their suspension in this case. It's not final. That does not necessarily have to be final, but it is a fair response to a cross-border expression which has not for nothing given rise to a great deal of indignation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	Whatever you hope won't happen happens here in the answer. When it comes to a ministry of 50,000 people where there is already a problem of too much macho behaviour and where you want to fight sexism, it is of course strange that it is said: for the time being we have suspended it. I don't care what those sites do, because they have to know that for themselves in the end. We are not talking here about freedom of expression and freedom of the press, but about the question of what we are advertising our ministries, with which we are also sending out a signal that we want to be associated with and not associated with. I do not really hear Minister Asscher saying: we do not think we can do that, then we should not do that anymore, that does not correspond to the charters we have signed and to the fact that we want to radiate that everyone in this country is welcome. That is the kind of argument I expected to hear, but not what is happening here. I ask again: what is the government policy when it comes to advertising on sites or in newspapers and the like that doesn't radiate diversity and inclusiveness and likes to bring out that sexism as a frontrunner? What does the Cabinet think and what is it going to do to ensure that there is a good policy when it comes to where you advertise or not advertise as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	Speaker. Weird, because I thought I had answered that question explicitly, including my view of what happened and why I find it unacceptable. I then gave an exposé on the role of the government in the context of freedom of expression. I will have to repeat that now, even though it may not be pleasant for those present. I indicated that the discussion was triggered by the feeling of female columnists and journalists that they were being treated sexistly for their opinion. That's unacceptable. A cross-border example of this is the call "would you do it?', accompanied by a photo and an invitation to come with sexually tinted compliments, in full knowledge that this leads to rancid comments, which we also see quoted everywhere. Cross-border, extremely hurtful and derogatory, and also a containment, leading to self-censorship among many female publicists. It is right, therefore, that there should be a reaction to this. It is also part of a free debate that people are stirring and that it has been said that advertisers should ask themselves whether this is in line with their values. Next, I said that the government has a special responsibility when it comes to freedom of expression. Citizens and journalists are protected from state interference with the content. That means I have to make a distinction between what I think of all that and how the government handles the advertising space. The government can decide like any other advertiser: I like it or I don't like it. For one you advertise in the dragonfly and for the other you don't. The government does not advertise on pornographic websites, even though that is completely legal. You can make those choices. In this context, the Ministry of Defence and the other departments felt that they should not advertise on this website, indeed in response to this cross-border expression. I do not understand very well what the disappointment of Mrs Belhaj was about my first-term reply, unless she says here that there must be a permanent, definitive boycott of all those sites belonging to this group, but that seems to me to be contrary to freedom of expression. It is a permanent consideration for every advertiser, including the government, whether or not they want to advertise and whether or not that is in line with their values. I agree with Mrs Belhaj in saying that I said in the first part of my reply, "Defense as a recruiting organisation has a particular right and reason to consider what it does with the image of Defence as an organisation that must embrace diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	You may make a final remark, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	I'm sorry. I think it is important that there should be a free social debate, but this is not about freedom of expression or the press. This is what we are talking about, and this is what we are talking about, both business and rationally. If the government feels that sexism is not admissible within its own ministries, there are reports written about the Ministry of Defense, where there is a high degree of macho culture, she cannot say: we find it normal to recruit people on such a site where sexism is quite normal. I do not understand that and I do not think the average Dutchman understands that either. I will probably have to look for other ways, together with my colleagues, not to talk about boycotts, but to force the cabinet to implement good policies here, to be consistent in this and not to say: we are not doing it now, but we are going to do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	The cabinet's in a hell of a twist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	Well, that term's okay, isn't it? Excuse me, spin bibs. On Sunday, two ministers, including a minister of a liberal party, fully supported the action to destroy GeenStijl. Contrary to what D66 says, it is therefore a question of freedom of expression. What's going on? A number of canal belt feminists would like to destroy a website that is politically incorrect. That site must be destroyed by these left-wing people, who hate freedom. How is it that on Sunday two ministers say that they are 100% behind the action, while the cabinet now sends the Deputy Prime Minister here, apparently there is something very bad going on to tell something quite different, namely that it is not a task of politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	First of all, I'm not here because there's something bad going on, but because the Secretary of Defense is absent and I get to replace her. Secondly, I think Mr Bosma's position of victim is wrong. This is a website that distributes and also collects. When you call on people to respond sexually derogatoryly to the question "would you do her?', You have to be able to take it if you're gonna criticize it. Then it is very strange to cry and say: there are left-wing people who want to destroy us. That's bullshit, of course. In the call Schultz and Bussemaker supported, it was not about destroying the site either. The call was: best advertisers, be aware that this call is made on that site and check that it is in accordance with your values. That's the call that was made. Mr Bosma is standing here with a paper in his hand, but his victimism remains. Freedom of expression is only at stake if the government tries to stop expressions. Here, in the free debate, we are discussing what is and is not appropriate. You should support that, regardless of whether that sound comes from the left or from the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	There's only one victim, and that's freedom of speech. Surely it is clear and clear: Ministers Bussemaker and Schultz behind call boycott GeenStijl? There's not a word of Chinese in there, is there? That's a call to destroy GeenStijl by cutting off his only revenue stream. That's what's going on. Another story. Let's go to something else...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u14	Another story?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, something much more important. All kinds of words are now being introduced that are reasons to destroy fellow companies, such as sexism and all kinds of terms that are not legally substantiated. I have here a picture from a newspaper that is politically correct, the NRC Handelsblad. I hope the vice prime minister has his contact lenses in. This is a picture of two buttocks. At the LINDA you can win a gigolo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u16	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u17	Where exactly is the border? What can and can't Vice President Asscher say? Is NRC Handelsblad allowed to depict buttocks? Are you even allowed to raffle a gigolo at the LINDA? Then why shouldn't you ask, "Would you do her?" Where exactly is the border? Which media company should be broken and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u18	First, I'll deal with Bosma's victimization or victimization. No Style. In 2007 GeenStijl called for a boycott of Albert Heijn. In 2010 it was a boycott of the NRC, related to left-wing preschoolers. In 2014 it was a boycott of the HEMA, a call that I think was warmly supported by the PVV... who only wants freedom when it suits... because of the discussion about Black Piet. In other words, websites and expressions to boycott others are possible. Now it happens the other way around, now the question is asked "advertiser, would you do that?', And the country is too small. When is freedom of speech at stake? It is at stake if I, as a government, say whether or not they can depict buttocks, buttocks or whatever you want to call it, whether it's the LINDA, NRC or GeenStijl. Long live freedom! I'm glad you can. But that is something other than the obligation to cooperate as an advertiser. I've explained that, twice. That is why there is also a distinction between what I think of that opinion and how the government treats it as an advertiser. You have a special responsibility for freedom of speech, but it does not go so far as to have an obligation to sponsor everything. It doesn't matter what context it takes, it doesn't matter what happens. Every advertiser has that freedom. You have to understand that. And consistency is not too much to ask when it comes to one of our fundamental fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Deputy Prime Minister is right to refer to the particular responsibility of the government.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'll share that with him. That's a big good. What's also a big good is that we have a government that sets a good example, that doesn't support sexist sites, that doesn't actively support sexist sites financially. That's different from boycotting, that's different from saying you want to ban it. It is about the choices that politics makes about what is and is not financially supported through advertisements. My question to the Deputy Prime Minister is as follows. He was talking about the Department of Defense. The media has shown that the Tax Administration also advertised on GeenStijl. How's that going? Would the cabinet also like to change that, should it be so that the Tax Administration does indeed advertise on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u20	For the Tax Administration, as for other government advertisers, you have the freedom to weigh whether or not you want to advertise on a particular platform, in a particular magazine or in a particular context. In general, this purchase is done blindly and so you end up in places where you have as much reach as possible. Among other things, the task of the Tax Administration is to inform as much as possible. The Dutch tax authorities have also informed the RVD, which coordinates the procurement, that he currently does not need to advertise on those sites. This is not so much because of the overall sexist nature, because it is dangerous to put that on as a stigma at once, but because of the cross-border call we have been discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u21	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u22	Fortunately, we see that many companies are very consciously taking responsibility. This often includes the fact that they have an ethical code and that they think carefully about where they advertise and do not advertise, because they have a certain responsibility. This applies not only to the government, but also to companies. Is that ethical code there when it comes to advertising on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u23	I should check that out. Ethical and responsible buying is a matter of course, but I'm not improvising here. I think that's a question the RVD should answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u24	Perhaps you could promise that the Chamber will be informed by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u25	With all kinds of pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u26	Okay, let's do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u27	We at DENK support the fact that in this particular case, depending on the context, the cabinet draws a line here, although we think that the line may be drawn a little further. We believe that the sponsoring of GeenStijl should simply end. Is the Minister prepared to move this line towards other forms of discrimination with regard to sexism? Think, for example, of Muslim hatred, for example, of anti-Semitism, think of all the other cases that make people in this society feel hurt in one way or another. Is the Minister prepared to move on to other organisations and in this very specific case to GeenStijl?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u28	Let's watch it again. If you discriminate or if you're anti-Semitic, you're acting in violation of the law. For websites that act in violation of the law, the government does not wish to advertise on it. However, Mr Kuzu says that this website is sponsored. You sponsor a Formula 1 car because you want it for your brand, but it's about advertising in paid media. That's just different, because you're less responsible for the content of that media, but you're looking for the range you buy with it. I think you should be careful to be too quick on behalf of the government to engage in far-reaching substantive interference. Why? Because it is also important that unpleasant opinions can be expressed, for example in newspapers and on websites that you can also use for advertisements. If you use that tool too much to influence those opinions, it does affect freedom of expression. Something else is the freedom to say, even as a government, if a border is crossed, yes, but here we do not want to advertise. That's why I like the example of Defense. DOD recruits people there. That means that you are specifically focused on asking people to work at your organization. Then you can make that assessment. So I don't want to make a general line out of the line that already exists, so not on illegal sites and not on pornographic sites plus the freedom of an advertiser to question whether an ad is in line with his reputation and his values. This may indeed be other cross-border or unacceptable behaviour, where appropriate. If a more explicit line is now laid down from the cabinet or the government, this could lead to self-censorship in the worst case. We must avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you.
