ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u851	Dear People's MPs, please take your seats so we can begin our work. I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 191 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Dr Jovana Krkobbiæ, Dusan Mihajlovic, Duško Radenović, Novotni Lasla, Dr Karolj Kasas and Stevan Marinkovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 26 and 27 May 1998. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 26 and 27 May 1998. For 182, it was not against, abstentioned 6, not voted 11, a total of 199 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 26 and 27 May 1998, without objections. You were presented with the minutes of the 1998 session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 28 September 1998. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 1998 session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 28 September 1998. The 186 vote was not against, abstentioned 8, did not vote 7, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 28 September 1998. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. The materials for this session were delivered to you by mail, on 17 October 1998 and delivered before the beginning of the session. Also, before the beginning of the session, you were given a letter informing the National Assembly that a number of legal-technical shortcomings, which should be addressed, were set out in the proposal for a law on public information. The Government therefore established and provided the National Assembly with the consolidated text of the proposal for a Law on Public Information, with appropriate legal and technical changes and additions and concluded that it is withdrawing the text of the Public Information Act of 17 October 1998. The consolidated text of the proposal for a law on public information, submitted by the Government on 19 October, was handed to you before the beginning of the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on the provision of funds to remove the effects of earthquakes in the Kolubar district. In 192, against one, two abstentions were held, no 8. A total of 203 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the consolidated text of the Public Information Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 October 1998, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on public information. The vote was 160, against 42, with no abstentions, not three, a total of 205 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the Police Academy, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the Police Academy. The vote was 162, against 38, abstentioned one, did not vote 8. A total of 209 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on Violations, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law supplementing the Law on Violations. There were 159, 43 against, one abstention, no four votes, a total of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 5. National MPs Slobodan Nenadovic, Dr Milan Popovic and Dr Jordan Lazarevic, suggested that an emergency procedure be considered, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 1998. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I would like to put to the vote the motion of MPs Slobodan Nenadovic, Dr Milan Popovic and Dr Jordan Lazarevic to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998. 43, against 150, with three abstentions, did not vote five, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Six. National MP Dr Radosav Jovic suggested that the draft law amending the Social Insurance Contributions Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on July 31st, 1998, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. (We have quorum) I would like to put Dr Radosav Jovic's proposal to be voted on by an urgent procedure to consider the draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Contributions. For 42, 160 against, two abstentions, four did not vote, a total of 208 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposals for withdrawing certain points from the proposed agenda. National MP Milan Mikovic, president of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group, suggested that a second item be withdrawn from the draft agenda -- a proposal for a law on public information. Does MP Milan Mikovic want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u852	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have been informed that the government has withdrawn the draft law since 17 October and reportedly delivered a consolidated text of the Public Information Bill and that some legal-technical shortcomings have been corrected. This is not intended for our Rules of Procedure, nor is it possible to do such a thing. A legal-technical deficit cannot be considered if a fine of 200 to 400,000 dinars is foreseen, that the fine is now 400 to 800,000 dinars. It's not a legal-technical correction. So, we need to be clear about what a legal-technical correction is, is there a word, is it a fall, is it something like that? Let's not play, so we're a serious body, an extremely serious body, and now, right now, when the government withdraws its basic proposal, when there's no basic proposal, we have something that isn't, therefore, what changes can change by amendment, not by amendment, but by this way trying to do something like that. That's one of the reasons, the new reason, and the other thing is -- there's been a proposal that this law goes according to an emergency procedure. Please, it has become a rule, not an exception, to make regulations based on this provision from our Rules of Procedure. However, the Rules of Procedure say, "The law can also be passed exceptionally by emergency procedure." Only legislation can be passed following an urgent procedure, which regulates the issues and the circumstances that have arisen, and the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences. So we can't discuss this when it comes to an emergency procedure, but we can point out that this is not the way it can and can't be done. The next thing you know, the law contained regulates a part of the matter from the rights and freedom of the citizens, according to our Constitution. Therefore, it is extremely serious matter, a matter to which attention should be paid, not today, to obtain the text of the arranged proposal and to declare ourselves today. I'll tell you, I believe that many of you have, too, received 66 pages of written text, we have received from people who deal with this matter, from various associations, who have given us serious objections, and for which we have not been given the opportunity in any way to look at them, to study them, and to put some suggestions, or certain amendments, on the basis of them, to correct something like that. I call on you, protect the reputation of Parliament and MPs. We cannot represent the serious, or most serious people in Serbia, at least right now, as we are given confidence, and act in a way that is absolutely opposite to one serious, extremely serious business that we are dealing with. I'll tell you one more thing. In the system of sanctions, where fines are intended, it is certain that it must in some way be in agreement with one another. We have the maximum penalty for a crime as the most difficult form of illicit conduct of 50,000 new dinars, and when it comes to favorability, it can go up to 200,000 new dinars. We suggest that for a violation, which is the easiest form of illicit behavior and in terms of which it is undoubtedly less social danger, we are predicting punishment now in this new text of 400 to 800,000 dinars. We've turned everything upside down, and that's how we want to pass one regulation today and defend that regulation and not admit that we've somehow broken the whole situation. Let me do one more thing. This provision, which is proposed, e.g. in the Law on Infringements, that in cases relating to information, penalties may be more, that is the only thing where the above limit is not foreseen and that, by any law, any new law amending and supplementing the Information Act, we can provide for any maximum penalty for a violation, although in the Law on Infringements is a basic law for this moment, for both legal persons and for individuals and for all others. For these reasons, we are obviously not in a situation where, in the right way, we can, in a serious way, be responsible for regulating this matter and I think that, in the interests of all of us, both citizens and the state and the information and constitutional freedoms in this country, we should withdraw this bill, and after a serious debate, it should not take too long, following the respect of all of our opinions that we are then deciding to pass a new law, unless what has been asked of it has been fulfilled so far. And I'm not sure there were any specific items in which there was a disturbance in the existing Information Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u853	Does a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Milan Mikovic to withdraw from the draft agenda the second point of the proposal for a law on public information. The vote was 47, against 164, and no one was abstentioned, no voted four, a total of 215 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item - Changes in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that this point be considered as the fifth item of the agenda. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to supplement this session's agenda to the point of the "Modification of the Government of the Republic of Serbia" agenda and to consider this point as the fifth item of the agenda. The vote was 173, against 16, with a abstention of 17, was not voted by 9, a total of 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The committees, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will, if they have not already done so, submit their reports or opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. The vote was 163, against 40, with four abstentions, not nine, with a total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, in general. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text on the agenda of the session and hand it over to the MPs. DAY RED TO: 1. Proposal for a law on the security of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Public Information, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Law on the Police Academy, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Changes in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. The draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Yugoslav Left Parliamentary Group. Before moving to work on the agenda of this session, it is necessary for the National Assembly to make a decision on Members of the National Assembly at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision taken by the Administrative Board. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 203, no one against, the two abstentions, voted 9, a total of 214 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on Members of the People on Permanent Work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda - a proposal for a Security Law for the ATTENDANCE OF THE COUNTRY OF THE LANDS IN THE COLOBER COUNTRY You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MP, Dr. Stevan Vrbaki, to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u854	Dear People's MPs, you have before you a bill on the security of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubara region. In late September this year, a devastating earthquake hit municipalities in the Kolubar region, Mionica, Ljig, Ub, Lajkovac and Valjevo. Preliminary estimates show that the damage was much greater than it seemed in the first wave. About a thousand houses are damaged and practically unusable for housing. This means that damaged houses need to be torn down and built entirely new buildings. For a large number of residential, business facilities of social activity and infrastructure -- over five thousand -- reconstruction and serious repairs need to be done to enable them to return to office. The biggest damage is in the municipality of Mininica, and the total damage in the region, according to first estimates, is over a billion dinars. In addition, damage has also been suffered by municipalities around the Kolubar region and by a number of other towns in Serbia. Proposing today's law, the government of the Republic of Serbia had in mind the highest willingness of political leadership and the citizens of our country, to help all together in solidarity to remove the consequences of the earthquake. In doing so, it is an obligation for the state authorities to act effectively and to allow the aid to be realised within the shortest time limit. At the same time with these actions in our Republic, it would be necessary for the federal government to look at and propose appropriate measures at the country's level. We are sure that, as in the past, such broader solidarity will not be left for this occasion. As regards the instruments for providing funds, it is proposed that the contribution to solidarity at a rate of 0.15% be paid by all participants to the amount of payment transactions, with certain exceptions set out in the law. It is a minimum rate which provides the necessary resources on the broadest basis and in the simplest way. It is estimated that the adoption of this law would provide funding of around ninety million dinars per month, or about a billion and 100 million per year. So far, no time limit has been proposed. This will be done later when a definitive amount of damage is determined. The most important thing now is that the relief actions resulting from the earthquake are as effectively organized as possible. In a very short time it is necessary to tear down the most damaged objects and build new ones. This action has already begun. Also, it is necessary to implement the intended reconstruction of other objects. The competent national authorities, the damage assessment committee, should act operationally and take care of the overall organisation of the job, the spending of the funds and their dedicated use. Labour performers have special obligations, to carry out all commitments within the agreed deadlines, so that citizens in the affected area can quietly welcome winter. With everything in mind, and in particular the need for activities to be carried out within the shortest time, I suggest that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u855	Thank you. I have registered MPs who want to speak at this point. First, the People's MP Miroslav Srekovic came forward, and let the MP Predrag Savik be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u856	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs and members of the government, I feel obliged to inform you as an MP from the Kolubar district area about the earthquake, its consequences and what we have done during this short period of time. The main disaster affected almost the entire area of the Kolubar district, with the greatest damage on the territory of the municipality of Mininica, where it was the epicenter of the earthquake, and then the territory of Ljiga, Ub, Lajkovec and Valjev was affected. The earthquake was of great destructive power, 8 degrees of Mercali's scale or 5 degrees of Richter's scale, and it was fortunate that it was at a depth of 16 km, because its destructive power would be much greater. According to the situation recorded so far, and about 80% of the reported entities have been reviewed, it has been found that about two thousand buildings are being destroyed, of which 712 will immediately be destroyed and started to build, in order to take care of the families they need to live in by winter. With the destruction and construction of the remaining facilities will begin in the spring, because for these families the necessary accommodation is provided during this winter period. In addition, about 5,000 facilities have been found to require a larger or smaller recovery. The facilities of individual households, business facilities, state and judicial bodies, such as Mionica and Ub, then schools, health institutions, objects representing cultural, historical and spiritual value, such as: the house of Živojina Misic, the tower of Nenadovic in Valjevo, the old charter of Tešnar in Valjevo, the monasteries and churches in Mionica, Rabrovica, Bogovadji, Bau, Cvetanovo and elsewhere. Water lines, power grids and other facilities have also been damaged. A particular problem is schools, so some of them cannot teach, but they do so in inadequate facilities. The biggest damage is at Mininica Elementary School, where classes take place in one building in three shifts, with short class hours. There are also no classes in many out-of-state departments, such as places:Seljenica, Mrčić, Petnica, Donja Toplica and Rajkovic due to severely damaged buildings. The entire third floor of the High School in Liga is out of use and there is no teaching. There are major damages to the business facilities, above all in Mionica, such as "Krusik - precise liv", "Metal", "Termoelectrico-Hourn", "Termoelectrico - Kolubara", "Fima", "Suvoborka", Farm in Radobic, then "Krusik" in Valjeva and "Tamnavac" in Ub. But in addition to these difficulties, the work was not interrupted, except at the Dark One Ub, where two days of work was interrupted. Infrastructure facilities were damaged, and the most water and water network in Mionica were damaged, so the first few days water was brought from Valjev to be used by citizens from Valjev. There have been significant damages to the power grid and to the road network, such as a larger slope on the Ibari Masteral near Ljig, and a number of bridges on the territory of the Kolubar Orkuga have been damaged. It should be noted that the subsequent earthquakes, especially the major earthquake of the 13th 10th of this year, have also caused subsequent damage. I think this is the time to tell what's been done. At first moment, it was most important to organise and go to the most vulnerable areas, encourage citizens, take measures to preserve the health of citizens and prevent epidemics, which are always regular followers of such accidents. She stays on the ground daily, and she immediately received help. The government of Mirko Marjanovic directed great support and assistance through the direct engagement and engagement of members of the government on the ground, and the first aid came from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the next day after the earthquake, sending 50,000 creps and financial aid of six million and six thousand dinars, which allowed one part of the facilities with minor damage to them to be able to recover immediately. A little later, aid from the federal government amounted to 600 million dinars, and it was immediately hired to purchase construction material. It is mentioned significantly that the Yugoslav Army immediately came to the aid and provided tents for the temporary housing of the most vulnerable families, and offered other assistance, above all in the workforce and construction operation. In all of this, it is important to point out that the assistance, which continues to arrive, should go through district and municipal headquarters, because the job of removing the earthquake is, above all, the obligation, the duty and responsibility that lies with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Government and their authorities. I must say that the people of the Kolubar district had suffered a dignified loss of roof over their heads, especially when he was aware that Serbia and Yugoslavia were in direct war danger during that period. President Slobodan Milosevic's visit, immediately after the end of difficult and difficult negotiations with representatives of the international community and their successful completion, defending the interests of our people and the state, has particularly encouraged the citizens and I am obliged to express my gratitude to the citizens on his messages, suggestions and views, which meant a great deal to the people of our end. The natural disaster has occurred, left severe consequences and major damage to the objects, but in all of this, the most important thing is that human victims were gone. It remains to continue to organize itself, to resuscitate itself until winter, to build as much as possible, and to continue to work in the spring. In our area, it was decided to begin the destruction of 712 objects immediately on 19 October 1998 and, of course, to begin their construction immediately. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all those who immediately and during these 20 days in any way have tried to help the people of the Kolubari region. Given everything forward, I believe that the law, which we are discussing today, is well-conceived, guarantees a safe source of income and is applicable for a longer period of time. That's why I suggest we all push for his adoption and start working right away.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u857	Thank you. The People's Messenger Predrag Savic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Ljubivoa Davidovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u858	Dear President, distinguished fellow MPs, an earthquake that hit the Kolubar district on September 30th this year must have caused far greater damage than it did right after the first reports. Our public was not sufficiently informed about the size and severity of the damage caused by this earthquake and was thought to be insignificant, given the lack of human casualties. It's certainly a good thing there were no human victims, but the subsequent tour of the terrain showed that the degree of destruction was far greater and that a large number of objects were seriously damaged and not for use. According to current reports by the republican commissions, which are not yet final, in the area of the municipality of Mionica, Ljiga, Lajkovac, Ub and Valjev, about 2,000 residential buildings are not for use and fall within the category of demolition facilities. Over 5,000 houses have to be seriously rehabilitated and repaired. In addition to residential facilities in the district, production and economic capacities have been seriously damaged, primarily "Metal"-Mionica, "Fima" - Mininica, "Krusik - precise liv" - Mininica, "Tamnavac" - Ub and many others. There are significant damage to municipal facilities, roads, bridges, water and sewerage systems, electrical and PTT networks. A large number of state institutions have no space for work, and several schools are not for use, so students use temporary teaching facilities. Many cultural and historical monuments have been damaged or permanently destroyed, including the house Živojina Misic, Kula Nenadovic, Stari Tešnar and others. Immediately after the earthquake, all measures have been taken to provide the most necessary accommodation for families who have lost their roof over their heads and to organize assistance for those who need help most. A recent visit by the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, the Valjevic region and its tour of the earthquake area were a direct boost for citizens and local self-government to move more resolutely towards the damages suffered after the earthquake, so that on this site, on behalf of the Yugoslav Left and citizens of the Kolubar district, I thank President Milosevic for his visit and his campaign for the urgent construction of new housing facilities, not just the rehabilitation and repair of the existing ones. The suffering people realized that they would not remain alone in trouble, and the belief that by the beginning of winter new houses would be built for those whose homes were permanently damaged came from the highest place and the people believed those promises. Otherwise, the earthquake hit the most rural areas, aging households that have no opportunity to cover the old ones, let alone build new houses. The solidarity aid that has arrived and is coming from the Federal Government, the Republic Government, economic collectives, various organizations and associations, political parties, citizens from all over our country, is certainly evidence of great solidarity and the people of this region is therefore grateful to all those who have found the opportunity at this moment and have provided assistance. The damage and destruction are very high. The number of families that do not have a roof over their heads is also large and therefore the state's assistance is necessary and necessary at this point. The federal and republican government's one-time assistance is welcome, but also insufficient, and I therefore believe that the legal solution offered to provide for the removal of earthquake-related funds submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be supported by all MPs in the republic's parliament in order to remove the consequences as soon as possible, given the coming winter. The proposed law provides for the inflow of the necessary funds in a very efficient way and its effects will be visible immediately. The way to collect the contribution to solidarity through the Payment Service, immediately after the transaction has been completed, is very practical and ensures a rapid inflow of funds to remove the consequences of the earthquake, which is most important at this point. In addition, the proposed law does not violate the existing fiscal burden system in the Republic and therefore does not additionally burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, by collecting a solidarity contribution from payment participants, more specifically from legal entities and entrepreneurs, there will be no direct blow to the lives and standards of citizens. The financial effects, which would be achieved through the adoption of this law, are large and would significantly cover the costs of the damage caused by the earthquake. Dear People's MPs, the necessity of rapid intervention due to the expected cold and the need to ensure that normal living conditions are faster for the population, and therefore I think that the proposed law should be adopted and the conditions for immediate resolution should therefore be ensured by this earthquake.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u859	Thank you. There is the word of the People's Messenger Davidović to Ljubivoa, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Peručić.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u860	Dear People's MPs, 20 days after the devastating earthquake, with an epicenter in the belly of Mlaljen Mountain, most affected by the municipality of Mininica, and then the municipality of Ljig, Lajkovac, Ub and Valjevo, can be told with full responsibility that we have full insight into the situation, both as a result of this disaster and in the situation of damage to each individual object in the mentioned municipalities. We have a comprehensive program of how to put under the roof 712 houses in the shortest time, and that deadline is until December 21st, to tear down everything that is for demolition, to build and put under the roof 712 houses, and the rest of them are like winter to start rebuilding and resuscitating all marked objects in the spring, and there are thousands of them. These aren't just words on paper, because everything I've said has started and is happening in the field a lot. I want, honourable MPs, to thank from this place the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, and to express my deep respect for the state gesture which he has owed this entire region, in the first place with his visit, which came in a delicate hour after the difficult negotiations on fateful issues for our country, and then on an absolutely founded vision and practical solutions that he has exposed to us on the spot, which have besieged the people, raised hope and made a commitment before all of us to move quickly, not only in the reconstruction, but also in the development. President Milosevic, with his associates, freely I can say, encouraged little and big in our area, instigated all of our creative forces and feelings that we are not alone, that Serbia and Yugoslavia are behind us. The descendants of the Duke of Mishic, all the people of the glorious Kolubara, will remember it, and they will appreciate it. Dear MPs, over 1,000 houses are for demolition only in the municipality of Minica. A large number of objects are scheduled for various phases of recovery. The Myonical business facilities, "Krusik -Precise Liv", "Termoelectrico-model", "Termoelectrico - Kolubara", "Fima", "Suvoborka", farm in Radobic, as well as cooperative facilities of business premises in Mionica, Gornja and Donjo Toplica, Rajković and Berkovac were seriously damaged. There are also significant damages to the facilities of Banja Vrujci, and there has been a significant drop in the yield of a source of medicinal water. Many myonic schools, some of which are for demolition, have been damaged. It's about 10 school buildings. The building of the municipality of Mininica, built at the beginning of this century, has also suffered major damage. The buildings of the House of Health, the Cultural Centre, the Library, kindergartens and local offices have been significantly damaged. Of the cultural and historical monuments the most affected was the home house of Duke Živojin Mišic in Strugannik and the church in Mionica. All of this should also be accompanied by major damage to municipal infrastructure facilities, especially the water system, roads, power grids. Many economic goods on farm property have suffered greatly. This is a roughly narrow list of priority jobs and tasks, and we have fully understood the words of President Milosevic - to go to work immediately. Winter is coming, the honourable messengers, every day it is shortening, and we have stood hard behind all winter waiting under the roof. She stood behind it not only Mininica, not only Kolubara, but also Serbia. Every help is welcome and we are grateful to receive it. No kind of help will be forgotten, but Serbia's biggest aid is the state of Serbia and I am from this place in favour of accepting the proposed law, as well as our maximum, responsible and host approach to its implementation. I'm sure we'll soon come to this high house proud of what we did for Mionica and the whole earthquake hit the end. According to President Milosevic, it is about Serbia's heart, and it is beating heavily at this hour, in an effort to build on the new foundations everything that has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u861	Thank you, and before I give the next speaker a word, please turn off your cell phones and don't use them in the O.R. We've already warned you, and I hope you'll respect that. There is a word from MP Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy considers the principles of solidarity and assistance to those who are threatened above all else. This is why the New Democracy will vote in favour of this bill and we believe it is good to respond in this way and we believe that the Government will find the most effective mechanisms in the collection, means that full control is provided in the collection of funds provided for by this law, to ensure full control of the spending of these funds, and to ensure that no one is threatened and who is affected remains uninterrupted. I hope it's the government's intention and I believe it. That is why we will vote in favour of this law and therefore support the government that, if the need arises from current budget reserves and in other ways, we will provide the necessary resources for everyone, if possible before winter, to solve the problems that they, not their own fault, have faced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u863	I thank you, the Messenger of the people, Zlatan Peručić, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dragan Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u864	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the drama that has hit us during these past months in the state drama in Kosovo and Metohija and the unprecedented international pressures that we are exposed to, it seemed that the Kolubara earthquake has hit us less than it would otherwise be normal and less than its situation justifies. I wouldn't even talk about this cynicism about foreign media, but our media, one part of them, gave this elemental disaster a character of a transient one, one that we'll forget as soon as the first fear goes by, as if it didn't leave any consequences behind. Unfortunately, we now see that this has affected and that this has affected the overall public opinion, when we, of course, with the exception of all those who have found themselves in humanitarian action, are primarily the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and of all the organisations that have found themselves there. No wonder it was only a visit from Yugoslavia's president to this neighborhood that brought into the homes of ordinary Yugoslavs and a picture of the scales of this disaster. Serbia is in such a situation today that most of the consequences must be removed on their own. She cannot rely on the help of others or those she has helped so many times in similar situations. I think completely personally, and we helped in similar situations and former brothers, both former and present neighbors, and yet almost no one answered. I don't think we should be angry. We'll help again, and they'll think about why they didn't help us. There's the impression that the right proportions of damage and information in the world, the right proportions of damage, fortunately only material, we haven't done enough ourselves. I guess that's how it happened in the world media that an imaginary humanitarian disaster in Kosovo was constantly a topic ahead of the other, which unfortunately was a real humanitarian disaster. I don't remember a single observer of the Red Cross, a humanitarian who visited this region. I know it's not easy, and it's probably not popular to propose and advocate new contributions and new fiscal burdens in a situation where there's not enough money anywhere, and the existing donations are messy and incomplete. However, allow me to point out several facts about this, and also as chairman of the Finance Committee. First of all, I think it's the proper definition of the government to single out additional funds for the end and families affected by the earthquake, and we know that neither these neighborhoods, and even fewer of those families, are able to remove the damage themselves. This is an example of a situation where the state has to do and return at least part of what it gets from its citizens. Secondly, in the conditions in which we are all together, we must distribute the total resources in the way that is most just. Earthquakes are one of the most impressive crises in all. They guess without distinction, poor and rich, equally, but in eliminating their consequences, we can't all contribute equally. They have to contribute more to those who have more. I'd say earthquakes don't suffer the logic of the market. They seek the logic of solidarity, human and national. Thirdly, this is a good example of a situation in which to work quickly, because winter is coming, and perhaps actions in the recovery of damage in these parts will be a way for us all to learn one other way of working, efficient, without bureaucratic stretching and unnecessary administration, with greater confidence in man, but also with more control than abuses normally do. Fourthly, the main burden, if not financially, should also be borne, of course and richer and better standing firms, businesses etc. But this is also a chance to employ many construction companies, to employ many industries and construction and other materials, to employ people, not only to be the solidarity which is the basis but also to be the means to enable them to work, hire, function in the interest and of course exclusively in the interest of repairing damages, but also a development function that with not small money can be provided for part of our economy. The government's draft law is based on good traditions of solidarity so often expressed in various accidents, most often, as I said, outside Serbia and far beyond Serbia's headquarters. We show that solidarity today with that part of our people that's been affected by the accident. Fund-raising techniques will be realised through that process which an ordinary citizen should not feel much and which ensures accurate monitoring of the collection and spending of funds, payment traffic. With the effective control of the allocation of funds of solidarity, their rapid collection and deployment in office, I would say that it will be a small or quite insignificant impact on everyday life for great help, for a great chance, for the solidarity and development that will be given to this end. Once again, again and again, it always shows that if we're good hosts, then we're hosts and ourselves, because we ourselves need to solve this elemental adverse and disaster that happened, alone, and only ourselves. And it turns out that we can do it, no matter what the great world will do to help an individual, something else entirely, and he didn't pay any attention to this. And, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the Finance Committee has adopted the law in detail, which you have been given a report on, however, and for the following debates, let me just ask one more government representative to confirm what is clearly explained on the Committee on the very constructive issues of MPs. The name of the law is, according to the government's explanation, related to the epicenter of the earthquake. The implementation of the law is not about administrative, but about territorial impact, which has been raised as a question by individual MPs on the Committee, and representatives of the government have assured that the consequences of the earthquake will be resolved wherever they arise. That's one thing, and the clarification about Article 4. is given. That's what I'm saying because of the amendment so we don't stay long. Around Article 4, Article 1 states "in accordance with the law" and that means that the means of self-delivery are exempt from these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u865	There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov and let the MP Tihomir Marjanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u866	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the voters who voted for the Vojvodina Coalition, I cannot vote for this law. We expected the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come out today with a report on what the government has done so far and may have submitted information on what the Red Cross has done in this area. As we understand it, the government has paid off the budget so far and given about 500-600 thousand dollars for this area. This isn't the Solidarity Act. Solidarity is based on compassion and volunteering. This is a new load. This is a new tax. Is 0.15% here, is one percent there, is 3% here, percent by percent increasing the burden of our entire economy. What we in Vojvodina feel is that when disaster occurs, even relatively smaller proportions such as this, because it covers the Kolubara region, the entire economy should jump, and when droughts, floods, winds, financial catastrophes occur, which also affect Vojvodina, Serbia does not jump. The peasants... silence, slow, slow (response to comment from the hall), Vojvodina is not Serbia, you will learn that one day, slowly, slowly. But it's in Serbia. You'll learn the same thing. No sunflower has been paid to farmers in Vojvodina since 1996. This is Minister Babovic. It's almost an elemental natural disaster. The price of wheat and corn is at the level of 1996. There are no compensations for the Duke's farmers. Last and previous winter, the towns of Vrsac, Bela Church, Zrenjanin, Pancheva and some others ran out of gas during the winter period to leave Belgrade. There was no concern for citizens, which would be alternatively heated, there was no reduction in the winter price of electricity, nor was there any supply of coal or wood from Serbia to save this people. This summer there was a heavy drought in Vojvodina, which hit the crop. There's no compensation. This summer in July was the largest typhoon hit by Pančevački and Zrenjaninski County, which hit thousands of houses, took the ticks no less than in the Kolubar region, broke windows and the like. There was nothing to help Vojvodina. He's always moving out of Vojvodina. It is stalling despite saying there is no humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. From Vojvodina, construction materials, food and food are constantly being dragged away from our recruits and who are shooting at our officers. With what right do we say that there is no humanitarian disaster if we feed our enemy? There are no markets in Vojvodina, in shops, in sugar or in rabbits. In Kosovo, it is sold in the streets, from the so-called humanitarian aid. Who are you...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u867	I ask MP Veselinov to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u868	I'll get right to it. What we have to tell the population who is unable to be taken care of in a timely manner must be taken care of until winter, but the state institutions, the electricity industry, the travel network, the pipeline, the sewerage, the state building, have no right to finance from 0.15%. These are all institutions secured by insurance institutions and they have the right and by ensuring institutions are obliged to pay compensation. They don't need help for that amount of money. Someone can't even get compensation from an insurance company and the whole economy jumps for him and fund him unlimitedly. At the same time, a number of houses are also secured by an insurance company, a private house, and they have no right to help from these funds. They also have the right to help from the state budget, to put people under the roof, under the tent, whether these are installation facilities, food, etc. It has to be given and there's no doubt there, but to finance the economy of building new houses, those that are secured by the insurance company -- that can't be done. Finally, we believe that the Red Cross of Serbia must do far more to provide private homes, not state institutions and houses. Finally, there is no reason not to believe that aid from abroad could come, humanitarian aid, but it is time for us to stop arguing with abroad, so that this assistance finally comes to us, not just to go to Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u869	He has the word Vojislav Seselj, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Veselinov's presentation is probably not suitable for a replica, for a parliamentary debate, but it is also appropriate to write an essay entitled "True and Lie in Politics". And it is not the first time that Mr. Vesenov comes forward in this way in the National Assembly and his entire party is known for such political attitudes and for such behaviour. Mr. Veselinov has made a lot of lies about this pay phone. First, Mr. Vesenov says the government of Serbia and the state of Serbia has not been assisted by farmers - farmers in Vojvodina. About five billion dinars, this government has invested in agriculture, not only in this government, but also in the Federal Government and the Federal Assembly, with the moss in Vojvodina. The federal government and the Federal Assembly of nearly two billion dinars, turning loans into long-term bonds of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has more than a billion dinars through the Agricultural Budget, and almost twice as much money through various tax exemptions for several previous years, and various other payments to agricultural organisations. This is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for agriculture, primarily for the agriculture of Vojvodina, because duchy agriculture makes up a groiss of agricultural production in Serbia. And, following major natural disasters in one part of Bacak, in the area of Bačka Petrovac, the Serbian government intervened, part of the aid was directed and long-term promised to make some investment to improve the lives of residents, who this year were most at risk of the city. Serbia's government has never fed Cypriot terrorists. We help citizens, people, civilians, and when we collect food across Serbia, we refer to Kosovo and Metohija, this food is directed to civilians, not terrorists. What Mr. Vesenov is against, for our economy, is neither a particular nor a great burden. It is 0.15% on all financial transactions, with the exceptions indicated. The government of the Republic of Serbia sent 6,000,000 dinars of aid immediately after the earthquake. We didn't hit all the bells, we didn't brag, we didn't take a picture, we didn't take a picture, like some of them that go off a two or three rips, so you do the math, if there's one penny, how much money, how many scratches on one boot can fit and how much is it when it's calculated. We didn't send any dollars, Mr. Weslinov, about which 500-600 thousand dollars are you talking about? We only pay the dinars. Those who pay you, they pay those dollars, and you seem to forget, forget about the basic means of paying in our country, forget about the dinars, it's all for you. Everything we count, we count in dinars, and as you can see, Mr. Vesenov, the dinar under this government of Serbia is very, very stable.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u871	I appreciate it. National MP Dragan Veselinov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u872	I thank Mr. Seselj, who gives me an extraordinary opportunity to address him now. Nothing the Serbian government does in the Vojvodina agriculture or Serbia. What the Serbian government does in agriculture is monopson, which is a monopoly price on the side of demand, and the only state has the right to buy agricultural products of strategic importance in Vojvodina, and in Serbia as well, in the Macva and in the Pomorava region. It's about wheat and corn. The only government has the right, and its institution, which it has appointed, is to buy wheat, corn and other cultures of strategic interest. He's deliberately buying at low prices. These products go to very special organizations, which then acquire and the special right to export these products. The wheat in Vojvodina is at the level of prices from 1996. I repeat, corn too. The sunflower hasn't been paid since last year, and the sugar tail hasn't been paid. If the Serbian government does as much as you say about the Vojvodina farm, then in Vojvodina they would have to bloom roses, then peasants would not stand as they are today, and we know many bosses in Vojvodina, who are unable to pay for electricity, who are unable to provide children with books now, in the autumn, new clothes and shoes, and these are the truths. We're not telling any lies. You claim there is no humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. Who are you sending help to then? And that's the tow truck, the tow truck and the tow truck. And the parties are bragging about how they're organizing that help. Who? Why are the products there on the markets, and why aren't there sugar and bacon in Vojvodina? That's what we're talking about. If there is no humanitarian disaster, stop sending products to Kosovo. And the people of Vojvodina are hungry. When are we going to wait once for Serbia to help us, for once something to be given to us, when it's dry, when is the flood? It's true, you freed the peasants to pay taxes, because in the meantime you didn't pay for agricultural products, so you freed the peasants from the obligation to pay taxes. Then what do you do, if you buy a tractor (and a minority can do it), who will register it? He can't register a tractor because he didn't pay his taxes. There's nothing to help. You're making a mess. The peasants are poor. You don't throw the fertilizer away and now you won't throw yourself everywhere. The MPK is not working, poverty is great and do not convince the duchy peasants that they are well. And when I was talking about 500-600 thousand dollars, you don't have to brag about how much you've given, because with that amount of 6,000,000 dinars, practically for the Colubarian region you haven't done anything at all. That's very small. You need Milosevic to get on your feet, because he's tearing it down further there. After the earthquake, he knocks down the houses again, so he makes you invest, otherwise you wouldn't remember, you'd stay for this 500-600 thousand dollars, 6,000,000 dinars, and that's all your help. We're not against help. We are in favour of helping private homes, state institutions cannot, they are secured by the DOZ, and those from these funds have to be repaired.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u873	He has the word Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u874	Mr. Vesenov is resorting to lies again. The state of Serbia and the government of Serbia is making all its commitments orderly to the peasants. The peasants are owed by companies, not by the state. The state only buys surpluses of agricultural products and wheat countries far more expensive salaries than the price on the world market. The state pays 20 pfening, (only you laugh from the Serbian fraud movement, you know everything). The state pays 20 pfening per kilogram for wheat, since you prefer those prices to be expressed, and on the world market, the price of wheat is 12 pfening per kilogram. And now that we're exporting, we need to export about a million tons of wheat, we're exporting that wheat eight pfenings per kilogram cheaper than we paid for it ourselves. It is a conscious victim of the government, knowingly investing in agriculture, in order to preserve agricultural production, in conditions of unfavourable prices on the world market. As for Kosovo and Metohija, our reference to help is not proof that there is a humanitarian disaster there. We're giving help so there won't be a humanitarian disaster. So, it's a preventive sending aid to Kosovo and Metohija, and where this humanitarian disaster -- there's nowhere to go, there's no big groups of people in the woods, there's mountains, there's Western media, but there's people whose houses are damaged, or destroyed, who have lost their jobs, no basic means of living, and the Serbian government is there to help them. It helps civilians, not terrorists. On the one hand, you say -- it helps in a humanitarian disaster, on the other hand -- it helps terrorists, there's no end to it. As for the smuggling channels, which continue to go oil, sugar, and other strategic life supplies, these smuggling channels have been pretty narrowed down over the last few months. They still exist, and the Department of Commerce will be even more rigorous in their repression.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u875	Thank you. There's a word from MP Tihomir Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u876	Mr. President, gentlemen of the presidency, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I know what damage the earthquake caused in the Colubary County and I support their help. But I applied for a discussion on this first item of the agenda to talk about the damage caused by the earthquake of 30 September 1998 and the Pozeg municipality. Gentlemen, you know, on one side of Mount Malen, where he was the epicenter of the earthquake, there is a large part of the territory of Požeg municipality. The earthquake affected many villages of the municipality of Požeg, even the city of Požeg itself. On her part, Požega Municipality reacted immediately by forming an expert commission on the first day after the earthquake, which was assigned to report immediately to the public and to make an insight on the site and to determine the damage. Clearly, the municipal leadership is monitoring the full work. The Commission has reviewed over 110 damaged facilities, and I have this valid document, including two primary schools. Their evaluation-based expert proposal is next. First, it takes 28 buildings or houses to tear down and build new ones because the existing ones do not meet even the minimum living conditions. Second, it is necessary to reassess, or reconstruct, over 80 objects, with the masquerade of a house for housing. Finally, the assessment of the real-price expert commission, moving in the territory of the municipality of Požega, is that all of this requires the provision of funds, for which I have a document. First, for the construction of new buildings 8,526,000 dinars, for the reconstruction or reconstruction of 12,455,800,00 dinars, totalling 20,981.800,00 dinars. Dear Members, you will understand that this amount for a smaller municipality such as Požega is quite large and therefore needs help from a wider social community. So once again, gentlemen of Parliament, I ask you to take care of all the areas affected by this catastrophic earthquake and clearly the Požega municipality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u877	Thank you. There is a word from MP Slobodan Nenadovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u878	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I am unusually sorry that this issue, the issue of the Serbian people's accident, is being politicised, used to open some other political issues, even by top officials of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It just doesn't make sense. In the middle of last week, SPO MPs from Valjev submitted to the assembly a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax for 1998, with a proposal to adopt the law as an emergency procedure. We did not wait for anyone to come to Valjevo and our end and explain on the spot the consequences of the earthquake. The essence of our proposal is not to introduce a new tax burden, but to increase the share that municipalities, threatened by the earthquake, already have in their existing sales tax. Meanwhile, the government of the Republic of Serbia has offered its bill. Representatives of the government, with whom we contacted yesterday, assured us that more significant financial resources will be achieved on the basis of this legislative project, urgently needed at the moment. This belief is the essential reason that we were prepared, of course, now that the law has already been withdrawn, that we withdraw our legal proposal, that is, that the SPO Parliament Club votes in favour of the government's bill. Let me say the following. In my Valjev region, the people and families of the weaker property, the helpless old-age households, who, unfortunately, are very much in our villages, suffered. They need help first, because they have nowhere to go. We are looking at the SPO, if it is not too strong, I would say and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to strictly take care of the fair and fair distribution of assistance. Any duplication by any party, political or other irrational principle, which unfortunately there is, must be treated as crime. Although the consequences of the earthquake are the largest in the Valjev region, I would ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this was explained by the President of the Committee to find a way, I understood that the way had already been found, that according to this law certain aid was also defined for those municipalities, which are lying in part of their territory in the epicentral area. Of course, damages are present elsewhere. In Belgrade, as far as I am informed, more than 100 objects have been significantly damaged. However, the Belgrade Assembly Executive Board found a way not only to repair the damages in Belgrade with its own resources, but to help the citizens of the municipality of Minica first or among the first major ones. It would have to be a pattern of both responsible and humane conduct. At the very end, citizens of the Valjev region, who are now in an urgent need of material and other assistance, expect appropriate solidarity and citizens of Montenegro, who, in turn, were faced with the same trouble, a Valjevic end, and the whole of Serbia were selflessly helped. I must say that there are certain indications that assistance from Montenegro will quickly follow. Probably because of the lack of information on earthquake ratios, so far, every solidarity from Macedonia has lagged. Valevci believe Skopje did not forget Serbia's brotherly assistance when Skopje was the hardest. The SPO invites representatives of all humanitarian organisations from around the world, as well as foreign diplomatic representatives to tour the Valjev region and get acquainted with earthquake ratios. So far from all over the world to the people of central Serbia, unfortunately, but also to shame, I would say, no single aid package has arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u879	Thank you. There is a word from the MP of the people, Fevzija Muric, and let the MP Dražimir Marusic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u880	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I fully agree and accept the proposed law and the idea of helping citizens who have suffered a disaster in this way. About the accident, where all these citizens must be, it's too special to say. I just want to point to one other thing and get along and look at this problem completely. I want to tell all of you and the members of the government that, in accordance with the principles of humanity and solidarity, we are absolutely human and we are equally treating the tragedy of all citizens and we are protecting equal rights of all citizens. I suggest you accept my appeal and use this same law to help citizens, who have been living without their roof over their heads for six years and without the right to use their property. Probably, for technical reasons, this proposal, which I'm about to make, hasn't appeared in the Assembly Hall yet, and I suggest basically supplementing the name of this law. I propose that it be called: the Law on the Security of Assets for the Elimination of Earthquake in the Kolubar District and the reflection of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the territory of the municipality of Priboj. In this way, they would certainly allow equal treatment for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and each part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, we would certainly have called on other international humanitarian organisations, and certainly the governments of other countries, as well as those of the neighbouring countries, with whom we lived in our common homeland up to a few years ago, so that they could join this programme and help to bring about the consequences of both disasters. I mentioned earlier the situation of citizens on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, and the writings and evidence of the president of the Municipality of Priboj, Mr Milic Popovic, from 13 April 1993 to the government and from 5 June 1995 to Mr Andri Milosavljevic. When such a special law is passed, which will carry out a procedure for solidarity and humanity, I suggest that my proposal not be rejected from some prejudices, but taken in full into consideration. I'll just give you a few data, so it might be easier to dismiss some prejudice.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u881	Mr. Muric, I'm asking you to do it next time, because now you're late with the proposal. He came to the office at 10.45 p.m. and thus failed to meet the basic condition of the Rules of Procedure to be found in a proposal to supplement the agenda, so you can do it next time.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u882	Mr. President, probably for technical reasons, that's what happened. If we're already looking at the Rules of Procedure, the way these sessions are scheduled, photos and everything else, goes in one other direction, and I think that technical element should be discarded at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u883	Mr. Muric, I warned you because the agenda has already been adopted in full and there is no place to explain any part of the agenda, which cannot be on the agenda now.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u884	I'm saying that for technical reasons, that proposal didn't show up in the O.R., and that's why I called in this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u885	I explained it to you. Practically, you can do it all next time. There is a word from MP Dražimir Marusic, and, lastly, Dejan Kovacevic, the building minister, answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u886	Dear President, dear colleagues, truly the adoption of this law is a fine expression of the principle of one solidarity that we learned when we helped many others. Much is said here about both the principles of both the way and the response of the organisation of the government. In particular, it was said by Davidovic, Peručić, and I would have nothing special to add to that. I'd like to ask here a question that's been raised, and that's a matter of technical interpretation of this law, where it wouldn't be against it to be clear from this pay phone, both by the Parliament and by the government, defines. The Earthquake earthquake must have hit this area, where it was also an epicenter, in the most brutal way possible. However, the fact is that in addition to these municipalities, the municipality of Gornji Milanovac is 60 km from the border to this area and that 22 villages are just located on this Malena-Subborian beam, I would say from the village of Bogdanica, which is 65 km from Milanovac and which is right next to that epicenter and that people there expect this law without thinking about whether it is applied in the Colombian area, or whether people really need to exercise those rights in the area where they have experienced this disaster, or where this has been experienced and this disaster. I'll say that in these 22 villages we made the first estimates and sent it to the government. There are about 244 houses that are badly damaged, there are 14 state facilities. It's mostly schools and infirmarys. There are two churches. It is practically one nation living on the north and southwest side of Mladen and Suvobor Mountains and really expects this parliament and the government of the Republic of Serbia to have solidarity, according to the principle of providing funds and removing all of this in the same way. It couldn't be any uglier if one administrative municipal border, in the end we don't want, shared people in the exercise of rights, because on the one hand and on the other, they're direct neighbours. Welcoming the adoption of this law, I really expect especially from the Government, because this morning we also agreed on the Finance Committee, that the government is clearly defined on the amounts and the manner and categories of people at risk of hosting this right under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u887	There is a word from building minister Dejan Kovacevic, and another MP named Dragoljub Pantic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u888	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when the earthquake took place, took all possible measures through its ministries to come to the aid of an earthquake-related area. I must say, since the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a detailed insight into what happened through its organs, that the earthquake was devastating for the area. In particular, I have to say that the cause of the large number of objects being built many years ago, many dozens of years ago, was built without reinforced or overstretched concrete. You've heard that there are objects that were built at the beginning of this century. In this sense, the earthquake could not choose objects built in classical concrete or otherwise. I would like to underline that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the District and Ministry, has tried to make the first days as normal as possible and that people who have found themselves in wonder return to some normal state. This primarily refers to solving municipal problems, protecting health, and anything else that can be threatened after an earthquake. I think it's very important that this law, which should last for two or three years, be passed in order to address all the consequences that occurred after this devastating earthquake. I think it would be very naive to expect it to be resolved in a few months. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also made sure that with the projects we have at the moment, it immediately comes to the aid and that large amounts of material is being arranged. Please, for the first things to be solved, it takes over two and a half million bricks, two and a half million crumbs, it takes 20,000 cc's of gravel, 15 thousand cc's of sand and so on, now I wouldn't talk about it. These are huge amounts, which should be delivered to the area and should help these citizens build it. We have a family who can't even get a crep off the building, let alone build something because of the family's family and the villages. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia has also done well to take steps to create a programme that will try to resolve many issues in this area, from a spatial plan to urban solutions, especially because of infrastructure, which is also affected by this catastrophic earthquake. I think the earthquake did a lot of damage. Now some of the figures that are mentioned are transparent, because all the way to the end it hasn't been seen yet. I ask this assembly to pass this law, to help all citizens who have suffered great damage in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u889	He has the word National MP Dragoljub Pantic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my predecessors from the Colubary County have well informed you, or they've provided a lot of accurate information on how many earthquakes have been hit by the Colubary County. I will not repeat this information to you, but on behalf of the people of the Kolubara district I would like to thank the government and all state authorities, but also to all those who have sent any assistance at the first moment, which was really necessary. Whether she was at that point enough or not, surely in trouble every help is small, because the trouble was great. I'd remind the government that even though there were no human casualties, there were some kinds of vultures. This should be known, so that the government draws attention to the authorities that carry out the distribution work and the humanitarian aid that comes in. I, moving in the territory of the Colubary County, noticed that there was a lot of discontent, or people were affected by the fact that someone in all of this accident is looking to pull out a personal experience. So I would suggest to the government that the most rigorous measures be applied to those who are so carried out in this people's accident. On the other hand, there's another kind of vulture that, bringing help, the people are grateful for all the help and therefore thank them, but it raises so much dust about it being a miracle, collecting and stealing at that moment, in this difficult situation, and political points.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u891	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 184, no one against, five abstentions, voted 12, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On behalf of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? (Dr. Stevan Vrbaki from the city: I withdraw. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? (Dr. Stevan Vrbaki from the city: I withdraw. ) Article 3. The Legislative Committee has proposed that, in order to be precise, the position of Article 3(2) be resuscitated so as to become the position of Article 2(2). It's a bill of law. This proposal was agreed by a representative of the legislator at a session of the Legislative Committee, so I realize that this proposal has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. The Finance Committee has not accepted this proposal. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? (Dr. Stevan Vrbaki from the city: I withdraw. ) Does anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Colubary County in general. For 191, no one, with three abstentions, voted four, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Colubary area. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC INFORMATION A bill was handed to you, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 19 October 1998. You have been handed an amendment to the People's Parliament of Life of Cvetkovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Antal Biachi gave an opinion. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of the Minister of Information, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u892	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, freedom of information is one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the most important international legal norms and a significant activity of modern civilization. The right of every citizen to be free, objective and fully informed, his right to participate in the information process and process, is a democratic achievement that few in the world as our own can boast. Such a claim, however it may seem to some, is neither unserious, nor undosed, but best depicts our present. After all, it is difficult to find a country where there are more frequent and more severe excessive accusations at the expense of the government, along with daily mourning because everyone, but everyone in our country, is not ready to accept and support such a hack. The changes that have taken place over the past six years, since the adoption of the previous Public Information Act, have been to this extent dynamic and comprehensive that the application of the law in some segments has indicated the need to adapt it to emerging relations and trends that point to future relations in society and in the field of public information. This has also been confirmed through a comprehensive debate conducted across Serbia, which has significantly contributed to new legal solutions in public information being the expression of the general consensus. As a result, the bill highlights further democratisation in the field of public information, protection of personality rights, changes in ownership relations in line with the solutions in European countries' legislation. In the past period since 1991, some issues have been observed in the existing Public Information Act, and some areas are not legally regulated. This concerns in particular the question of the responsibility of the MPs in public votes in relation to certain fundamental constitutional principles, such as the inviolability of human dignity and the right to the private life of a man, the ban on public information monopolies, the financial compensation for damages, the liability of those who unlawfully restrict the work of public ballots or the responsibility of public votes and responsible persons in them, and the liability of the competent national law enforcement authorities is not specified. Given the fact that almost all the issues regulated by the current law had to be regulated differently and more precisely and made more clear to most of the new legal norms, it was necessary to pass a whole new law. The government of the Republic of Serbia is also monitoring its work in the field of public information abroad, especially in those European countries that have a long tradition in this field of work. These experiences, as well as the experiences of certain international organisations, were also used during the drafting of this law. Our country is in a period of transition and economic transformation, so legislative action, as well as this law, cannot long-term reflect all the opportunities and situations that will arise, but at this point we consider the solutions offered to be the best, with the obligation that this law will also be upgraded and perfected according to the experiences that we will experience during application, using foreign experiences that can be appropriate to our conditions. The proposed law, according to our conviction, regulates public information in a better and more appropriate way. We are sure that its application will improve the overall situation in this area. The bill is termologically balanced and updated in line with democratic and technical and technological developments in the field of public information. The proposal for a law on public information, which is here today before you, MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has been given for adoption under special circumstances. Pressed by ultimatums, blackmails, threats by certain Western countries, our country has an obligation to preserve its integrity, but also in such difficult conditions to improve and develop human rights and freedoms and as an important part of the Corps of these freedoms of public information. In the modern era of satellites, computers and high technology, information is a condio sine qua non democratic prosperity of every nation, while abuse of information or information used for psychologically-propagandous purposes can represent the most powerful weapon aimed at those who are unable to oppose their technical and material capabilities. Unfortunately, many freedom of information and the flow of information without borders have seen as an extraordinary opportunity to come very cheaply with a small investment to have a significant impact on the consciousness of the works of people and people, whose open threat to occupation, bombing and killing is as a democratic and humanistic idea, and those who, by any chance, would try to declare opposing them as the civilization's bottom and the greatest evil of modern humanity. Today, it is modern and desirable for those who kill all over the world to call peacemakers and Democrats, and those who try to stop them permanently or at least for a time in their supposed democratic campaigns, many accuse them of, as they say, stopping information, time, and even history. Also, sometimes with us lies, insults, arbitrary evaluations or misinformation are declared to be the only true, justifiable and real freedom. The principles of individual rights and freedom of citizens, nowhere in the world are they understood in their absolute sense. By exercising his rights and his freedom, no one can or must not restrict the rights and freedoms of others. In public information it is clearer and more visible than in any other sphere in public life. The principles of freedom and responsibility for spoken and written must not be incompatibilities, but must be complementary. Only then does freedom of public information gain the essential importance and right of achievement. The proposal for a law on public information is designed to find the right measure of freedom and accountability and we believe that we have succeeded. Such success would mean a boost for the further development of democratic relations in Serbia, while respecting the rights of the person, as well as the rights of those who provide information and those to whom this information relates. You have a very liberal bill on providing and spreading information, but hard on those who are jeopardizing the fundamental postulates in the field of public information. This also protects the highest value of a country, but also the right to privacy, everywhere in the world recognised as one of the basic rights and freedoms. In particular, the basic provisions of the proposed law provide new and more precise formulas for free information and its protection, freedom of public hearings, recognised facts and views which citizens have the interest to be informed and the obligations of state authorities to make available information from their jurisdiction under the same conditions. In addition to the solutions that were in the previous law on banning censorship, basic provisions provide a full definition of public information. These provisions also regulate and ban the monopoly as well as the obligation to respect the inviolability of human dignity and the right to a private life in public information. Therefore, public information is free, censorship is prohibited by this law, and some new legal institutes are introduced, such as public affairs and public authorities' obligations to make all information available to the public under the same conditions, as well as a much more precise and correct definition of the very concept of public hearings and means of public information than was the case before. In the second chapter of the law governing the establishment, registration and termination of public texts, the basic solutions are reserved under the old law. There is still a system of application, and the paper is that five evidences are specified with an application for registration, the registration and erasure procedure is arranged, with the setting of conditions when it appears. Also, in this chapter of the law, the conditions for cancellation of registration are regulated if incorrect data are given. The third chapter of the law regulates the publication of public votes, which is a newspaper in relation to the existing law and the special newspaper, and, starting from the character of radio frequencies as a natural limited resource, it is specified in which conditions cannot be passed or delayed to broadcast radio-television programmes of certain foreign content, which is a Article 27 that is exactly in line, and is in no way contrary to the legal norms laid down in the basic provisions of this law, as well as the fundamental principles of the international pact on civil and political rights, in which the need for free flow of information is stressed, regardless of the established state borders. The Republic of Serbia, and this law has also defined itself as a smooth and fast flow of any information, has been defined as the exchange of information with Europe and the world, in all areas of social life, by wanting to protect itself from the political-propagandic content programme broadcast by governments of individual countries, with a fundamental goal of achieving its strategic and tactical political interests in our country's territory. After all, our country accepts the broadcasting of programmes of such content, under the conditions of reciprocity and equality. If anyone already has an interest in broadcasting in Serbia's "Glas America" we are sure that the obituaries will accept that in the entire territory of the United States there is a "Glass of Serbia" or a similar show in English, so that citizens of that country can get objective feedback and learn more about events in Serbia, but also about our government's views on solving key political problems in the US, especially when it comes to the threat of human rights and freedom of racial, ethnic and minority groups. In addition, only one information in the United States in electronic media is only 2% of the participation of foreign programmes, and in Western European countries, the European Union's ratio is between 6% and 8%, and in our country today, this ratio is more than 30 percent. Therefore, by 15 to 20 times the participation of foreign programmes in our country is higher than in the US and five to six times greater participation than in Western European countries. Then you can well conclude whether we're for isolationism or we're wide open as it's always been. In the head of five laws, it's arranged to keep tone and video records and insights into the record. In particular, the right to exercise insight into the tone record and how that right is exercised has been regulated. In chapters six and seven, which regulate the statement of urgency, answers and corrections, and norms are precise and we would say, technically more legally than was the case in the previous law. In the following chapters, first of all concerning the outcome of the criminal proceedings and the right of the person to whom the information applies, we have achieved significant success in achieving international and legal standards, those rights, and above all the rights to privacy, so.... (incomprehensible) rules and what is recognised everywhere in the world, what is respected in all Western or democratic countries. It's something that even in this law, and it's something that must be sharpened in all our legal norms. In Chapter 11, a cash compensation has been arranged, as has been possible so far, that a damaged legal or natural person can make compensation through a competent court, if the means of public information is published by an untrue information which violates the reputation or interest of the damaged person, or the honor is offended, or the untrue allegations about his life, calling and ability of that person are transmitted. It is also defined when information is considered to be false or incomplete. I brought here the text of the International Pact on Political and Civil Rights, which was adopted in the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1966, which lists some exceptions to respect for absolute freedom of information, which concerns respect for the rights and respect for other persons, is Article 19, paragraph 3 and under a), and also for the protection of national security or public order, public health and morals. Only those who resort to such legal norms in a funny way and who, out of ignorance, say that someone is taking some kind of censorship or banning further information. In chapter 12, this is supervision, and here are the issues of supervision of law enforcement and much more concrete and precise than was done in previous normative acts. In the head of criminal provisions, in order to protect freedom of public information, the freedom of public opinion to present facts and views of everything citizens have in the interest of being informed, it is prescribed that freedom of public information and free movement of views and opinions should not be restricted, that public votes truly and in due course inform the public, that public votes respect the inviolability of human dignity and the right to the private life of a person, that public votes protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens and people, and it was also necessary to regulate infringements against those who violate the provisions of this law. Based on previous experiences in the application of the existing law, and using the experience of particularly developed Western European countries, we have come to the conclusion that without adequate criminal policy, we cannot achieve the objectives of which this law seeks. So we are again trying to find the right measure between freedom and accountability in public information. Penalties, first of all, should act preventively, and only in exceptional cases, repressive. We have estimated that it is sufficient to predict in criminal provisions only infringements and we have classified them into five groups according to their weight, i.e. the adverse consequences they can produce. As the most difficult form, we have envisioned the publication of information calling for the violent destruction of constitutional order, violation of territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, violation of the guaranteed rights and freedoms of man and citizen or the challenge of national, racial and religious intolerance and hatred. With the intended punishment, which must be adequate to the adverse consequences that this offence has caused, although at first sight it may seem high, the goal and purpose of punishment can only be achieved, so seriously and preventively we act not by means of information endangering the Constitution as the highest legal act and as only the superior of our country. Article 73 lays down penalties for the re-emission and transmission of radio and television programmes of foreign broadcasting organisations which are propaganda-political content and are broadcast in the Serbian language and language of national minorities, the founders of which are foreign governments and their organisations, and the broadcasting of such programmes is not determined by an inter-state contract. It's a serious offense. The solutions we propose are also based on our current experiences and practices of foreign countries. Radio frequencies are a naturally limited resource and their use must be in the interest of the citizens of this country. Foreign radio and television stations have the opportunity to make propaganda on the entire planet via satellite broadcasting and other technical capabilities of their countries, without having to use domestic and radio television stations. We believe that a threatened sentence will act preventively in order to enforce the law. It is also intended to be seen as a violation of the abuse of freedom of public information by publishing falseness that violates the right of person in the means of public information. We think this represents one of the greatest achievements of this law, something that represents the fundamental protection of human rights and freedoms, something that we can be proud of and that many in the countries of Western Europe are praised. According to Article 11 of the Law, public information must respect the inviolability of human dignity and the right to the private life of a man. Unable to publish or reproduce information, articles or data in which the honor and reputation of the person is offended, or to present or present false truths about his life, knowledge and abilities. The threatened sentence, in our confidence, is also adequate for possible adverse consequences that would result in the violation of the mentioned member of the public information law. A group of infringements are also foreseen to be provided primarily for the application of the public information law. In addition to the provision that it will be considered an offence which unlawfully restricts or coerced against the work of public texts, infringements will be considered to be considered to be contrary to the law, to start issuing or broadcasting a public note before entering the register, to notify the competent authority of changes in data, not to hear the tone and video, and to publish ads to the contrary to the provisions of this law. We also believe that the aim and purpose of the punishment will be achieved in this article. In Article 76, the simplest forms of the infringement have been identified, and if the printer prints the printed items without proof of their entry in the records, if the information is published without the indication of the public message from whom it has been taken over, and if reply or correction makes any comments. It is also very precise that the authority for the infringements, established deadlines for the oral search, the way in which the calls and decisions are delivered and the time for the decision to be taken in the infringement procedure are determined. There's also been an executive procedure. The decisions given in respect of the proceedings have been made in accordance with the existing infringement and enforcement procedure and have been appropriate to our experience. We are confident that these provisions will contribute to a more effective application of this law and will ensure that the law is fully applied. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of a serious and good proposal for a law on public information. We think he'll be able to solve some of the problems we faced in the previous period. We are solving this with the highest legal act, so by law, which the Assembly here can pass, and we believe that in the coming period we will have the security of fully free and objective information to the public, as is this law and how constitutional norms are declared. Those who, even before this law reached the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have already begun to express their disdain, only because they will at least have the right to do so and act in a hypocritical manner in order to make it possible for this law to be published, lie, misinformation to finally be punished, and speak of freedom of public information. The government of the Republic of Serbia is pleased that such a legislative proposal can be presented to MPs for adoption and I am sure and I expect that most of the MPs in the National Assembly will accept such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u893	Thank you. He has the word Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u894	I will talk about the proposal for a law on public information from the aspect of its importance for the protection of infringements of the rights of persons in the means of public information. The court statistics record a real flood of charges for attacks through the press and other media, as a rule and in the largest number of those who refer to themselves as independent, and who are ultimately unrecognizable and yet unremarkedly insecurely attacking the honour, reputation and dignity of citizens, by the rule of public figures in the field of politics and all other forms of public action, from enterprise to estracium. Only one of Belgrade's courts currently has nearly 300 cases of charges for insults and slanders, or for compensation of immaterial, moral damage to the writings of public information. These court proceedings due to the overload of courts with other cases, but mainly because of the complex and complicated, slow procedure, which is prescribed by the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and both laws are federal character and the Republic has virtually no ability to change them and thus affect the acceleration of these proceedings, lasts for a year, two, and often much longer. Many who, in this way, are defiled by the reputation, honor and dignity, learn of the length of the proceedings, give up seeking protection from the court, and without that, surely the number of these proceedings before the court would be much higher. Many who turn to the courts in the lawsuits state that they are not actually interested in the collection of damages and suggest that what they get on the basis of such judgments will be directed towards certain humanitarian needs and purposes, but actually want only one moral satisfaction for their inflicted insults and slanders. Lately, the number of these attacks on human dignity has been multiplied by arithmetical progress, because in many of the messages under the tags - sensational, exclusive, scandalous - in fact, they are untrue about the physical and legal persons in the desire to increase circulation, not thinking about the consequences that such untruths can have on the peaceful life of citizens, their families, their work and so forth. Therefore, it was also necessary to respond and legally prevent, more specifically sanction such behaviour in the means of public information. The draft law before us in Article 1 declares that public information is free and that freedom of public information is intact. But also in Article 4 of the Law, the public said they were obliged to inform the public of the truth and that the publication of falseness was in fact an abuse of freedom of public information. The abuse of freedom of public information by the publication of untruths that are injure the right of a person under this law constitutes an offence for which an appropriate fine is prescribed. At first glance, this fine may seem harsh, but it is not, because the state is obliged to protect the freedoms and rights of citizens and to respond with appropriate protection instruments in the event of an attack on these freedoms. One of these instruments is prescribed by this law and because of the importance of which, for a man and a citizen, there is a reputation, honor and dignity, in Article 77. The bill is prescribed a procedure in which proceedings for such violations will have to be terminated within a very short period of time, between 24 and 48 hours. Within that time limit, the person who has committed a breach in the means of public information, i.e. the means of public information, in which such information has been published, is obliged to prove the truthfulness of the information published. If he does not do so, he will be fined. The draft law authorises the infringement authority to carry out the procedure and obliges it to end it within 24 hours of the day of the submission of the call and if the defendant has been duly called in the manner prescribed in Article 77. The bill of law, and the search has not been approached, regardless of the reasons for the lack of search. A fine which must be paid within 24 hours shall be imposed for the offence committed. If a fine is not paid voluntarily, it shall be subject to forced payment by withdrawing funds from the accounts, and if that is not possible to settle the fine by seizing the assets sold in public auctions within seven days. This is how funds, of these fines, are paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is, therefore, neither a ban on the work of the media nor a compensation to the one to whom the damage has been done, but a state's reaction to the violation of the law. The person to whom the damage has been done may, in a special procedure, seek compensation for damages before a competent court, by applying the Law on a litigation procedure, which in this case will be applied urgently, whose height by the court will be determined in any particular case, depending on the type and extent of damage caused. By adopting such proposed legal solutions, we will finally stand in the way of one phenomenon, which in our public informing us has become detached, has taken hold, and is being penalized everywhere in the developed world. This law, therefore, will not prevent the freedom of the press and other media, it will only apply in this part to those who slander, who insult, and who hurt others, and only those who need to worry and fear this law. On the other hand, this law, we expect, will provide our citizens with a peaceful life and security that in the event that their privacy is attacked, the state will react, and this is rightly expected and required by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u895	Thank you. Does an international MP who has taken his opinion, Antal Biachi, want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u896	Mr. President, the esteemed Members of the People, the honourable ministers, as you have heard, I have set out a word concerning the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Let me give you some explanation. For certain sentences in some members of an evil man, these sentences could mean that they are cynicism and demagogy. But as soon as those sentences are translated into law, in the bill, which, if adopted, should function in one of the most significant areas of society, then the law is really important. In addition to a series of features that this law has, I generally object to certain members, at least not in this procedure, and we have heard these traits, there will be other MPs, who will talk about them, I would like to point out some of the shortcomings of this law, such inadequacies, which we could repair in case the law went into its regular procedure. First, a formal act -- at least I didn't, with my intellectual abilities, I couldn't study that text in time, I got it last night. So this time is short so that we can give concretely reasoned amendments to improve the text. What's wrong with the law? In my opinion, first of all, the law does not provide for the protection of journalists. I don't think, and this sentence of mine does not apply to physical protection, but to protection related to it - if a journalist does his job fairly, if he conveys information, if that information is published, by this law, and by the spirit of the law, he is responsible for it - who, when, and in what cases, is the information. So, the law didn't process one good piece of information about public information, and these are the subjects that provide information. It is that the journalist and editor-in-chief are not responsible if they pass on certain information from state authorities, they are not even responsible when they transmit information, i.e. statements of immunity persons, but are responsible when they transfer information, whatever they are, political leaders, various entities that participate, which are headed by various companies, various bodies, of particular social importance, and are not state bodies. So my point is that the law does not foresee responsibility for a spoken public word. However, it means that wherever I want, wherever I want, if I have immunity, to say whatever I want, no one will take me on account of it, and the journalist who only records it, who only transfers it, by the provisions of this law, he is responsible. Article 3 Chapters IV and X, especially this about advertising, please read, if you know that funds of public information, i.e. local means of public information, are less, living than some small donations, i.e. small inflows from advertising, and that, let's say, cannot be done by those who are engaged in free professions. Those who are here, in this law, may not, but there are free professions that are quite harmless in this regard. Of course, so is Article 29 and Article 31 and the rest, and for these reasons I believe that this law could have been in the ordinary procedure completed, so that we could get a real law on public information, which could serve as an example, not only in the Balkans, but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u897	Thank you. He has the word Gorica Gajevic, the MP and head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u898	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the proposal for an information law, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is well known that our commitment to full freedom of information and to the full responsibility of all entities in this process. Media freedom in Serbia is guaranteed by the Constitution and laws. The opportunities for free information and how far these freedoms go are best confirmed by the data on the number of media. In our country, more than two and a half thousand daily and weekly lists, 86 radio stations and 18 television stations were registered. The actual expansion of the number of media has been recorded precisely in recent years, and these expansions could not be without full freedom in their establishment and work. These figures about the number of media far exceed the number of media in developed countries, similar to our size and population, which claim to be democratic and the world recognizes them as such. These figures say that our media space meets the number of media, which apparently exceeds the real needs of this space. They confirm that in every part of our Republic, citizens have a great choice in information. Everything can be published, written and broadcast in Serbia. The limit to that freedom should be lies, rights and freedoms of others, but often it did not hinder the work of the media. Unfortunately, this freedom often went to extremes because participants’ responsibilities in the information process were not precisely determined. It is known how and how much media influences the awareness and form of public opinion and how the media industry is becoming less and less informed about the events, and is increasingly seeking to produce events according to the needs of those who are ordering them. It is also known that media influence, acquired by such action, can benefit negatively. The proposal for a full information law and rightly affirms media freedom, prevents monopoly, emphasises and precises the responsibility of all in the news production process, in one developed and growing industry in Serbia, what media is like. It's the basic newspaper of this law. It removes weaknesses in the current regulation, which have been expressed in globular, inaccurate formulations and sanctioning abuses, which so far have been left without responsibility. And these are primarily unbiased information, suspicious funding, work for foreign intelligence services, lies directed against personalities and the like. This law, in one word, protects media freedom from abuse of freedom. The provisions of this law prevent anyone from broadcasting, writing what they consider to be accurate and true, but at the same time establish responsibility, professional and ethical standards and provide protection against lies and misinformation. With such legal solutions, we will no longer be in a situation like a month ago that the media, trying to provoke fear, panic and defetism, literally bomb us with threats, attacks. The sanctions given to the media, which did so, emitting alarming threats to our people and the state, who have embarked on the technology of the creation of war psychosis, the spread of fear and defetism, are the least and the smallest punishment that has hit them. The real punishment is that for a long time they will bear the seal that they have worked against the interests of the land and their people, they will bear a shameful mark, which is not erased in the people. Only contempt is worthy of the media, which are defended by those of their readers, who were preparing to bomb the people for whom they write and their country, and in their country they well know the dictionary of forbidden words, darkened parts of the text and so on. It should not be forgotten that these media are in the minority, as should be forgotten that media like Radio Television are Serbia, "Politics", "The Battle", "Political Express", TANJUG etc. Highly professional, ethically objectively and accurately informed, while strengthening patriotic consciousness and spreading the truth. The proposed law makes all media equal in terms of establishment and work. All have open access to readers, viewers, or listeners. Their survival and development is in their hands and depends on the quality, objectivity, accuracy and timing of their information. This law strongly affirms freedom in information and clearly places responsibility. To those who have not abused freedom so far, the penalties provided for irresponsible conduct will not constitute any obstacle to further work. Those who have seen the information as more than just publishing newspapers, making radio and TV shows and thus trying to create what is not their job, contrary to the interests of profession, citizens and states, will not be able to continue with such activities. The freedom of the media can and will be restricted only by the freedom and rights of those whose work and operation the media informs, freedoms and rights of those to whom the information is intended. Then when they threaten the freedom of others, the interests of the state and the people, then their actions will be sanctioned according to the clearly prescribed procedure. Dear President, honourable MPs, the proposal for a law on information and all the solutions in it are in line with the time in which we live, with the needs of modern, objective, accurate and impartial information and fully consistent with the legal projects in this area of modern democratic states in Europe and the world. What is valid in any democratic state as a positive practice for the field of information will apply with this law and in Serbia. All those who seek to imitate their work with the solutions and practices that apply in this area in the world, who respect their profession, will welcome this law, because it is in the interest of strengthening the true freedom of the media and the need for citizens to be accurate, impartially and objectively informed of everything that is happening in our country and the world. It is the essence of information and the basis of respect and dignity of the journalistic profession. This law fully affirms it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u899	Thank you. There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u900	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days in the public of Serbia, there has been a sharp controversy about individual solutions, which envisions the law. This law has a total of 14 chapters, but the essence of this controversy is located only in two members. Of the 80 members, only two members caused a sharp controversy. First of all, Article 27, which says: The public vote cannot, in whole or in part, transmit or delay a radio television programme of politically propaganda content in the Serbian language and languages of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia of foreign broadcasting organisations, the founders of which are foreign governments or their organisations, except for programmes broadcast or delayed on the basis of reciprocity established between national contracts. And Article 73, which logically continues on Article 27, which says that whoever violates the provisions of Article 27, will be punished for the offence by the founder, the issuer with a fine of 250 to 500,000 new dinars, the editor responsible and responsible person of the issuer with a fine of 50 to 150,000 new dinars. That is the essence of the whole dispute over this public information law. No one has ever challenged any other member from any of these 14 chapters. All of what was conducted in public ballots, according to some so-called independent media, television stations, radio stations, organized emissions were directed primarily to these provisions of this law. The reasons are very simple. The government of the Republic of Serbia, when it proposed these provisions in the new information law, was primarily managed by security reasons per state of Serbia, i.e. SR Yugoslavia. It is clear that the SR Yugoslavia is now in a major conflict, primarily with Shiptar terrorists and those who support this terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. We've had some serious threats over the past few weeks with bombings, war threats. The NATO Pact has seriously prepared to intervene in the SR Yugoslavia, even an activation order has been issued. For them, however, she was not unknown to our military potential, our people, our weapons, our powers, and our possible answer. These are things they know very well. What you never know in advance is the willingness of the people and the population to defend themselves. And that willingness can change, it can affect her. It can be increased, it can be accelerated, it can be raised, it can be influenced in the opposite direction. Otherwise, it can only be influenced by mass media. That is why these mass media are very important in the fight against the SR of Yugoslavia or the Serbian people. It seeks to reduce the readiness of the Serb people to defend themselves. That's what spies used to do when the media didn't exist. There's someone's spy, he's got good information, and he's sowing panic amongst those who need to defend themselves. Today it's done in television, radio, press, and other ways. Where's the proof here? Evidence of this claim, that those most threatened the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, above all, the United States, the United Kingdom and some other Western countries via their representatives in the NATO Pact, the nominal head of the NATO Pact, Javier Solana and the main commanding pact for Europe by General Westly Clark, when they came to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, did the work for which they came, organised a meeting with the main and responsible editors of the media who fell under the attack of the Regulation that was immediately prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Those who were supposed to lead and command the bombing of the Republic of Serbia, by breaking up our military targets, by destroying our cities, our villages, they held a meeting with representatives of the so-called independent media. What military representatives have to talk to those who represent the so-called. Independent journalism? Unless they're in their service. What does a general have to talk to the editor-in-chief of some insignificant newspaper, which does not even have a more significant circulation here in Serbia? Is there really one logical question to ask? What's his interest in talking to him? Unless he's his soldier, unless he's in his service. That's a logical answer. The evidence that these media are serving those who were supposed to bomb Serbia is that they met when they were hit by the Regulation, which prescribed media behaviour in Serbia as we were threatened by military danger. The military threat is currently being removed. But it is never known when Americans will again decide to step up pressure on the SR Yugoslavia, when they will decide that the agreement reached no longer applies, as they will interpret the agreement. But the moment they decide on these new pressures, on new bomb threats, they'll need loyal media again, they'll need those from the so-called. well-informed sources, sowing fear, defetism, spreading panic and thus affecting the readiness of Serbian citizens to defend their own state. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group fully supports this information law, and those who believe their conscience is clean and who have so far acted in line with state interests, especially in the emerging situation, will have no particular reason to fear coming under the influence of the law. That is why I am convinced that after the adoption of this law, the strength of our defense will be even greater and that SR Yugoslavia, besides having those who are willing to serve our enemies, will be even safer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u901	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u902	Dear People's MPs, the Yugoslav Left supports the adoption of the proposed information law. The existence of a law with clear legal provisions of the rights and responsibilities of journalists and media, the protection of the dignity of citizens, institutions and states, is an important feature of modern democratic and civilised society. Realising legality is a civilizational and democratic achievement, not the absence of freedom. The law protects the work and those who do, protects the endangered, not those who threaten, protects the stolen, not those who steal, protects those who love their country, not those who betray it. The proposed information law protects journalists and a journalistic profession from abuse, chicanisation and pressure, prevents the threat of objective and professional journalistic work. The proposal for this law contains the kind of valid protection of a responsible journalist's call - no journalist, no medium, no one who cares about the journalistic profession, any objective and engaged writing, to his country, has reason to fear that this law will compromise his journalistic engagement. This law is on the side of every journalist and every media with the interests of journalistic profession, the interests of this country, the dignity of the people and the need for humanity and prosperity. By passing this law, we want the media to be on the side of a man, inform him objectively, not to lie to him, to spread his sights, not to fear and panic, to encourage hope and love, not to poison and hate. We want the media to encourage a free, creative and critical spirit, not obedience and obedience to foreign violence. Such laws exist in all civilized countries of the world and it is therefore difficult to understand and resist the information law. It is not about disagreement with some of the provisions of the proposed law in advance. It's a disagreement with the adoption of any information law. The reasons against law-making, what we have heard here today, are the needs of political marketing and it is the only way to observe them. It is present, to say and a small demagogue under which a good law is only if it consists of one member who, according to them, should read this: "Medias, and above all, independent ones, are an uncircumcised institution which is untouchable and cannot be threatened by earthquakes, or floods, and especially by states." In this provision, to the soul, neither Vanden Brooke nor Solana are mentioned. History knows only one political option that was against the existence of the law. It was an anarchism. Today, there is another option in these areas that is bothering the existence of a precise information law. That option is not anarchistic, but it is a valid, sublime one. These are the so-called independent media and their minor political helpers, who find it hard to understand that playing against the law is the way to political loss. The reason for the so-called resistance. The independent media in the law is very simple. Their independence is paid by the White World Centers for driving democracy and spreading human rights. If the effect so-called independent media in the spread of human rights and democracy is not enough, then there are threats to rockets and bombs with slogans - let us prophesy the insubordination, so that those who survive live freely. It is the meaning of such independence, which is based on vasality. Opposing treason is not a political issue or not just a political issue, nor is it a moral issue, because a conviction, like those -- shame on you -- does not help. This is a legal question, because there is no policy, no morals, no consciousness, no conscience in the betrayal of the country. The latest confirmation of such an important role is a recent meeting, as has already been said, by NATO Secretary General Solana and US General Clark with the editors-in-chief, so-called. independent media during our country's official visit. Imagine meeting so-called. independent journalists, those who write that our military and police are harsh, cruel, criminal every time they defend their country. Their encounter with NATO pact leaders, the same forces that threaten to bomb us, which touch the points of the freest and most independent journalists in the world and those who keep their fingers on the Tomahawk trigger pointed at this country. The answer is clear. The most independent in the world and the wider, independent of this government and this people, but not of Solana, and therefore regularly go to his arrival. They're asking for Mr. Solana's money, but they're asking for protection from their own people. This time it looks like they've been more salty than famous. For example, the latest example of the German ambassador's interest in preserving independence during yesterday's visit to the Serbian government. As far as I know, for the last five years, the German ambassador in Belgrade has not expressed his desire to visit either the government or its president and to be interested in business and cultural co-operation, nor was he concerned about whether we had food or medicine at the time of sanctions, or the consequences of earthquakes, or the crimes of Albanian terrorists, but he was worried for the first time that he had requested admission to the Serbian government to express his fears that this proposed law would not endanger his protégéses, and this law in his country is even more rigorous and for decades was in force, so the Germans do not worry about the freedom of their media. Let me also say that our ambassador to Bono is expressing an unprecedented passivity on this matter. This law protects media and journalistic profession, but also protects citizens, institutions, society and stability of the state against untrueness, irresponsibility, endangerment of dignity and the betrayal of the country. It's about legal protection from every devastating psychological fact from spreading defetism, lies, from making up events to spread panic and people as crazy as possible. We want a time of fear of media untruths, shame, a time of media shame, in which this people was mentally destroyed, a time of humiliation of the journalistic profession, to have this sad time be behind us as soon as possible. This law must protect the journalistic profession from moral and professional failure, from those who are borderlessly slandering and endangering the dignity of citizens, from those who openly co-operate with foreign centres of power contributing to the destabilising of the country, from those who are paid to intimidate the people, so that we are as nervously distracted and incompetent as possible. When so-called independent media starts receiving money from abroad to make profits for their bosses within the framework of legal provisions, they will be able to sleep peacefully. As long as you and all that money come from the world's power centers for the destruction of this country, the proposed law must be consistently implemented. Let them issue a newspaper, but they can't betray the country. The right of journalists to write freely and the media not to be threatened by any force cannot be an alibi to publicly embarrass any citizen, even if he is a shepherd or prime minister, and at least to endanger the independence of the state and the dignity of the people. Such provisions of the protection of man, institution and state, the protection of journalists and the media also contains a proposal for this law, just as well as how the laws on information in Western countries predict it, so if these independents are so in love with Western democracy and their laws, let them feel the satisfaction of applying such a law on their hearth. Nothing makes more sense than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u903	Thank you. We'll continue the session at 2.30 p.m. this afternoon. (P a u s a) Dear People's MPs, please take your seats to continue our work. There is the word of the People's Messenger Branislav Pomoriski, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Ratimir Svirčević. And the heads of the parliamentary groups, when will it be their turn? When they answer. Have you heard from Mr. Kasa? Okay, here's Ratimir Svircevic now, so I'll come back to the heads of the parliamentary groups later.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u905	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the previous meeting of the Assembly, this high house of ours, was on the agenda of the University Law. At that time, a large number of debaters expressed their assessment that it was the lowest stage that could reach this country in the abolition of patriotism. So, abolishing university autonomy. I took the floor at that session and then I said it was just one of the steps that this government is taking to reach the maximum centralisation of the government in this country and to achieve the maximum abolition of civil liberties in this country. Unfortunately, well, I was right. But this next step, I thought it would be less unrepresentable than what happened to us, and what happened to us? We are at least humiliated as people's messengers, as people who express the people's will in this high house. And why is that? We've received material in connection with the information law about ten hours before this Parliament's meeting. That is, to repeat, and some speakers have already said that before, sixty pages of highly professional reading, which I tried to study last night, and I realized something about it. But what I realized most was that the government's goal was not that the MPs understood what it was, but that we became here on some level, and that is now the popular word, the verifiers. We actually verify the decisions made by the executive authority. It is one of the ways that the long-standing executive authority has stood over the legislative authority in this country and this is no longer denied on the basis of this fact. But that's a minor problem, too. This law is given, I'm talking about the information law, no public debate. And what does that mean? This means that his proposer doesn't care what the people think about the law. As representatives of the national will, i.e. We MPs didn't have the opportunity and the time period enough to get to know him and see what could possibly be his shortcomings, etc., and even the wider layers couldn't do it, our people couldn't see it, couldn't participate in a public debate on such an important problem. However, it is now less important again. I think with this law and this upside-down procedure about his emergency implementation has been rushed by the shameful regulation we had before this law. This regulation has harshly trampled in the constitutional rights of our citizens, and has harshly trampled in the rights guaranteed by the Charter of the United Nations. This is what the legislators of the regulation know very well, and this law should cover that regulation and in some ways we should pass the silences through that regulation. It does not say anywhere in the law whether the law abolishes the regulation, and the rule of law by the executive authority is considered an exception, not a rule. What quality are we in now, and what can we do at this time? We don't have a single regulated information law at federal level. I will, in short, but in a folk dictionary, comment on what this law means and so that our citizens know what the implications of this law are, in simple words. First, it means that, for example, the transfer of the judicial process between Monica Levinski and Bill Clinton cannot transmit our television, because the broadcast will be the founder of another state. Secondly, for example, some emissions from the ecological movement cannot be transmitted because the minister of information can interpret that this is about the ideology of the Green Party, for example, from another country. According to that logic, it can easily happen that we can't even get an exchange of sports events. It's a brief information law. Now, where are we in all this? We have two federal units in this country, and we will obviously now, since this law regulates relations in one federal unit, we seem to be sitting on a train, the Belgrade-Bar railway, so we will go to Montenegro to read the press, or else it will be transferred here. I propose, and for the sake of honor, this law would have to be delayed, put into public debate, to agree on it and then to adopt a harmonised law on public information of the Republic of Serbia, which would be in agreement with federal law in the area, where federal units would once again fall under the same law. And that's less important, Mr. Minister. I think that these laws and procedures are being passed because the public wants to be distracted from the key issue of this society's state of affairs. Now that we are threatened with peace, and our Mr. President of the United States is on the verge of signing peace, there is now a great danger of the eyes of the people pointing to the right things, and that right thing is the transfer of property that our grandfathers and fathers have been creating for a few families from the political establishment. To avoid public attention, such laws are passed that draw attention to the public. I'll just remind you what money is about. We had a loan for Serbia's rebirth, we had a fund to encourage the development of underdeveloped areas. Sixty billion dollars in the period this coalition is ruling. We had parastate banking. Three hundred and twelve million dollars, Dafina $1.054 million...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u906	Mr. Pomorieski, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u907	The grey show was only in 1993 six billion...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u908	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u909	Here, I'll be back, Mr. President, thank you for your warning. I'm showing this in dollars, so there's no confusion, because from the moment she came to power, she's taken off 70 zeros on our bills, so let's say 1991 and 1998...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u910	Mr. Pomorieski, please, when it's on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u911	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I suggest that this assembly put the regulation out of force, to delay the adoption of this law, to put it on public debate, that the people say nicely what they think about it, and that one day think about all these topics, and others that are not mentioned here, because one day someone needs this speaker to stop and answer all the questions asked to this people.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u912	Thank you. There's a word from MP Kasa Joseph, head of the parliamentary group. Mr. Mikovic is next.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u913	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that at that age, you've listened to fairy tales a long time ago, so I must remind you of the fairy tales of Snow White and Seven Dwarves. You know, there's this evil stepmother who looks at himself in the mirror and asks if she's the most beautiful woman on the globe. I think we're in the same situation right now. Well, of course, when it's not the most beautiful, it breaks the mirror, so if you think your truth isn't the only one and the real one then you'll break the mirror and you'll bring the law with which only one truth can exist in Serbia, and that's your truth. A comment from the O.R.... At least I'm so smart to see this country going to ruin, and Mr. Seselj, you're a foreword and you're dragging this country into the hardest darkness with this law, because it's your invention and I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u914	Thank you. He has the word Milan Mikovic, head of the SPO parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u915	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, members of the presidency, and ladies and gentlemen of the government, the top representatives of Serbia and the federal state signed an agreement concerning the fate of Kosovo, and thus the whole of our country and all Serbs. An agreement was signed with the United States, the European Union and the NATO Pact. The Serbian Renewal Movement emphasises that we will defend our Kosovo and will make it very firm as the basis of Serbia and Serbs, if we disprove those political forces in Serbia that are against our versatile co-operation with America and Europe. The signed agreement imposes on us the obligation of a radical turn of home affairs, the commitment of a determined and wise state strategy to join democratic reforms and the political and economic system, to make Serbia within a Balkan America, to be a democratic and rich state, to be a militaryly strong state and, as quickly as possible, become a member of the European Union. If we go this way, we will defend and determine Kosovo in a strong and rich country. If, however, we continue to base our internal policy on anti-American and anti-European moves, to incentivise Serbia's isolation from the powerful world, whose observers and various other representatives have been invited to help us in the peaceful and democratic reconstruction of Kosovo, then we will not defend Kosovo, and Serbia will be devastated to the depths of Somalia or Zaire. The Serbian Renewal Movement has dramatically warned that we did not sign an agreement on Kosovo with the "Zemunski novine", but with the strongest forces of this world and time and that without the support of these forces there can be no talk of our involvement in the international community, there can be no talk of foreign investment in our economy, foreign loans or forgiveness of the part of foreign debt. And there can be no talk of diplomatic and media support for our fight against Albanian terrorism and separatism. Unfortunately, some political forces in Serbia do not understand all of this, or, which would be particularly tragic, these forces understand everything well, and that is why they are moving towards an offensive against the future of Serbia and all of us. At the moment of signing an agreement with America, Europe and NATO, the Serbian government set out to ban certain newspapers, radio stations and foreign programmes in Serbian. It has been announced that even in some newsrooms, illegal police and similar formations of the Serbian Radical Party have been involved. A new media noise against Serbia was immediately launched around the world. Our country was placed on a pillar of shame because of dictatorship and terror. That is exactly where such a media campaign was immediately used by Albanian terrorists in Kosovo by going into mass action against our police officers, soldiers and peoples. While NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana and NATO Pact Commander General Clark were in Belgrade, Albanian terrorists made their bloody beer in Kosovo. Both Solana and Clark protested in Belgrade over an indication of a ban on the media, and the crimes of Albanian Nazis have been completely forgotten. Those unnecessary regulations and bans, the Serbian government has actually only produced a smoke screen and shelter for Albanian terrorists. It's the only effect. Just because we signed an agreement with the great world, the government went to a new, unnecessary and harmful misunderstanding with the world at the same time. What does only harm to the country and to the people must not be a government policy, nor should it be declared patriotism. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there are no major newspapers in the world, no TV networks, no news associations in the world, not to mark Serbia as a black hole in Europe, not to repeat to the unconscious and evidence of the indictment. And here's their evidence. They quote statements by one Serbian Deputy Prime Minister that only those newspapers will be published in Serbia and only those radios and TV stations he likes. That Serbs will liquidate foreign diplomats, journalists and citizens from hostile Western countries, who get their hands on them, and that so will many Serbian citizens who are allegedly foreign spies and mercenaries. Declarations are also quoted as saying that members of the OSCE observation mission are enemies and that they will also be treated wherever the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister is host and boss. His statements are also quoted as saying that his men will also tear down the Dayton Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since yesterday, his statements have also been quoted as saying that Serbia will become more fluent in Žirinovski and Zjuganov. The propaganda machine of the whole world draws a sign of equality between Serbia and one or two vice-presidents of the Serbian government. This sign of equality is, of course, unfair and untrue, but the fact that the Serbian government supports many, according to our country and people, of this man's harmful actions. He is the creator of a shameful law, which turned Serbian universities into public enterprises in his government, such as he and the creator of the Media Regulation. He wants to turn Serbia into a camp of misery, fear and terror, which can also cause harsh conflicts between us, but in all of this, it is mutually supported by forces, which are as if they want the same kind of Serbia, from forces that hinder the interests of the people and the country, from forces that prefer small and poor Serbia, which will continue to rule, but a comprehensive, rich and strong Serbia, in which they will not rule. That's why these forces support one, according to our nation and state, a dangerous man and use him as their charger and ensignor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, from Knin yesterday to Kosovo today, primitive pseudo-psoriatic and violent patriotism worked only in favour of Serbian damage, shame and national defeat. When we opted for a referendum in this assembly, this anti-patriotism imposed a ton of falsifying the essence of the referendum itself, which greatly weakened our fight for Kosovo. The Serbian Renewal Movement, to remind me, has repeatedly repeated that the referendum -- no, it means only -- not foreign rulings on where Kosovo is and whose Kosovo is, and that in everything else, the referendum must mean - yes. Yes - the OSCE mission, yes - to foreign observers, witnesses, mediators, humanitarian and other organisations, media, diplomatic missions. The Serbian Renewal Movement stressed that all truths, all facts, rights, history and God on Serbia's side, and that it is in our interest for the world to know these truths. The Serbian Renewal Movement has also requested that we declare an emergency or war situation in areas where the Kosovo terrorist army has emerged and that we hit terrorists fiercely and lightningly, using all the power of state defence and to carry out the operation professionally, with the presence of foreign observers, including observers of the NATO Pact. Blindness and stupidity wouldn't let that happen. In this assembly, applause was echoed with nonsense, that foreigners could come to Serbia, only as tourists, or as lovers of our kitchen, and that all other foreigners were Serbian enemies. And here we are. Only the other day did we accept what the Serbian Renewal Movement was looking for. Without a shred of shame, those noisers and blinds from a few months ago now loudly support the agreement, claiming they themselves participated in its assembly, as during negotiations with Holbrooke they were consulted in everything. They support the agreement, and they're doing everything against the agreement. Instead of harmonising our fundamental laws with the laws of the European Union, we mark an agreement with the European Union as an emergency, almost conspiracy, anti-European information law. The law was announced by Vice-President Seselj, he announced that the law would be passed by emergency procedure, and as it was proposed, on a shortcut and on an intimately sound mind. In democratic countries, the information law certainly falls under those laws that need to be conducted both public and professional debates. In Serbia, unfortunately, MPs didn't know what the information law said until the beginning of parliament's session. What does that mean? This means that the power of fact is replaced by the right power. Simply, the government's majority decided to vote and outvote the facts of both state and national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u916	Time, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u917	The saddest and most tragic part is that this law has been made up by the Ministry of Information, which today should be planted on the defendant's bench of our Parliament. The war against Albanian terrorists in Kosovo has not lost either our army, nor our police, a vast majority of these newly-Kosovo heroes have neither apartment nor decent salaries, but they have stopped at Serbia's bumper with hearts and breasts, and many have fallen in Kosovo. Them hats down there, all due respect and gratitude. Serbia lost another war, lost the media war. The information ministry has managed to make it impossible for Albanian lies and tricks on the victory in the world of all-Serbian truth about Kosovo. The defeat must have been smaller, if we had not had a minister of information at all, because everything he did, he was doing upside down, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, in style and insolent anti-Serb sentiments in the world. For such defeats and damages to the state and the people, resignations are immediately filed in serious countries and further sanctions are followed.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u918	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u919	Here, however, these ignorants and pests are rewarded. Defeat by the propaganda lies of Albanian terrorists, they decided to silence information in Serbia. They also want to defeat someone, not by knowledge, because they don't have it, but by naked force, which they only have. Tomorrow, all newspapers and all media in Serbia will have to announce that pensions are decent and regular, that salaries are solid and regular, that there are no unemployed and homeless, that refugees feel too happy, that there are no terrorists in Kosovo, and that there are no Serb refugees from there.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u920	Mr. Mikovic, you've been over two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u921	Whoever writes or reports otherwise will suffer severe punishments. Whatever MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement say today, the government will not want to hear, but will vote. So do it without our presence in the O.R. Because of the history of Serbian Renewal Movement MPs will not even attend the act of new destruction and humiliation of Serbia. (Serb Movement workers leave the hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u922	He has the word Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u923	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have always known that the Serbian Movement is a party of deserters. We knew it in 1991, we know it today. You saw, the Serbian Renewal Movement in April of the month could not support a referendum against foreign interference in our internal affairs. However, as threats to our country accumulated, threats to bombing, threats to military intervention by the NATO Pact, the Serbian Renewal Movement was replacing the thesis. Many times you could hear from the mouth of the Serbian Renewal Movement leaders that against mujahedin, against Islamists, against these, against those, against the Shipar, of course, but can't say anything against those who are the main culprits of everything that happens in Kosovo and Metohija. We know that some Islamic countries were involved in this Balkan crisis a few years ago, but we also know that with regard to Kosovo and Metohija and Albanian terrorism, their influence is not particularly significant. It is significant to some extent, negligible compared to what Americans, Germans, NATO pacts in general, and even so negligible that we have never felt the danger in the right sense of words in preserving Serbia's territorial integrity, on the other hand, but by NATO's pact we are both. I was surprised, I was surprised, in fact, for a long time - that Vuk Draskovic could allow himself to write speeches to his speakers in the Assembly every time. So Micovic comes out, we see right away that he doesn't agree with what he reads, shames him, doesn't look us in the eye, but looks at that paper, gets tangled up, raises his tone, like something hit him, and then I remember that Vuk Draskovic is actually professionally deformed. He spent his whole life writing to others speeches, writing Mickey Cave and similar, even taking notes, of course. Why is this party reacting like this today? And on Chanka will come the order, slowly. Why he's reacting like this - something's gotten out of their hands. What they expected - they expected the pressures of the NATO pact on our country to bear fruit. They thought left-wing parties would get scared, let go, radicals would come out of the government, and, well, the SPO is coming to the government. And the poor don't know that in Serbia, literally anything is possible, but it's never possible for anyone to make any serious coalition with the SPO anymore. Poor and angry that Serbia did not give in, that Milosevic did not allow NATO troops in our territory, which did not allow Kosovo and Metohija to get out of Serbia's legal system, the culprit is now seen in radicals. Now the radicals are guilty of taking the deal. The agreement, which does not mean sacrificing an important principle and does not mean sacrificing Serbia's territorial integrity and state sovereignty. Now the radicals are in the way. Even Draskovic himself requested that all requirements of the Western forces, NATO and the Contact Group be accepted four or five days before the agreement. Do you know what they used to mean at the beginning? NATO troops, to mislead order, to seduce peace, to get Kosovo out of Serbia's legal system, to have independent legal status and who knows what else. And Draskovic, of course, was ready to accept. Well, if it were wise to accept it as Draskovic advocated, then what would Milosevic hold such exhausting meetings, some of which lasted 11 hours? What does it mean to hold meetings and everything can be accepted immediately? Now, that's what they wanted to accept. They are now leaving the scene of a parliamentary debate. Someone from some party, who mistakenly entered the National Assembly, what is called the "Vojvodina Coalition", by mistake, socialist posters made a mistake in the campaign and by mistake the people voted for them. That's how it was. Yes, the socialists printed the poster "Vojvodina I love" and the people thought it was the same [[Laughter in O.R.]] , glued to the Duke. [[Applause]] So do you think a normal man could have voted for Nenad Chanka? What did Nenad Canak change the name of his party? [[Laughter in O.R.]] He knew that for the League of Social Democrats, no one would vote alive and then change the name of the party, disguised as a folk coalition with Veselinov and some others even to the elections. This time, for the next election, he must prepare a new fraud and a new party name. Otherwise, when people now realize that behind the Vojvodina coalition, there is a fraud, that there are now two Vojvodina coalitions, that even Cankova is not registered, people will not want to vote. Now that I've answered the word in the replica, I'm going to use my right to tell you about the information law I have. We basically prepared this information law in May of the month. There have been some adjustments among coalition partners, and events in Kosovo and Metohija and government engagement over these events have simply prevented us from showing up with the initiative earlier. However, the law is passed at the right time. What are we doing with this law? We affirm the freedom of the press and other means of public information. The press is free and there are no restrictions. She's free and she's been doing difusion, there's no limit, except from the point of view of using a frequency that we're not in charge of, but federal government. But what are we protecting by this law? We protect the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, above all, because individual human freedoms and rights are above collective. Everywhere in a civilized world, human dignity, personal right, personal freedom, individual freedom, and then collective rights are protected. Here, in our system, individual rights, personal freedoms were threatened by the so-called independent press or the yellow press, which is more appropriate. And that we've driven the rabbit, driven the wolf out, that's what you can see from this abandonment of the SPO MPs, and you can see from the behavior of foreign inspirers, the financialists of this yellow, traitorous press. Javier Solana, who decided to bomb Serbia, on killing Serbian children, Serbian women, Serbian civilians, on the destruction of Serbia, came here to help freedom of the press. What will his freedom of press in Serbia, if he intends to destroy Serbia? And he hasn't given up yet, and you'll see how things will continue to develop, there'll be more pressure, there'll be threats, and there'll still be a lot of danger over our country, we can conclude in advance. He doesn't need Javier Solana's freedom of press in Serbia, he needs a smooth opportunity to work with his experts in a special psychological war. In Serbia, the fifth column works through individual media, through the Daily Telegraph, through "Today", through "Time", through "Our Fight", through Radio B-92, etc. What does that mean when the head of a powerful military pact, the most powerful in the modern world, comes to Belgrade and line up journalists? He's putting himself in the role of their editor-in-chief. The editor-in-chief of "Time" and "Our Fights" and "Today" and other similar papers is Javier Solana. I'm just surprised that he's already coming with the money, when he comes with his protection, why these editors, those journalists, he hasn't even shared the acts, so that we know that Veran Matic is NATO General, that we know that Curuvija is a NATO subordinate, that Grujica Spasovic, the child of Grujica, Major NATO and so on. That wouldn't surprise me at all, because they report regularly to their bosses and for what they do they get money and we have information that they get money and we talk about it openly. With this law, we put things in place. They had one lesson by regulation, a regulation is made when the government needs to react quickly. There were many reasons to react quickly. Now there's no more reason for us to react quickly, go by one system law and seduce order and not end freedom. He who believes that freedom of the press is the broadcasting of the propaganda-information political programme "The Voice of America", "Dece Vele", "Free Europe", "BBS", "France International", is wrong. Did you know that "The Voice of America" is absolutely not to be broadcast on America's territory? He can't. It's forbidden. Why? Because "The Voice of America" exclusively extends the official views of the American government. In the American form of democracy, if the government, through one medium, which is financed from the budget, weighs its own views, threatens the rights of others. In America, we're banned from the Voice of America, and with us, we're simply playing the local media that's going to re-emitting it. Oh, that can't be. And it will never be possible in Serbia, I'm sure of it. As for the level of punishment, the fines are harsh, the fines are high, but the fines are fined. Why do some attack such high sentences? I guess we're in favour of a more successful, more effective fight against crime. And this is one kind of crime, not so much of a social danger that we have to arrest, but high enough social dangers that they have to impose appropriate fines. He who is against these penalties advances to know that he thinks that he continues to insult, slander, fabricate, wage a special propaganda war, etc. He who has no intention of insulting, slandering, inventing, launching lies has nothing to fear. We have not said anywhere in this law that criticism of politicians, criticism of the political party, criticism of the state authority will be punished. We even encourage criticism. As members of the government, we publicly repeat that we believe that any objective criticism is precious to us. We ask that citizens criticize us to do our best to learn from it. We ask that political competition criticize us, but not to invent, systematically milk us, to wage a special psychological war. How many times has "Dnevni Telegraph" Slavko Curuvija, who has worked in the service of state security as a professional official, published how many times has he announced that the brand will be 9 dinars, and in May that electricity will accumulate 30%, so who knows what he's been publishing, that I'm not talking about these bombing announcements, the announcements of the beginning of the war, the sowing of panic in Belgrade, claims that there is no shelter, that the people are unprotected, etc. It just can't be held up anymore. They say they're gonna print a newspaper out there somewhere. They can print, but they still come under the influence of the law, if they distribute them in Serbia's territory, and they cannot endure the punishment. The sentence will apply to all who are given it on the basis of arguments, which the court appreciates and that is what this law adopts. I believe this is a good law and that this law will be remembered in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, in the history of the Serbian legal system as a good, valuable, law-made law which simply cannot be objected to.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u924	He has the word Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u925	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before I look back at the proposed Information Act, on behalf of the New Democracy Parliament Club, I want to, and I think I share the opinion of all here present, to express absolute disgust and protest over the latest kidnapping of two Tanjug journalists, who, by doing their job in Kosovo, have been kidnapped by the Cypriot terrorists. I believe that the state authorities must do everything possible to ensure that these journalists are freed as soon as possible, and I believe that the international organisations and the most powerful countries of this world must make the strongest pressure on the Albanian side, that no kidnapping on the territory of the southern Serbian province ever occurs again, and that the abducted journalists are released immediately. A new democracy principledly and consistently defends freedom of public word as one of the fundamental human rights. We believe and believe that this area should be regulated in accordance with civilization principles, as regulated in modern democratic countries, in line with the documents of international organisations of institutions, whose full member state wants to become. That is why New Democracy submitted the draft information law, which rests on those principles, for the second time in May of this year. Although according to the Rules of Procedure, the Government was supposed to deliver an opinion, and the proposal itself to be on the agenda of this assembly, it never happened. We advocate promoting the principles of objectivity and accountability, without any kind of censorship, pressure and repression towards the media, with the full protection of all those who could be injured and whose human dignity could be violated, the right to privacy and all rights that enjoy as free citizens of this country. The agreement between President Milosevic and Richard Holbrooke, whom New Democracy hailed as a patriotic act, not only opened the chances for a new chapter of relations with the world, but should have allowed the agreement to intimidate tensions in the internal political shadow and provide a strong momentum for democratic reforms. It is the agreement that should also be a motivation for promoting agreements and for reaching the broadest consensus in our country, especially when it comes to the most significant legislative projects. By adopting conclusions related to the resolution of the current political crisis at once a difficult moment for our country, the National Assembly, at the last session, has gathered enough courage and shown enough wisdom when it adopted amongst the adopted conclusions the one confirming Serbia's commitment to participate actively in contemporary European and global integration, economic, political, cultural and other processes. The urgent adoption of such an important system law, without trying to reach the widest consensus, makes it difficult to realize this important definition, because we have left little time and space to try together to make this legal project even better, to clarify some provisions and to insert some that could improve the legal text. The law in its first part speaks of the free word, the ban on censorship, which is quite certain for every praise and for being in the democratic tradition of the Serb people. The law, then, by drastic penalties, so far unknown in our legal system, practically leads to the possibility that certain solutions in application can turn into their opposite. In any case, responsibility is required, but it is not notified that punishment for the offence is financially extinguished by the media that has been punished. The promotion of responsibility, including punishment for a violation, cannot be disputed in any case, but it is disputed that in this way journalists and editorials, in a certain way, are intimidated and discouraged to fully use guaranteed rights and freedoms in public expression. It is necessary, and we suggest that we withdraw this legislative proposal today from the procedure, to come together to even better and better quality solutions, to give its expert opinion to professional associations and organisations, because we have had good examples of attempts to reach the widest possible consensus in this matter. On the proposal of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in the previous assembly session, a panel was organised on which we participated and where a very constructive and very professional debate was held, of course, with a debate in various news and professional associations initiated by the then Minister of Information. We feel quite certain that this law will be passed today. That is why the Serbian government, in any case, should lift the Regulation and all acts concerning the ban on the work of individual media, since the whole issue will then be regulated by this law. A team before, that preventing the breaking up of the press exclusively determines the competent court, not the government, because the government does not have the role of the court. We're in favour of fully regulating this issue. We are committed to achieving this with a broad agreement, because this is one of the fundamental system laws, which speaks very clearly and vividly about the state of democracy in the one country. It is absolutely certain that the government's original proposal and what came afterwards as a purified agreement is very different. It is also certain that some of the good solutions, which existed yesterday morning, have already been kicked out of the proposal today. One of the good solutions which, unfortunately, is not in this primary version is the obligation -- that public votes, which are in general or too difficult to finance from public incomes, means, the state media, are obliged to report on public matters in full, completely, impartial and timely terms. That public matters are an opinion and views are of importance to the community, as well as to encourage the exchange of views on public matters in the spirit of tolerance. Unfortunately, this is not from the original version entered into this final version. I believe that some of the solutions to this law are missing, because they do not speak in any way about the protection of journalists, the different needs, the different degree of protection of journalists, who can be very threatened in the performance of their profession and by their main and responsible editors, but who can be threatened by both circumstances and at times by difficult and very dangerous conditions of doing their job. In this country, practically, it turns out it's better to be a bear than a journalist, because bears have a higher level of protection. In the first draft of the law, the journalist is guilty of any information he releases in the paper, while the author of this information, or source, does not have any kind of responsibility. What is absolutely certain is that journalists must enjoy adequate protection, not just punishment for their unconscious actions. In any case, I think that if there is a good will, we can reach an agreement and come to a law with which we can, for a reason, be proud both as a people and as a state. For these reasons, new democracy will not vote for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u926	There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u927	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and friends, today we have a very serious job here to clarify, and this is a matter of the information law, which can have very serious consequences for everything that will happen from now on. Yesterday, three members of the interior ministry were killed in Kosovo and I think it is extremely important to acknowledge that we have an emergency situation in the country and that we have a situation that needs to be found out. We have come to the conclusion that we, the MPs, came to this copy of the law before the start of this congregation. We couldn't read it, we couldn't analyze it. We have come to this point that this National Assembly is mixing two very important things, which are information and propaganda. Informing and propaganda, comrades and friends, are not the same, and they are not the same for the simple reason that information contains elements of truth, and propaganda of seeing things the way someone wants to show it. In the law that we're being presented, it's highly mixed. Article 27, which has been a lot of misunderstandings around here, where it is clearly said that there is a ban on the transmission of propaganda messages from foreign states, I think there is nothing controversial about it. In this territory, in this sovereign country, there must be no propaganda messages from other countries and countries. There's nothing disputed about that. What is contentious -- "foreign broadcasting organisations that are the founders of foreign governments and their organisations". Who knows who's the founder of which media, who can know, in the conditions of a series of ownership gaps that can be reached, who's the founder, and thus opens the door to a series of abuses, to a series of manipulations, and to the ultimate line of repression that can get through this. Another thing I'd like to point to as an example is Article 78. The fourth paragraph reads: "The defendant is obliged to provide evidence during the oral search that the information published is true." This violates the sacred right of everyone until proven guilty to be innocent. Presumption is the basis of every civilised country's legal system. In other words, one cannot prove that he is innocent, but one who accuses him proves that he is guilty. It's something that's completely upside down and that's why this law, at least in these parts, is unacceptable. However, when I was searching for historical examples of this law, I finally found the basis for this. I got this copy of the law this morning. Of course, I had a copy of the law two days ago, obtained by informal channels, right across those channels that you won't be talking about here. The National - Socialist German Workers' Party programme, item 23, is written to the hair in this law. The only thing you haven't taken over from Hitler is that editors don't have to be members of the ruling party. It's the only thing that's different from Hitler's propaganda. - Read in the original. ) I would not be in the original, because Minister Vukic has already used too many foreign words in his pledoaje, so I would ask him to simplify it, because Latin Americans do not live in this country, so you see Latin and American sayings for other things. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Give Hitler's quote. Mr. Seselj, you're all being attacked and I'm not up for it. Absolutely not. I'm sorry you don't matter. You're just the right hand this country has the interest in. So there's nothing to talk about. You said the fraud entered the government, because the Socialists had a poster - for the Vojvodina I love. They lie and cheat at all. So, if we came in on their lie, it's our honor. However, you said that Voice of America is forbidden in America and I see that you would ban the voice of Serbia in Serbia. Little won't do, my dear gentlemen. Why did you close Radio Senta? Why is it that a program that has been implemented as bilingual, where there are all the conditions for such a thing, where the frequency is fairly paid, you shut it down without any legal basis. In the same way, it's closed down a number of other media outlets. I fully agree that one state must defend itself from the propaganda war against it, but informing is not propaganda, informing is a matter of truth. There is only one truth, but the truth is not what the government or this congregation decides to be true. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Where is Hitler's quote? At least you know, that's what you learned from school. You know that Mr. Curuvia is a fat man, thank God when you were sitting in the same office. I wanted to say that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure and we will come out with a new law, which we will propose to you for the next assembly. The first wolves throw themselves into the water, according to the duchy-national saying, and that's why we're asking for the law to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u928	The People's Messenger Dragan Veselinov has the word, and let the Messenger Jemail Suljevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u929	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few words... (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: you are drunk. No, you're drunk. You're redder than me. I guess you're twice my size. (A voice from the O.R.: It's not forbidden to come in drunk. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u930	Please don't throw it away. Let the MP speak. Mr. Vesenov, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u931	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, war and criminal government, war and criminal law. There's a special difference that it can't be. So, the war government and the criminal government, war and criminal law. I want to ask the socialists what they're so afraid of. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: you are drunk. That would be good, what would be the battle if I were sober? What would happen then? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We didn't say it was bad that you were drunk, but we realize it's good that you're drunk. You're even drunker and you can't stop. At least I can help myself. Wait, Seselj, wait for the radicals. Why are you laughing? Did the Socialists let you do that? You're with them in the government. Wait for the sign of Gorica Gajević or Mr. Angelkovic, to give you the sign that you are laughing or to comment on something. Don't be like this. Hold on to the coalition, hold on to the college, wait for the bosses to give you a sign, and don't be like this. You're disrupting coalition discipline. So if in this country the judicial system were independent I would be very happy with this law, because this law in many ways would bring you under attack. You fought for the constitutional collapse of Yugoslavia, you advocated the theory of vulnerable borders, stretching borders and Mr. Seselj from Vrsac to Karlobag, perhaps to Hollywood. You were the ones who spread national hatred, you were the ones who spread social chauvinism, you were the ones who dragged this country into a war adventure. It was you who ruined Serbs in both Bosnia and Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u932	Mr. Vesenov, the information law is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u933	That's exactly what I'm talking about. So you'd come under the influence of this law. The only thing that you dare to be arrogant like this, and feel safe, is that your justice system is in your hands and that your judges, your judges, who you have secretly joined, are loyal to you. This law in many ways is not controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u934	Please don't throw it away. (It is heard that Vojislav Seselj was cast: "What law are you talking about?" )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u935	That you want to limit the impact of propaganda, some state media and foreign countries...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u936	Minister, please...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u937	It can be done, and at the end of the line it's not disputed. Why would RTS need to broadcast the BBC, the Voice of America, or maybe some other state television? (It is heard that Vojislav Seselj is being thrown: It is now on the agenda of the Police Academy. ) However, as you constantly interfere with Seselj, you are confused, you do not know what is said. You thought you were gonna kick me out of the game, but you won't. Well, you've been kicked out of touch so you've been brought into this government, and it looks like that's what you wanted. You can't get me out of the beat, so you can jump all 150 of you in the coalition. You're not gonna make it. Mr. Tomic, do you measure these intruders, so I have...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u938	No, your time is measured there.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u939	Right now, let me say that we will be against this law, this law is offensive and this is a scandalous law, this law not only attacks the press, but also threatens to prey on the property of all the free media in the country, as well as the responsible persons, but of course they do not threaten to rob Mr Vojislav Seselj's property. (It is heard that Vojislav Seselj was cast: I have no property. You do, you're the founding owner of the Greater Serbia list, so tell me, what are you talking about? (We hear the throw of Vojislav Seselj: Guess. What do you do now, this game that sits here and makes noises? You own Big Serbia, and you make these people buy you that list and make them distribute that list for free, you use the whole party for your personal needs, and you put profit in your pocket, and they have nothing. You're using the whole game for that. What's wrong? That's what you do, and that's what you stand for in the press. Now, I'm going to move on to you, because that's a better way of talking. This law that you are now proposing on information is an insult to how many or so inherited traditions in the effort of many good journalists in this country to make the truth available to everyone, and the information is in truth different from propaganda. What you're threatening is the closure of many media, and in the meantime you've closed some. You're threatening to close the paper in ten days and rob the property of the editors-in-chief in just ten days. Not just that. I would like to ask Mr Markovic, my colleague from the university, in which the country is being impaled to the door in the first attempt to call a suspected party to court, in which country. In which country the court is ordered that within 24 hours, the suspect must be brought to court, and if that is not in a position to bring a verdict within 24 hours. In America? Seriously. (It is heard that Mr. Vojislav Seselj was cast: Have you been to America? You were and you received a false title - the Duke. I was, but I didn't get a fake title, I was just giving classes. As a platoon, which was taken away, shut up. So, I ask Mr. Markovic in which country is on the first call, and Seselj would implore it by the door, within 24 hours to order the court not only to schedule a search, but to reach a verdict. In which case the court is ordered that within 24 hours a verdict must be reached and the right to confiscate the entire property if the suspect or accused is not able to pay for it. In what country? In ten days, you're able to rob any media, any newspaper, and rob any editor-in-chief. Such a law is a disgrace to Serbia and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u940	I thank you, there is the word of the People's Messenger Jemail Suljevic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Ratimir Svircevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u941	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I say anything about the proposed information law, I must put on one of the remarks that is repeated, which is how we call the session of the Assembly and, of course, the way the materials are called and delivered. I think it's inadmissible, especially when it comes to such an important legal document, that it simply comes to a session without being examined or simply not read. I would really ask, at least as far as we're concerned, an MP from Sandzak, that material be sent to us in time in the future. As far as the proposed law is concerned, I really don't have the illusion that we're going to pass a democratic information law, I don't have the illusion that the citizens of this country will be truly informed, because what democracy is in this country is normal is that such a law will also be passed. I am saying this, of course, from the experience of Sanjay, because for the past ten years we have been under not only an informative blockade, but also heavy attacks by the media of the Republic of Serbia, or the state media, who have indeed done great damage when it comes to international relations in Sandzak, Serbia and Yugoslavia. I believe that many of the problems that exist, the lost trust between citizens of different nationalities, that the media involved the most, of course, the regimeal media. I'm not going to say anything about this law anymore, but I'm going to ask two questions. Whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will return Novi Pazar to the municipality of Novi Pazar, the citizens of Novi Pazar, and whether the newly formed public information company Radio Sjenica, which was closed last year, will be released. I don't have the illusion that it will be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u942	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Ratimir Svirčević; and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Vucelic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u943	Gentlemen, today we are at an extraordinary opportunity to pass a law on information, in addition to an existing one, and despite a proposal that I do not know about when and why it is withdrawn. You know what I mean. About which were the panel discussions, discussions, traveling circus. By the way, it's a law I've been saying is extremely bad, but every time you prove that there's always worse than worse. I'm going to try to say a few words, not getting involved in legal formulations, I'm not professional enough about any proposals to fix, change and the like, this proposal. I would simply say that the proposal is such that it doesn't deserve to be discussed at all. More should be discussed about its authors, responsible for its proposal and possible adoption, and any possible consequences that may arise, and the procedure not to speak. The procedure is almost offensive to the MPs, and that's all some of us see, and some of us don't. If it seems right to you that from the proposal to the hearing it's been 10 to 20 hours and we get it last night, from a tooth called Novi Sad, where the mail rarely comes in, then I don't know... This is an extraordinary creamworth that man gave me. [[Comments are not heard]] You know that railroad joke? Tell that to your friend there, to be serious. [[growls]] It's not? I'm surprised you're the same. He says he can't sign anything, and he can't write if three of them don't shake his desk. I guess I can't talk if you don't throw. Try not to throw once and see, then maybe you'll confuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u944	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u945	I'd like a few now... I don't want to talk about it, but I'd like to ask a few questions, or questions about what's ahead of us, and we have before us a law on public information. First of all, this bill should cover a regulation prohibiting three lists and two three radio stations, in addition to the existing law that exists and which is still in force. It seems that the law was not murderous enough, so one murderous decision had to be made, or regulation, and it had to be followed. It has introduced fishing measures, confiscations, in one word eclative examples of human rights violations, and instead of better abolishing this regulation, so that the world doesn't look at us, that we don't embarrass ourselves, we turn this regulation into a law. So, if it's from you, it's a lot. I ask you further, what does the bill mean - political-propagandic content? Who's gonna find out? Who's gonna be the executioners? Next, I'm asking you what it is - non-commercial content. Let's hear it. That's what you threw out. In the text in Article 27, last night, there is -non-commercial content,... [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] I'm attacking you so you don't even know what you're writing. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] The Socialists probably let you do it, or they told you to drop it, and then Seselj doubled his sentence. And that's the deal. It's a question of this non-competitional content, and it's completely pointless and it's good that it's out. Yeah, he's gone at noon today. Gone. I see and I say Now let me ask you-- how will you determine who the founder of the public reads in the West? [[Laughter]] Do you mean Todorovic, who by profession is a businessman? Is that what you mean? Of all the waists I've never heard of before. Here, the man says, that's not what I said. Is it private, government, NGO, is Murdoch, Springer, Sorosovo, I don't know whose -- who's going to find out? And, imagine, non-commercial content. Well, it's commercial today when people give blood. For commercial reasons, the poor give blood and it is charged, let alone television. But that's what I told you. You didn't even know (response to comments in the O.R.). It's obvious, I don't know, look out. So non-commercial television doesn't exist with us or in the world. Do you have any questions? So Maja Gojkovic looks at me that I feel like she's always trying to ask me something. And he's right. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] So you can also declare everything political propaganda, which suits you, and how, for example, The Indians in the Amazon jungle choose their chief. Do you understand? Compared to how we choose our chief, so it's a connotation, so we declare it, some of those who throw the first dogs -- wolves, and then the disaver is banned. Right? Come on, what you've banned, but what's going to happen to that station, those reporters or the editor-in-chief? That's where you predicted the dragon's sentences. Well, that still increased by twice since last night. If we could work another day and we could make it... When it comes to punishment, that's where you even did it, that the Vlachs don't get it, that you stayed in the area of the offense, and that I don't know if there's a world out there that can be paid for one offense. I've never heard of that. It's possible, but... Some unfortunate owner or editor-in-chief should be held accountable as if he were a serial killer, because you're about that level of punishment you predicted. Which is a lot, even if it's for a lied or a recorded lie. Listen, even if it's a lie, it's a lot. Now we have come to the right question - is the most important truth in the proposal for a law on information. According to this proposal and in my opinion, it's not. And now I'm going to tell you why. Because it forbids broadcasting and re-emissioning and so on, whether it's true or false. It's about who's broadcasting it. Where is it in the world? Well, I guess it's important what's being broadcast, what's the quality of this broadcast, and not to be eliminated in advance by an entire group of media and said that it can't. It's primarily uncivilized. Do you know why the Alexandria library was burned? Here's Seselj who boasts that he's highly educated? No, no, but -- why was it burned, not -- who burned it. Let's hear it? You don't know. Because it didn't exist in the religious canon of the conquerors that it destroyed. He saw the papers he saw -- there's no Alexandria library there, burn. You say - The voice of America, the BBC, it's not in our ideological matrix, it burns. It's your face. (Dr. Seselj, from the place: You couldn't, you couldn't... Based on this bill of law... [[Laughter]] He's very protective of me, he's yelling at you - but it's like you're in kindergarten. Based on this proposal for the laws of this government, and you, if you adopt the same, don't think of entering Europe and the world. It almost doesn't occur to you to engage in world and European flows. One of the basic criteria is the compatibility of legislation. This bill is only compatible with the proposal to unite with the misunderstood ZND - what is it, the community of independent states, right? With one Belarus, maybe North Korea, so there's Libya, Cuba, some Iranians, Iraqis, etc. The law is compatible with such legislation and with the European law. Dr. Seselj, from the scene, who would you be with? In Europe alone, in Europe, that's our closest, that's our neighbors, that's our tradition. I'm from Vojvodina and I need a pen and I need a Europe, I need a computer, I need an Internet, and I don't need radicals. If we want to go to Europe and the world, these laws must first show that we are ready. If it is known in the morning, Europe and the world will never be further from us. Mircic, you boasting that you were the director of Cable, and you were the head of security there, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u946	Mr. Scrooge, please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u947	That's what he said to the Industry Committee -- he says, "I'm the youngest director of Novacabel in the history of Novacabel," and I'm sitting there, I can barely stand it. I didn't mean to say it was a formal session. We have a decision ahead of us, a decision to make - are we going to Europe or the world, or... But since you've proven that there's always worse, God help us. I think I've made myself clear, we're in favor of rejecting this bill. Let me tell you what we are for, if you're interested. (Dr. Seselj, from the place: it is not said, which we are, but for what we are. All right, that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u948	Please, Mr. Scrooge, you've been out of time for two minutes. You have a dialogue with them, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u949	Thank you, there are good people here. I think the information law issue is being resolved on a federal level, to pass a federal law, because what you will achieve other than embarrassing Serbia and all of us still more complicated relations with Montenegro, within the SRJ, because each abolished, banned, sealed and robbed paper can begin to come out in Montenegro. We're not for that kind of solution, but you're just pushing it. After that, when the problems with Montenegro are escalating so much, then it will be that it is the collapse of the state, so what is a succession, whose is gold, whose are embassies, whose debts, and the world goes to the XXI century. As long as it takes, I'll help.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u950	Here's the third minute, Mr. Whistle.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u951	We of Vojvodina always suggest rational solutions, and you do not listen. You listen to the radicals and their vocabulary, you've heard it today, many times, understanding the rights and state in their own way. There's no Europe, no world, and there's nothing to do with common sense, so they derrogate the court, impose the long-forgotten words of the type - defetism, the enemy never sleeps, my Belarusian-Chinese-North Korean brothers, special psychological war, etc. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u952	Thank you. After giving up MP Vucelic, he has the word of MP Zeljko Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u953	Dear Mr. President, I would like to say just a few words about this proposal for an information law, since we have at least had the opportunity to hear what kind of sublime and discreet word we have on this bill. I think it is indeed a very important document, which solves a comprehensive matter in an extremely concise and precise way. All misunderstandings arising from this document are related to the misunderstanding of its essence, i.e. the absence of a need to read it properly and thoroughly. If it is thoroughly read (I would ask you only for a little peace and a little decency, if at all possible), therefore, it is easy to understand that it is a document that affirms the principle of individual freedom, in order to really come to what many think is necessary. So, in order to gain freedom of collectiveity, freedom of all. However, here some absolute freedom, which is in full correlation with anarchy, mixes with freedom in democracy. So no one finds it appropriate that the analytical word discusses the document itself, which does not identify absolute freedom anywhere, which is the introduction to any kind of dictatorship and despotia. This is about stopping any possibility of abuse of freedom of journalistic speaking, which we have had many times the opportunity to see, especially lately. Many media have been opening up to that side, which is contrary to the interests of this country, and that is more than clear. It is enough to lower at least one light, fast and letharic view of the titles so-called. independent press, which is everything else before just not independent, which is both authoritative and financially dependent on other power centers, so make it clear that it is not engaged in any kind of information or information as such. So it's that here, in my view, is actually the importance and principle of freedom, but freedom in democracy, which means respecting certain principles, and that principle that are embedded in all democratic institutions around the world. So if it is understood as one of the notor principles offered by this document, then no misunderstanding can be that it offers any possibility of repression. He just stops any possibility that journalists can create events, not write about them. So it is that, in any case, this document, in my deep confidence, should be supported for a number of reasons. The first is that he is decidently saying that it is impossible to introduce any kind of censorship, therefore, that there has been a complete affirmation of freedom of journalistic speaking. It does not prevent any possibility of expressing its views on important political issues, but it is clearly made known by this document, which is subject to many European standards and many European countries, that individual freedom cannot be compromised in any segment. As far as penalties are concerned, whether or not rigorous, once again, if one look at a comparative analysis with similar documents of the Western countries, then it will be seen that the penalties are not so rigorous, that it is only that one must be trusted...... (incomprehensible) which has indeed begun to car with Serbia and which is related to certain media, which, in practice, have lived in a non-verbal freedom. So a freedom that was not limited to anything. I listen very carefully to the opponents and I listen very carefully to them, but I have not been able to find a single argument, except a series of expressions and a series of sharp words, which are referred to at the expense of individual members of the government, which is the expression of some personal animosity. We're not talking about sympathy and antipathy here. We have a document in front of us, which is a lot of turning points, which is determined by the fact that none of us, especially those people who are in very responsible places, will be in a position to read any newspaper, which in any case, I repeat, is authoritatively dependent on other centres, where someone, during the night, or during the day, will, however, declare you morally or politically dead, and the next day, ask you whether you are alive or not. So we have indeed faced the absence of any norms, and I see this law as some kind of pro-podetic act, which introduces a elemental order, which is consistent with all the principles of the democratic world. No one here could say a single word against this act, and in accordance with these elements that I was talking about, which are important to European standards. So if we want to talk seriously, and we have to, then we're going to see that there are a series of acts that are embedded in this document, which are, by some interpretors of a repressive character, far from any possibility of comparing to those elements in Western countries' legislation. I was deprived of any need to speak anecdotes, but anyone who visited Paris could see that you could never watch an English film without it being recorded in French, that it would not be sown. You know what I mean. If at one point we are inclined to see a model in certain European civilized countries, if we are inclined to compare, why not compare only the fact that you can watch movies here, and the titled ones, with the freedom to listen to the original language in which the film is made. In other European countries, that is not the case. So Nasinchronization is something that is imperative, not to mention other norms. It is also important to me that a sharp distinction be drawn between freedoms as understood and freedom as it should be with a role model in all democratic countries. In this document, I found no single element where freedom, understood as freedom in democracy, would be violated. If that were the case, I'd like any of you here, and I'm not talking about those who have left the hall, which is more about them than about the rest of us here, so let's say what's going on here, to point your finger at a specific member, who is offended by any possibility of limiting the freedom of correct and ethically worthy journalistic action. I've listened very carefully and read the document even more carefully, and I don't think there's any place for any serious criticism, which would raise the question, as someone said, of undermining the democratic principles on which this entire system rests. I see this act, which the government has filed, as an effort to strengthen the democratic institutions of the system. Democracy never in any system will be very easy to find with any theorists, does not represent or propagate absolute freedom. Democracy is advocating a very precise restricted space, in which each individual can move, and on the other hand something that some here have spoken very relephantly and plastically, which is the empowerment of ethics, responsibilities, work and honesty. Under this law, as the promoter stated in his exposé at the very beginning of the session, it is stated that this document serves these principles and postulates, which I was talking about and cannot be questioned, at least as far as I'm concerned. So they're affirming freedom of journalistic action. On the other hand, not only with an expression, but also in the spirit, it is obvious that there is no possibility of censorship, a ban on interpretation. What is being made impossible, and so far meant as one notor fact, as an axiom, is that newspapers serve to make events, not to inform the public, comprehensively, truthfully and objectively. We're in a paradoxical situation. I'll stay away from any anecdotes, because the opportunity isn't like that. For a reason, many have characterized the document as historical, but in the alphabet of a journalistic statement, it says that very rarely a newspaper can publish the news that the dog bit a man. Good acquaintances of journalistic practices and theories advocate the principle by which only the text in which a man bit a dog can appear. However, we have come to the situation that we read from day to day newspapers, which are automatically called independent, in which people are unfairly disappointed, in which the country is brought into a situation in which it is objectively and realisticly not, in which the information that is fully invented is published, which is in complete accordance with the political practice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Slobodan Milosevic, which, indirectly, I am saying because it is a product of what they are doing, and it is not a directly important and important thing, this people collectively brings into a very difficult situation, which is anyway, without these additions, difficult and serious, as some have warned for a reason. Therefore, we have come to a situation where news is really not the sort of news that Serbia is not able to resist the pressures, look only three weeks back, we've had dates for the announcement of the bombing, places that will be bombed. We have had situations to mention since 1993 more than 400 titles, which envision fantastic inflation, which will not be able to withstand a test of time and similar situations, which are absolutely not to serve the honor of the newspaper, but rather not allow one serious government and a serious parliament to continue such a situation. So I fully accept this document precisely for the reasons that I have presented, because I think that in one total chaos and anarchical state of absolute freedom, in which the insults and difamation of individuals are practically the basic thing that appears, and the interests of the country are not represented in a way that would be consistent with their interests. All in all, when underlining one serious line, it is a document, which, when going from member to member, deserves serious attention. I practically have no serious objection to this document, except to propose to my colleagues and colleagues this document for adoption. With an apology for being longer, I thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u954	There is a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic, and let MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy prime minister of the government, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u955	The honourable MPs, the Honorable President, the proposal for a law on information, which we are talking about today, contributes primarily to the reaffirmation of responsible and objective information, which we often forget about. Such a law precisely regulates relations in the field of information, not, as some journalists and some political parties have said in advance, to restrict the freedom of the media. It's obviously a different understanding of media freedom. Surely, freedom of the media is not an unlimited right to untrueness, but a commitment to truth and professional journalistic ethics. And what is our media space today in Serbia, is the freedom of the press really limited? Such claims are denied by the facts. Today in Serbia there are about 300 radio stations, about 100 TV stations, about the press not to talk. The largest number of these media outlets is privately owned. Almost every major settlement today has its own local radio station, radio and TV station, which, regardless of its modest technical and personnel potential, compete in the production of information-political programmes or in the transmission of foreign cell programmes such as "The Voice of America", "Free Europe" CNN, BBC and others. Someone would say, it's so everywhere in the world, but it's not. I'll give you some examples. Austria doesn't have private television. Media power, therefore, is centralized in this country. But also in those countries where the media is mostly private, the state is respected. Therefore, it is quite clear, it is about informing in the interests of the state. This is the case of CNN in America, BBC in England, and others. Some media have made public thesis on the state's monopoly in the field of public information. That, of course, is not true. On the contrary, the state itself creates competition with its media by issuing permits to many private owners to open radio and TV stations. Many of these newly opened stations register for cultural and entertainment programs, and then start to deal with political and informative content. This would not happen in America, because in this country, which is a model of democracy for independent media, media houses that have the right to information-political programmes must be registered in particular. How are our media today? Most of the so-called independent media are mainly not concerned with information and information, but with forecasts, forecasts of events, prophesying, and also with participation in those events, for which they show interest in mentors of these media. It is a kind of media war, which has been won in force these months and today, when our country is under unprecedented pressure and threats from all sides, especially when it comes to the cosmic problem. The media has special emphasis on some Western countries. Unfortunately, they are taken over by some local newspapers, whose journalists simply race to spread falseness and convey the wishes of world powers. A single note in general looks like a black section, all with two goals. The first is, to get their sponsors and their performances in the best light, of course, under the quote. Associations, to sell newspapers or programs. The truth is irrelevant, even if it's about its own people. It's important for the title to be as big, scandalous, sensational as possible and to bring money. For foreign media, I understand, but I wonder whose interests some domestic information funds work for. Just check the Daily Telegraph, "Today", "Our Fight" and some more and read the headlines. For example, "OKD in offensive", "Peak before the fall", "NATO arrives with the first snow." Let's get to the field of sports. I remember before our basketball players went to Athens for the World Cup, their message was with the big title "It's Far Gold". Luckily, the boys came back with a gold medal. Where's the truth here? It's patriotism we're not even talking about. Or, radio programs: Studio B, Radio Soko Banja, Radio Kragujevac and others persistently broadcast "The Voice of America" and a show that is broadcast exclusively in Serbian, in an extremely unobstructed, one-sided way and in general directed against our country and people. Why are Radio Free Europe shows being downloaded, whose programmes are swarming with untruth about Serbia and Cosmet? If we add to this the fact that the main screenwriters of this radio station are SOROŠ and Madeline Albright, then the picture is complete. These media, as well as some of our own, simply race in courting the Shiptar Separatists, indicate only their sources. The KLA's terrorist organisation is referred to as a regular army. They equate terrorists and legal state authorities, and the billing of state authorities with terrorists calls the offensive of Serb forces. Where is the truth here and where is the defence of the interests of its own country? The following can be found from all of this: The media, some, unfortunately, are turning into propaganda agencies, instead of being informative houses. It is obvious that journalism is no longer that, but an open political engagement for the unclean purposes of the famous tutors. The state must regulate relations in this area and affirm the legal proposals of the original principles of journalism. This is achieved by the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u956	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic, and let Milovan Bojic, Deputy Prime Minister and People's MP be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u957	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, just a few days ago, Serbia was going through one of the biggest crises in its history. Today, many forgot what the crisis in Serbia looked like, who caused it and who encouraged it, who helped spread panic, defetism, desertion and fear. Today, I have learned from MPs who, unfortunately, have left this hall that we should not pass the law that America tells us we should not bring it, that we should ask America how we're going to fix the country, and my children have been growing up with a question for seven years -- when America is going to bomb us. We were at war against terrorists, and we had to negotiate with the NATO Pact, which threatened to attack us. We are according to the laws of this country, applying standards that would apply all the countries in the world, root out terrorism. Instead of helping us in that fight, they threatened to bomb us if we continued to deal with terrorists. And then when we signed an agreement that did not endanger any member of Serbia, it seemed to them that it was not enough and that the attack on the other hand should begin. At the time of some of the most difficult newspapers, some television and radio stations placed themselves in the service of those who threatened to bomb us. The Serbian government reacted quickly, brought to the Regulation prohibiting the transmission of propaganda messages from other states broadcast in Serbian and ordering the Ministry of Information to make public remarks if they violate the provisions of the regulation before applying sanctions. I expected the media to react and their readers or viewers to react. You saw, at their gatherings that expressed their protest against such a regulation, that hundreds of people gathered. Those who gave us trust, those who voted for the formation of the Government of People's Unity in this assembly of 187 MPs, know very well that they entrusted their fate with safe hands, in the hands of the Government of National Unity. The government of national unity now, with the relief that exists in Serbia, has time to pass a long-prepared Information Law. I'd just like to point to three goals or explain to you through three questions why I'm here for this law. We should know who and what is protected by this law. First of all, there's a man, an individual, and his privacy. And so far, the law has pointed out that you can't bring out lies, lies, slanders, misinformation, that you embarrass a man, that you get into his privacy, that you spy on him to publish it. But the sanctions, apparently, were low, the urgency of the courts was not commendable, and they thought, those who did this job, that they could do it suddenly. I don't blame them. That's why they never missed their hair. Today, the privacy of a man, his personal freedom to live in this country by acting under the Constitution and the laws of the state, free to be immeasurable from anyone, not to worry about whether anyone will invent anything about him, protect him with very high penalties. How many founders and how many editors-in-chiefs are going to rebel against these high sentences? They can count on the fingers of one hand. Today, we have protected every citizen of Serbia by paying between 100 and 300,000 dinars, and the editor-in-chief, or responsible face 50 and 150 thousand dinars. Well, now, please, the one who thinks he can invent, insult, embarrass, slander and lie should act on the folk proverb that was created at the time of Dušan's Law, when the punishments were pronounced by the beatings of the tour. Well, let him ask nicely if he can handle the punishment. Have him look at his giro account. If there are 300,000 dinars on it, let him lie freely, and let him slander. If he doesn't, he better do his job in accordance with this law. This is not the law of one political party, this is not the law of one minister, this is not the law of two vice presidents. This is the law passed by the National Assembly. Indeed, today I felt offended that only Mr. Seselj and Vukic are mentioned as the creators of this law. We were all involved in the work. Mr. Bojic even negotiated with Miles about making this law, Please, Serbia is in this condition. [[Laughter]] Serbia is a small country with great history, with brave people, Serbia does not exclude itself from the world. Serbia wants to talk to the world. He won't humiliate himself, and he won't serve. We'll take this Miles whenever he wants to come. But to come and whine because no one can lie in Serbia anymore, which no one can slander, which no one can carry "The Voice of America", we'll give a nice glass of water until the attack passes, we'll say goodbye to him to go, to arrange for what he's authorized to do. In Serbia, we won't be able to interfere. Who would want to protect those who spoke against this law today? A handful of people. A handful that shamed both journalism and journalists, a profession like that. It is not these children who work for the lists that have come under the sanctions of the regulation, for the sheets, for the televisions that may even come under the power of this law. It's the founders, the editors-in-chief and the editors-in-chief. I sent these kids a nice fatherly advice a month and a half ago from this booth -- that when they work for such media, when they get paid, they know that the salary came from America, from Germany, from France, from England, in order not to pay them to write well about the Serbian and Serbian people, but to pay them for it when there's nothing wrong, they have to invent to fill the pages. I was disgusted by the Daily Telegaph last year, or last year, when an old lady with underpants was posted on the front page. They said it was in Calemegdan. The next day they apologized to that old woman, but they didn't remember not to publish it, but to publish it, they wrote sensationally. My God, they announced today, and they apologized to the woman whom they all recognized, and they caused her great shame and shame. The newspaper can no longer be serious in Serbia, no one can take it seriously anymore. Last night I heard threats, I heard a lot of insults at the expense of some people. That's understandable. At least members of the Serbian Radical Party have never sued anyone, nor will they sue for slander, insult, lies, fiction. We defend ourselves by being taller and stronger than that. Just one more aspect. Who is threatened by the passing of such a law? Spies, mercenaries, lies, slanders. I wouldn't pay any attention, and I wouldn't protect those people at all, and I wouldn't stand up for them at all from this pay phone. You know, it's understandable that one man wants the state to give him as much rights as he would like to have, but the state is governed by other principles. In the state of principles, freedom determines the congregation's majority, mostly by law. Sometimes the government regulations, for which there is, of course, a legal remedy to verify whether they are in accordance with the laws and with the Constitution. In this country, the National Assembly will determine its laws that the citizens of this country will rule in it. This law has nothing to object to. This law is one in a series of laws that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will have the opportunity to adopt in both extraordinary and regular sessions. This law is a sign that Serbia is seriously working to fix the situation, to welcome and welcome more blackmail and threats, to welcome such media, to the media that have spread the lie that it is proud to be against the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, to the media that are being paid from abroad, and for that small money to perform high-level services across Serbia, we will no longer expect to see the crisis. So I recommend to those who defend individuals and those who do this work to look for a country where people and the state can spit without any sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u958	There is a word from MP Milovan Bojic, deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u959	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I belong to those MPs who want this National Assembly to have little more understanding for directors and editors-in-chiefs of the banned media. I beg you, losing a good, lucrative foreign business and foreign payments is not easy and it should be understood. Even more needs to be understood by those who lied for individuals. They and the individuals have gone to a lot of trouble, because it is a great truth to them that he who lies about you will also lie against you. No one here today says that the Government of Serbia's regulation is just a broad package of measures and actions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to address certain conditions and relations under the conditions of NATO's armed threats to our country. We did not go in this wide package of measures in isolation to the media, but in this wide package of measures, we defined supplies, shelters, supplies, communications, and funds for public information. The disorientation of those affected by this regulation is incredible. I, according to Vice President Nikolic, had the opportunity to receive several ambassadors to foreign countries in Belgrade, who expressed their great alleged concern over the consequences this regulation has and believe me, they had consolidated texts of a new law on public information, with the names of editors so-called. independent votes, i.e. funds for public information in Serbia. I get it. I'm appealing to you and I'm doing everything we can to understand them, because they've lost that lucrative job and a good foreign exchange payment. I really don't understand how disoriented they are in time and space, and they don't think that the Serbian public information law will adopt the German Bundestag. Please, a beard doesn't make a philosopher, but a lie doesn't make a journalist. Some funds of public information have become on call or ordered spit shops for people, their dignity and their honor. Their readings have become factories of false or semi-truths, which function in principle -- the new lie is the best. But that factory stops by the same principle. It's a lie like a snowball. The more it rolls, the bigger it gets, and when it stops, it melts. So whoever's using lies from the root is going down. I saw it last night and listened to a bearded gentleman, a professional spy, who was desperate for a new law says he would no longer work, because he said he would not put his head on a log, but the night before that, he said he would put other people's heads on a skewer. So, this same gentleman, who has lived in the current system as a fat kidney, now can't understand that even a fat kidney can have a rock. It cannot function in the environment of truth, for it has become rich and physically protected. The same government of the Republic of Serbia is being attacked and branded as state hygienists, and they are God-given purests without blemish and fear, and here in their offices or close proximity they are ordering or typing anonymous performances that are being published entirely. Please, it's not a newspaper, it's garbage. Freedom of information is freedom at all, but a man is free only when he serves the truth. I agree with those who say that thanks to free information, the entire planet has become one village, but I dare say that the new Serbian public information law in this part of the village has marked every liar. The new law is liberal because it does not eliminate any freedom. It does not end the lie, but it temporarily punishes the lie. No one in the world, neither the state of Serbia, nor can, nor wants to give any advantage to lies. There's one more thing to add. There's a lot of good in the new public information law and for journalists themselves. Documented rapid truth will help relevant judicial authorities to fight crime more effectively and to function more effectively in the whole justice system and criminal law, but it also has another broad scale and range. It works against socially deviating phenomena and in preventing the protection of slanderers, because the slanderer only separates himself from crime.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u960	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 168, against eight, no one abstained, one MP did not vote, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. People's MP Life Cvetkovic has submitted an amendment proposing that the "XI Advertising" chapter be deleted from article 61, ending with article 65. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. Does the government accept this amendment? Sustained. After the government has accepted this amendment, it becomes an integral part of this proposal and will not be declared by the Assembly. People's MP Life Cvetkovic has submitted an amendment proposing that point 10 be deleted in article 75. I ask the Government's representative to plead for the amendment. Sustained. Since the government accepted this amendment, it has become an integral part of the bill and is not being declared by the Assembly. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft public information law in general. The vote was 170, against five, no one abstained, no four voted, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a public information law. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Police Academy, you have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 169 against five, no one abstained, no three voted, a total of 177 MPs in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the draft law on police academy in general. The vote was 168, against five, no one abstained, no three voted, a total of 176 MPs in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on police academy. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Violations You received and received a bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report by the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 167 against six, no one was abstentioned, no three voted, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the law on violations in general. The vote was 170, against seven, no one abstained, no two voted, a total of 179 MPs in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law of Infractions. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - AMENDMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to present to the National Assembly a proposal for changes in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He has the word of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u961	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Tomic, that today you find a point of the agenda that reads: The changes in the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In proposing this item of the agenda, I was primarily in charge of the need for continued policy achievement, which I exposed to you almost seven months ago, i.e. On 24 March this year, when I proposed the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and explained its programme. The programme is being realised by government members, who are rightly said to represent the Government of National Unity. Respecting the fact that the expertise, qualifications and political engagement of government members is not only carried out by the work of a number of government members in it, they are in a position to carry out other tasks, or they will do so very quickly. For these reasons, I propose that the National Assembly relieve a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia's Culture Minister Dr Nadu Popovic-Perisic of going to another post. At the same time, it is necessary for the National Assembly to realise that the minister without portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Beko, resigned from office because of the election for the chairman of the Management Board of the Zastava Group. By leaving these two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to other responsible social and state affairs, I am able to conclude that their contribution and work in the government in the past period has been evident and have left behind a visible personal trail. I would also like the future Government of National Unity to be recognized for its joint operation but also for creative individuals to choose as Culture Minister Željko Simic, the Master of Sociological Sciences, and for the Minister without portfolio Bogoljub Karic, the Master of Economic Sciences, the President of the Company "Brothers Karic". Both personalities are well known in our professional and political public, given that for many years they have been very successful in the affairs of the domain of culture and private entrepreneurship. Zeljko Simic was born in 1958 in Belgrade. He graduated law school and is a master of sociological science. He speaks English and French. In his work so far, he was an adviser to the president of the Republic of Serbia and the vice-president of the federal government. He published several professional books, which were translated into English, French, German, Spanish and Russian. So far he has won several social and professional recognitions, of which I especially award the prize he has just won, which is a prize for publishing venture in 1998. Bogoljub Karic was born in 1954 in Peća. He graduated from the Faculty of Mathematics in Pristina, a master of economic science. He is one of the pioneers of private entrepreneurship in Yugoslavia. In his work he exhibited exceptional creativity, tenacity and ability to gather and motivate people around major projects. He has developed contacts and business co-operation with businessmen around the world, as well as a large number of meetings with representatives of states and governments of a large number of countries. He is the winner of several Serbian and Yugoslav confessions. He speaks Russian and English. As an affirmative private entrepreneur, he is one of our most successful businessmen, and he is well known not only in our Republic but also beyond its borders. He is involved in solving general social problems, with a good comparative knowledge of the possibility of developing private entrepreneurship. For a reason, his future engagement in the Government of People's Unity is expected to be encouraging to develop this extremely important part of our economy. This part of our economy so far has been given extraordinary attention to the government, whose president I am, which is evident from the fact that these jobs have always been done by affirmative economic experts. I propose that the National Assembly select new members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u962	I thank the Prime Minister. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Milan Beko resigned as minister without portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which had been delivered to the MPs earlier. I am opening a debate on the government's proposal to resolve Dr Nada Popovic-Perisic's functions as culture minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. I remind you that the decision on the discharge of members of the Government is considered to be adopted if it was voted by most of the total number of MPs, Article 93(7). The Constitution. We move to a decision on the Prime Minister's proposal to resolve Dr Nada Popovic-Perisic's functions as culture minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to relieve Dr Nada Popovic-Perisic of the functions of the Culture Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. 168 votes against no one with abstentions voted five, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of the total number of MPs, has resolved Dr Nada Popovic-Perisic, the office of Culture Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, I am opening a debate on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that Article 187 of Rule 1. The Rules of Procedure on a proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia decide in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. Any suggestions? He's got the word of Ambassador of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u963	On behalf of the MPs, I agree that right now, in order to work more efficiently, we are voting publicly through the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-10-20-0.u964	So using the electronic system. You heard the proposal submitted by the MP of the People's Republic of Life Cvetkovic. It must be declared by the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Live Cvetkovic to decide on the government's proposal to elect two members of the government of the Republic of Serbia by public vote, using an electronic voting system. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. 170, against one, with abstentions, did not vote five, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has decided to vote publicly on the government's proposal to elect two members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the government's proposal to elect two members of the Serbian government, using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that according to Article 92(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the decision to elect members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. Before joining the vote, I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal from the Prime Minister to elect two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. They voted 172 against no, abstention one, not one, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the Prime Minister's proposal to elect two members of the Government of Serbia, with the majority of votes from the MPs present in the National Assembly, in the proposed composition, i.e. they have been elected for the new members: Mr Zeljko Simic, Minister of Culture, and Bogoljub Karic, as minister without portfolio. I ask the newly elected Government Ministers to approach and take an oath. [[Applause]] (The President of the National Assembly reads, and the newly elected members of the Government repeat the text of the oaths). "I swear to my work I will abide by the constitution and the laws and that the responsibility of the member of the government will be carried out responsibly and consciously." I ask the newly elected members of the government to sign and submit the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on your behalf, the newly elected ministers on the election. May I have your attention, we have one more item on the agenda. Be kind, take your seats, please. I ask the members of the government, the newly elected ministers, to take their seats. I'm asking for a little more patience, better to finish now than to continue tomorrow. Do you agree? - Agree. We're continuing our work until we're done. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE END OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the Yugoslav Left Parliamentary Group. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I put to the vote the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. 150 votes against no one, abstentioned, no one voted five, 155 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your efforts and your cooperation. The session is over with this.
