ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u775	Dear People's MPs, please take your seats, let's get started. Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The acts of terrorist gangs in Kosovo and Metohija have killed 94 members of the Ministry of Interior of our republic, 32 officers and soldiers of the Yugoslav Army, and I urge you to pay our respects to innocent victims and heroes who fell for Serbia and living together. Praise them! According to official records, 220 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. We have a quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that a sufficient number of MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of MP Zividadin Jovanovic, our foreign minister, at a meeting in New York. I would like to inform you that the president of the Republic of Serbia has been informed of this session. I would also like to inform you that they have been invited to attend this session by the President of the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly of Milomir Minic, President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I remind you that the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 was called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the agenda set out in that request. Before the beginning of the session, you were given a letter informing the National Assembly that at a session held on 25 September of this year for the Second Extraordinary Session, instead of previously delivered, the following Dn e d d 1 was established at the government meeting. The current security and socio-economic situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the Serbian Government's report on measures taken to normalise the situation in the province, with a proposal for conclusions; 2. Proposal for a decision on the education of the interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija; 3. Proposal for a decision to appoint the president of the interim Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, the government has announced that exposure to measures taken and the direction of solving problems will be submitted by Mirko Marjanovic, president of the Serbian government. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – ACTUAL SAFE AND SOCIAL-ECONOMY SITUATION ON THE KOSOVA AND METHOY AND THE REPORT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE SUPPOSED MEASURES FOR THE TERMINATION OF THE COUNTRY, WITH THE PROPOSE OF THE LOSSION Before the beginning of the session, you were presented with a proposal for a conclusion, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He has the word Mirko Marjanovic, president of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u776	Dear President, honourable MPs, Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija defends peace and freedom, territorial integrity and sovereignty, the independence and security of its citizens. Every time she defended the most national interests, Serbia did so resolutely and uncompromisingly. This is what the Government of People's Unity is doing today, as it sees it as the first national commitment and basic task. Serbia is constitutionally established as a civil state. The definition, guaranteed by the Constitution, as a top principle, is based on the experience of Serbia as a multinational community and the tolerance of the Serbian people, which has shown throughout history that they can live in peace in their country with people of another nation or religion. We have never denied the rights of others, and we will not agree to anyone endangering the rights of the Serb people, the civic orientation of Serbia and its territorial integrity and sovereignty. The government of the People's Unity has made clear the concept of a political solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija, which is in the interest of equality between all citizens, national minorities and ethnic communities living in this autonomous province. First, we have clearly confirmed the firm definition that political means and dialogue are the only time for a peaceful, successful, sustainable and democratic solution to problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Secondly, any solution must respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Third, solutions, which are thus established, must be in line with the constitutions of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the highest international standards in the area of human, civil and rights of members of national minorities. Fourthly, solutions must guarantee and ensure equality between both citizens and national communities and ethnic groups, prevent majorisation and threat to the rights of anyone living in Kosovo and Metohija. Fifthly, we are prepared to address the problems on the positive principles and assets of the UN Charter, the Helsinki Final Document, the Paris Charter of the OSCE-ai Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of National Minorities. The government of the Republic of Serbia has consistently managed these principles in all activities to address the problem in our province. They will also persist, as they alone can find solutions, which will set up self-government in a way that will protect Serbia and all its citizens, guarantee equality for all citizens and all national communities, preserve order and peace in Kosovo and Metohija and allow citizens to turn to development and the future. The problem in Kosovo and Metohija is not in human, civil and minority rights. They are guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia. The same rights are well-functioning by a much greater number of national communities in Serbia. They are selectively used by members of the Albanian minority in Cosmet, when it comes to treatment, pension, disability insurance, education and the like, and are used entirely by all other citizens everywhere outside Cosmet, throughout Serbia where they live. The main cause of the problem in Kosovo and Metohija is separatism, i.e. the operation of a separatist movement within the Albanian national community, living in Kosovo and Metohija, with the goal of dispersing Serbia. The movement has caused huge damage to Albanians themselves, as well as to all other citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija. This movement is anti-civilization, because it is aimed at creating an ethnically pure state. He is at the same time the greatest evil for Albanians because he is pushing them into conflict with all who are not. The separatist movement tried to achieve its goal, firstly, by organised partial boycott of use and partial violation of guaranteed rights and, secondly, by measures of self-insulating the Albanian national minority and then by attempting to getoisation through parallel institutions in education, health care and the like. When this did not give the expected results, when secessionist strategies made Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia weak, that their mentors were favored, and national homogenisation was completed, they started with terrorism as the most extreme, most exposed form of militant separatism, which was proven by crimes at sites in Kleška, Glodjani, Ratish and others, showed a Nazi face. Albanian separatists and terrorists have no intention of promoting human, civil and minority rights. Their goal is the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the ghettoisation of Kosovo and Metohija, the exorcision of all others living on the territory. In short, the destabilisation of the entire Balkan region to form some sort of Greater Albania. There can be no words about human, civil and any rights, when civilians are kidnapped, tortured, raped, massacred, killed by innocent citizens, women, children and old men, police officers and soldiers, and Serbs and Albanians, and all those who do not accept to take arms and fight them for a goal that will never be achieved. It's not a fight for rights, it's a crime against people and all their rights. In 1998 there was an escalation of terrorism by Albanian separatists in Kosovo and Metohija. A total of 1,273 terrorist attacks have been carried out since the beginning of the year. 569 attacks on citizens, including 140 people, including 64 members of the Albanian national minority, 37 Serbs and Montenegrins, 3 Roma and 36 so far have been carried out. Fifty-nine citizens are hard and 56 are easily wounded. 704 attacks were carried out on the members and facilities of the MUP. Ninety-four members of the MUP were killed criminally and manly, 20 of them from the reserve band, and 193 police officers were more serious and 160 were injured. A total of 249 people, 162 Serbs and Montenegrins, 74 Albanians, 10 Roma, one citizen of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, one face of Muslim and one Bulgarian nationality, were abducted by terrorists. It has been found so far that 93 citizens have been released, 9 have escaped and 29 have been killed. The fate of 118 citizens is not yet known. We do, and we'll do everything we can to make their fate come to light. In that period, 107 incidents were recorded at the border with Albania. In protecting the border from terrorists, 32 members of the Yugoslav Army lost their lives. Over the past 8 months, Albanian terrorists have also carried out 12 attacks on journalists, three on humanitarian workers and two terrorist attacks on diplomatic representatives. Albanian terrorists are trained in centres in northern Albania, Switzerland, Germany, Turkey, Denmark and other countries. Among numerous foreign mercenaries were mujahedin, religious Muslim fanatics. Terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija financed largely their activities by smuggling drugs, weapons and ammunition. The funds achieved by drug and weapons smuggling were used to buy military equipment, fund terrorist gangs, as well as activities by Albanian political parties in Kosovo. Serbia has been determined to stand in the way of that. Serbia has taken all the security, state, economic and social measures that have broken the terrorism of Albanian separatists, established peace and security in Cosmet and increased security for all citizens, regardless of nationality. The actions of members of the interior ministry and the Yugoslav Army have crushed terrorist gangs, their basic bases and stops, and military and financial logistics support from abroad has been stopped by closing borders. The security force's actions were exclusively directed against terrorists and their criminal intentions. In this they had to be prevented in the best interests of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. This is witnessed by numerous fortifications, weapons, equipment, documents and plans aimed at paralysing Kosovo and Metohija, stopping economic activities, disabling the supply of citizens and terrorist activities. The defence forces of the state and the people, the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Yugoslav Army, have committed all their obligations honorably, responsibly and professionally, with great sacrifice, personal courage and sacrifice. For proven professionalism, professional, patriotic and self-sacrifice relations in defence of integrity and sovereignty, we give them full recognition. Their actions cannot be referred to as excessive use of force. The force needed to break and neutralize their actions and intentions was used against terrorists, and this was done in a way and in accordance with how modern democratic states in Europe and the world are dealing with terrorism. The terrorists robbed, burned, kidnapped, destroyed communications using modern military weapons. It's duly responsible, as long as it took for terrorist gangs to be destroyed and arrested. At the same time as security measures, the Serbian government has done everything to activate political processes and has repeatedly called on representatives of the Albanian national minority to open and concrete, essentially, dialogue on problem resolution with the delegations of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since 10 March, over 15 calls addressed to specific addresses, to the direct involvement of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, they have not responded. Representatives of the Albanian political parties did not condemn the terrorists and the crimes they committed, which is what they themselves bear part of responsibility, because by refusing dialogue, by stalling them and sharing each other with each other, they fueled and practically supported terrorists in their intentions. Serbia had nothing to hide when it defended its territory and its sovereignty. Free access is allowed to all diplomatic representatives, as well as numerous humanitarian organisations and media, who could directly convince themselves of the situation in our province, terrorist crimes and security forces. With its measures, through public enterprises, with the Interior Ministry, the government has narrowed down terrorists' intentions to prevent infrastructure facilities and major economic systems in Kosovo and Metohija and ensure the functioning of these vital systems at a level that has allowed the lives and work of citizens in these difficult conditions. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also fulfilled all obligations under the Group's Three Plus Three Agreement and created conditions for a normal start of teaching at the University of Pristina, in line with the agreement reached, and in all primary and secondary schools. Your children are provided with normal schooling. The school year started on time. The government invested over 40 million dinars to create these conditions only this year. In some areas, where terrorist activity was the most present, many objects were damaged and burned. That's the damage our country and its citizens have suffered. That is why it is absurd to listen to the accusations that the damage is the result of the repression against civilians, especially when it is seen that there are up to one burning Serbian house on those premises. The government has launched a major humanitarian activity to resuscitate all buildings, to deliver construction material and its division to all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of nationality. At the same time, the government's initiative, with the help of Serbia's citizens, sent huge humanitarian aid, which was distributed to over 50 centres to all citizens who needed the help most. The centers were formed wherever necessary. So far, over 100 million dinars have been given aid to citizens. Over half of the sum was directed by the government through a Regional Development Directorate based in Pristina and other government organisations and institutions. The rest were provided by citizens, businesses, numerous other institutions, political parties, etc. The aid consists of building material, food, medicines, clothing, clothing, hygiene. According to available data, more than 150,000 citizens received assistance. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, together with members of the interior ministry's forces, have returned displaced persons to their homes, provided them with the necessary assistance to rebuild their homes and provide regular supplies to all necessary public services. In the last month alone, members of the Albanian minority from over 150 villages have voluntarily surrendered a huge amount of different firearms. Tens of thousands of different weapons and military equipment have been handed over. Weapons and military equipment are mainly originating in Albania, and in a significant part it is about modern weapons from Western and European countries and their armies, even those with spraying ammunition, which is banned by the international convention. There is peace in Kosovo and Metohija today. Life in Kosovo and Metohija is normal. The Republic of Serbia has narrowed down the secessionist's attempt to achieve their intentions by terror. Terrorist gangs have been destroyed, large numbers of terrorists arrested and disarmed. These measures preserved Serbia's territory, showing determination that we would not trade in Serbia, its freedom and its territory, that there were no guesses and compromises with those who, by force, would change relations in Serbia and create a new state on its territory. Serbia has once again shown that it is capable of solving its own problems, with full respect for the principles and standards of democratic states on human, civil and minority rights. I'm not going to say that all these problems in Kosovo and Metohija are solved, but everything that happened confirms that political resources are the only way to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija. A dialogue that would lead directly and openly, with a sincere intention to seek solutions on the common principles known to the modern world and realise in a way that would ensure peace and development in Kosovo, is a means of achieving and guaranteeing lasting peace, security and stability. The future of Kosovo and Metohija is not in prison, isolation and misery, as advocated by Albanian separatists, but in equality and strengthening international trust and understanding, preventing majorisation and any exclusiveness and extremes. Kosovo and Metohija have large natural and economic and, in general, material resources. The economic potential of these resources has been dimmed by the policies of separatists and terrorists. The future of Kosovo and Metohija is for these potentials to be activated, to start production, to open new plants and new jobs for many young and professional unemployed people. The government will do everything through the competent ministries to enable the government, state administration, judiciary, education and state in all its segments to function in Cosmet. This applies to the whole of the Republic as well. When the security of the state is threatened, every nelado, smuggling, unpaid tax, reckless public service work is equal to national treason. The government will strengthen the awareness of state authorities, their efficient work. To this end, we propose that the Assembly make a decision to appoint a provisional executive council in Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, we want all civil structures to function and provide the necessary conditions for all citizens in this province. The truth must go on about Kosovo and Metohija in the world, not lies that are in the role of destabilising the Balkan region from those who call Albanian terrorists guerrillas, the army and the liberating forces, refusing to put them on the lists of international terrorist organisations, together with those around the world. The media had full access to all parts of Kosovo and Metohija. All relevant facts were available to them. The media bear responsibility, those who launched lies about the mass graves of Albanians, just as those who closed their eyes in front of the crematorium in which the elderly, women and children were burned, after torture and rape, only because they were Serbs. The same case is with the so-called. humanitarian disaster. It is another expression in a series of attempts to make Albanian separatists and terrorists play the role of the victim. An attempt to stage a humanitarian disaster is another one in a series of media manipulations and frauds served by separatists and terrorists, which even deceived Mrs. Ogata, the high-ranking refugee commissioner. There is no humanitarian disaster in Kosovo and Metohija. None of this is true, all lies and montages are true, and this opportunity has proved to be so-called. The independent media is not in the function of truth, but in the function of lies, pressure, defetism, fear and hopelessness. However, the truth about the violence of Albanian terrorist gangs has gone to the world. Facts that are irrefutable should encourage media to be a factor that will contribute and encourage dialogue through objective intelligence and information, encourage the political process. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and peace and security for all its citizens is of top interest. Around Cosmeta, Serbia is determined, unique and unwavering. This people's will, expressed and confirmed in the referendum, is demonstrated by the unity of the largest parliamentary parties. I am convinced that the MPs of the National Assembly will reaffirm this unity today. Large forces and some countries in the international community are trying to use Kosovo and Metohija as an asset for their interest areas, the new end of the Balkans, the expansion of the area of influence and renewed imperialism and hegemonism, the achievement of influence control on this major traffic, military and economic transfer. This is no help for problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Instead, great forces should condemn terrorism, disabling terrorist support and assistance from their territory and removing double standards in the fight against terrorism. Squawking weapons, threats, and blockades are no contribution to solving the problem. The integration of our country into international organisations and institutions, fostering good neighbourly relations, economic co-operation and integration are the only way to help the international community solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija. The government of the People's Unity, with measures taken so far, will continue to act in a direction that would achieve its goal, preserves Serbia and Yugoslavia's integrity, paves the way for dialogue and makes solutions that will mean equality for everyone in Kosovo and Metohija. Albanian separatistism and terrorism have been condemned by their countrymen. By handing over weapons and returning to their homes, from which terrorists forced them out and mobilized them, they have confirmed that they do not accept secession policy, that Serbia is considered their country and that they want to live and seek solutions to all their problems. The process should mark the end of the behaviour of a political and national establishment of Albanian separatists, which was formed by existential, rich and politically rising in divisions. Such a policy, this small circle, has brought privileges and wealth, and Albanians are in misery, lagging behind, suffering for unreal and unfulfilled goals. Serbia and Serbs as a people have confirmed that they can also want to live with others and guarantee them all rights that will protect their national specialities: language, letter, tradition, culture, customs, anything that would preserve and strengthen their national identity. The problems that exist in the realisation of these rights do not mean that we will tolerate terrorism, agree to secession of Serbia or reduce the rights of national minorities. Serbia will continue to do so. What we have shown concretely and efficiently has encouraged many to support us in this policy. I call on Albanians, Serbs, Montenegrins, Muslims, Turks, Roma, all who live in Cosmet to build and strengthen their trust in each other's relations in their villages, as neighbours. It's not gonna do anything on the side, not as good, honest and rational as they are themselves. Political parties, international organisations, the media, everyone else just needs to help. If this is previously considered necessary in Cosmet, it will be a lasting peace. Serbia has always made rules, right and will make a clear distinction between Albanians who consider Serbia their country and separatists and terrorists. Dear People's MPs, from this place I would like to announce that with today's day, the destruction and arrest of remaining terrorist gangs in the area of Bajgor, Cicavica and Lake Mountain, armed terrorist groups have been defeated. With today's day, anti-terrorist facts have ended. It can only be restored if some new bandit-terrorist activity appears. These created the conditions to "to the extent that terrorist activities of security forces are stopped will reduce their presence outside of its permanent base" in accordance with the agreement of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia President Slobodan Milosevic and Russian Federation President Boris Jeljecin, reducing the engagement of anti-terrorist forces. The forces that will be diminished will be on their stand-by bases for a certain time, in case a terrorist organisation is restored to any part of the territory in Kosovo and Metohija. This is the moment that the state, in the interest of permanent normalisation and the overall calming of tensions in part of its territory, invites all those who possess weapons to hand it over to the authorities. All those who do so within ten days, unless they personally committed a crime, will be amnesty. All those who disobey this appeal and the good will of the state should be aware that they will bear all the consequences of criminal behavior. We are aware that there are still individuals and hidden groups who can kill someone from an ambush. That is why we will be on constant alert, as long as such criminal and headless behaviour poses a danger to the safety of citizens in any part of Kosovo and Metohija. That's why I'm ordering all those who, after all this, will try to prove their existence with murder, kidnapping, crime and any other terrorist act, that we will be ruthless to such. We expect Albanian intellectuals, politicians, prominent citizens to help, to draw out a clear message from recent months that problems in Kosovo and Metohija can only be resolved by political means, in a peaceful manner and by applying the principles that we have set out. As for the latest Security Council Resolution, we think that the Council has seriously underestimated the problem of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija as the main cause of the problem and as a major obstacle to the resuscitation and continuation of the political process, which through dialogue will provide lasting and democratic solutions for all those living in Kosovo and Metohija. We are also defined for maximum co-operation and co-operation with the international community in the interests of peace and security in the Balkans and the southeast of Europe. No one, no neighbouring country, is threatened by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's what we're confirming today. We're dismissing the charges of repressive measures against civilians, because that's simply not true. The measures were taken towards terrorists, not civilians. The police were protecting civilians who were being threatened by terrorists. Terrorists committed terrible crimes in Kosovo and Metohija, and these crimes were not involving Albanians as a collectiveity, but as individuals, their groups and criminal gangs, so that responsibility was launched and acted on certain perpetrators. When he insists on dialogue, at least when it comes to us, the Security Council knocks on the open door. Once again, we confirm our firm commitment to dialogue as the only way and a lasting and political solution. Dear MPs, I assure Albanians who have been forced by terrorists, who have now returned to their villages, that they have full protection and support from Serbia. To Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, Turks, Roma, Muslims and all those living in Kosovo, I say that the country with full powers will continue to protect this part of the territory as well as every other part of its territory and ensure peace, security and equality for all. I am telling everyone that terrorism cannot improve or achieve any rights and I urge them again to sit down and talk to the state delegation of Serbia. Dear President, honourable MPs, I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopt today: 1st conclusions which are a platform for peaceful, political and democratic, permanent problem-solving in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the normalisation of the overall situation in this province; 2nd decision on the education of the interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija, with the aim not to prejudge the political solution, and to strengthen the work of civilian structures, as this is particularly necessary today in Cosmet; 3rd decision on the appointment of the President of the Temporary Executive Council to proceed immediately with the work to address people's life problems. By adopting these decisions, the National Assembly as the Supreme Legislative Body will confirm the unique expectation of Serbian citizens to insist on the determined defence of territorial integrity and sovereignty, the equality of all citizens and the direction of development and the future. This is what today will mark the turning point. The government of the People's Unity won't regret the effort to achieve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u777	I thank the Prime Minister. We heard an exhibition submitted by Mirko Marjanovic, president of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a unique search. Do any of the MPs want a word? There is a word from MP Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u778	Dear President, distinguished fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia fully supports the Serbian Prime Minister's statement on the taken security, social and economic measures to stabilise the opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija and the proposal for conclusions, whose importance and importance we point out in particular, because they confirm Serbia's principled position that problems are solved by political means, peaceful means, dialogue, in a way that safeguards Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, national equality, the achievement of human, civil and national communities' rights according to the highest standards. There are no and there can be no solutions in Kosovo and Metohija beyond these principles, only they are just, lasting, human and democratic, because they place all citizens, national minorities and ethnic groups living in this province in an equal position. This approach by Serbia to address problems in Kosovo and Metohija is essential and is fundamentally sincere, as it prevents any form of discrimination on any basis and opens the perspective for political stability and strengthening tolerance, mutual trust and economic development. Serbia is a multiethnic and multiconfession community. The constitution was built as a civil state. In Serbia, all its citizens are equal and equal. On these principles, Serbia is unique, indivisible and there is full agreement between democratic, patriotic and human forces in our society. Equality and equality are not just constitutional and political declarations. For decades, they have been founded on a successful practice that preserves and promotes the specificities of national communities. The proof of this is their existence, development, numerous schools, lists, various radios and TV stations, cultural and artistic societies, links with their countries of origin. The terrorist gangs of Albanian separatists tried to threaten these foundations, civil and national equality. Instead of national equality, Albanian separatists offer discrimination, national degradation, self-insulation, only to achieve their goal, some kind of large Albania, which would emerge by cleaving Serbia's territory, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and other neighbouring states. The goal was tried to achieve the first -- systematic terror and banishment of Serbs, Montenegrins, violent Albanianisation of Muslims, Turks, Roma and all others living there, terror and over Albanians themselves who do not accept that policy. Then, by ethnic cleansing, they create a homogeneous, closed Albanian community. They pushed their countrymen into isolation, prohibiting them from using rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, encouraging them to smuggle drugs and weapons, imposing some taxes, taxes, open kidnapping and robbery, to support a narrow group of political and religious, nationalism and secession dedicated fanatics. In the end, they tried terror, robbery, kidnapping, rape, burning, destruction, killing civilians, security forces, citizens of all nationalities and thus showed their genocide. Serbia has eliminated this evil in Kosovo and Metohija. The terrorist gangs have been destroyed, and the members of the MUP and the Yugoslav Army in the protection of the state border, professionally, in accordance with the norms, with great sacrifice, have broken down terrorist gangs and foiled their intentions, to tear our country apart and abuse our citizens. Serbia is grateful for defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty and equality of all citizens. Serbia has not used large or small, or excessive force to deal with terrorists. She used force to the extent needed to curb the evil of terrorists, the general civil international evil, in the way other modern democratic states in the world are doing that face terrorism. Serbia will also continue to treat those who try to endanger its vital interests and survival. The collapse of terrorist gangs, defeating violent, secessionist policies, is the defeat of all those who have helped them, military, material and political. Human, civil and minority rights, nowhere and never in the world can and will be achieved by sowing terror, hatred and extremism. The defeat of Albanian terrorists best showed the correctness of Serbia's principled stance to deal with problems in Kosovo through peaceful dialogue. Representatives of Albanians who have refused dialogue, for which we have always, as we are ready today, who have not condemned the terrorists of the resolutions they have committed, as well as all of them, from some countries and international organisations to the media, who have supported and advised them, bear some responsibility for the crimes of terrorist gangs in Cosmet. Serbia has always made rules and will make a difference between Albanians who regard Serbia as their own country and who together and equally wish to achieve personal and family interests, from terrorists, secessionists and criminals. First, Serbia guarantees security, peace, top standards, which protect and improve - language, letter, culture, religion, tradition, customs and other national personalities. Others, as criminals, will punish by law. The fact that Albanians, who have violently mobilized and driven out of their homes, mass return to their villages, surrender their weapons and return to life and peace, best confirms the failure of terrorist and secessionist goals and trust in the state, security, rights and protection that Serbia guarantees and provides. The great sacrifice, nobility and humanity of citizens throughout Serbia provides great material assistance to rebuild their houses destroyed in terrorist actions. The so-called humanitarian disaster was invented by the strategists of breaking Serbia as one of the new hypocritical and false arguments for pressures on our country. In this humanitarian, directed, care is highlighted by those who served as a base for training terrorists, who based their attitudes and grades on fraud, false refugees, false asylum seekers, naively directed television plays, which are true only for those who organize them. Their concern for humanitarian issues is particularly cynical if it is known that they have not accepted the proposal to open permanent offices of humanitarian character. They didn't accept it, because performances, like the ones in Resnik, can't permanently organize. While the nobility and solidarity of all citizens - there will be no humanitarian problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Everything in our country, including Kosovo and Metohija, has been built by our people, and they will destroy and rebuild everything terrorists have destroyed. Serbia's determination to break terrorists without compromise does not change our principled stance on resolving issues in Kosovo and Metohija. On the contrary, we remain consistent that the problems in Kosovo and Metohija are being tackled by political means, by dialogue between the state delegation, by representatives of Albanians and all ethnic groups living in this province. That concept has no alternative. Cosmet is rich, large, natural, economic, energy, human and cultural, it has places for Albanians, Serbs, Montenegrins, Muslims, Roma and all others who want to be citizens of Serbia, who are not terrorists, who want to tolerate, mutual understanding and co-operation to build for themselves and their families the future through faster development on the advantages of Kosovo and Metohija's economic and natural wealth. Dear MPs, Serbia, because of its policy and efforts to remain a civil state, with full respect for national equality and because it is uncompromisingly and firmly defending its territory and sovereignty, suffers great pressures. It is difficult in history to find a similar period and a country that has been exposed to such pressures and threats simply because it defends itself from evil and that others want to ban it from defending itself from this evil. Serbia simply has one answer to these pressures, which is to insist on a policy that will preserve the country and people and values that are its essence - freedom, independence, equality, dignity, openness. Folding weapons, threats of force, ultimatums - is a scenario that we have seen in the politics and approach of powerful men who want to destabilise the Balkans to realize their interests. This has brought great misfortune, suffering and suffering to the people of this region. All those who see it in the international community and remain silent and blind, who do not raise their voice against new imperialism and hegemonism in international relations should know that the recipe they think will apply in Kosovo and Metohija tomorrow, if it suits someone, can also be applied in their countries. That road won't work. The solution can only bring full activation of our country's membership rights in international organisations and institutions, rejection of double standards policy, condemnation of terrorism, support for peace forces, national equality, tolerance and good neighbourly relations in the region. The Socialist Party of Serbia in the National Assembly, in the government of the People's Unity, will continue to insist in the bodies of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that political means, dialogue, with full national equality, solve all problems in Kosovo and Metohija and join the invitations of Albanian political representatives to start talks with the state delegation. Talks can bring lasting, fair and democratic solutions. Terror, violence and pressure cannot bring good to anyone, and at least to Albanians. Dear President, honourable MPs, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted eight years ago today. With this constitution and its principles today, Serbia is democratically defending stability and unity in the interest of its survival, freedom, independence and development, in the interest of all national communities and all citizens of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u779	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u780	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party MP club is completely behind the conclusions that are proposed and behind the principles that arise from these conclusions. The Serbian Radical Party also believes that only political means and dialogue can solve problems that broke out in Kosovo, caused by Albanian separatism. We also believe that all solutions must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and international standards in the field of protection of human and civil rights. The equality of all citizens and all national communities and ethnic groups in Kosovo and Metohija must be protected, which the Republic of Serbia has done so far. But we also ask all those who expect Serbia to solve Kosovo and Metohija's problem according to their demands to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. If the leaders of the Albanian separatist movement in Kosovo respected these principles, there would be no terrorism, there would be no escalation and conflict, we would have been at a further stage of negotiations on resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija and the terrorist movement would not have developed as the peak of the separatists of Albanians in Kosovo. But we cannot expect Albanian separatists and terrorist gang leaders to respect these principles because they simply want to create their own independent state. But we can expect from representatives of the so-called. international communities, from international forums, from major Western powers, which on these principles insist on accusing the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia of violating the national rights of Albanians, of disobeying minority rights, of jeopardising civilians. We can expect them to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. By contrast, the United Nations mechanisms, primarily the Security Council, are being misused that the Republic of Serbia is trying through the government of the Republic of Serbia to start a dialogue with the political representatives of the Albanian national minority, and they are persistently refusing even to respond to the call, and rather than condemning those political representatives of the Albanian national minority, the Republic of Serbia is condemning Serbia for not starting the dialogue. Obviously, we are faced with double standards, with the will of the international community to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue in a way that corresponds to Albanian separatists, or terrorist group leaders. At the very least, and if we know what the will is and what the intention of the international community is, we expected at least to condemn the apparent genocide that was being carried out over the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija, even if it were to condemn the methods used by the Cypriot terrorists. Everyone was convinced of the existence of a crematorium in the village of Klecka, the mass shooting of captive civilians, but we didn't even hear a voice of condemnation of such behaviour. If by any chance it had happened vice versa, I think the international community's reaction would have been incomparably more severe than it is today towards the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija has emerged as a logical consequence of long-standing separatism whose leaders today were political representatives of Kosovo Albanians. Terrorism appeared this year, when it was certain that their separatist movement enjoyed certain support from some powerful Western states, those countries most called for democracy. By their terrorism, they tried to extort military intervention first and foremost. They had several possible variants of their armed rebellion, or armed attacks against representatives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. They thought first of all, if the armed action was successful, that it would change primarily the practical situation on the ground, that the state of Serbia would not control much of its territory, and then, as defeated in that practical state, it would be forced to make much more concessions than it was prepared to give at the very beginning. On the other hand, if it goes badly, they expected the military action, that action by the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia would, above all, be such that a large number of civilians would suffer in all of this, and then cause a fierce reaction from the international community. And, parallel to that, they were constantly testing the readiness of the Yugoslav army, trying to transfer large quantities of weapons from Albania to Serbia. However, the plan has completely failed. Civilian victims were almost never there, except in those cases where terrorists themselves used villages as fortifications and did not allow civilians to leave that village during the actions of members of the MUP. On the other hand, all acts of terrorist gangs have completely failed, all their groups, and larger and smaller, have been destroyed, a number of terrorist organisation members have been arrested, many members of the Albanian national minority, who disagreed with such methods of achieving their political goals, have returned their weapons to the MUP. As we heard today, the actions of the anti-terrorism units of the Republic of Serbia are over, terrorism is definitely defeated. What remains for Albanians is now to accept dialogue with the state representatives of the Republic of Serbia and try to find solutions they have been looking for for for several years in the framework of the dialogue. What the Serbian Radical Party will never step down from is that the Kosovo and Metohija problem is being solved exclusively within the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija can never be singled out from the Republic of Serbia and treated in some other way. All other solutions, all solutions reached within the Republic of Serbia, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, are absolutely possible and allowed, and we need to discuss this. If Albanians want to regulate the issue of health, education, social security, pensions and other areas, then they can handle it themselves, but can't expect to get statehood attributes more automatically, in particular, to get a republic, which would be an integral part, some new federal unit, so that in the future they can count, possibly, on secession. Today, we want to prevent Albanians from having the possibility of legal secession from Serbia, or the SRJ, over a few years. We are ready for broad autonomy, for broad protection of the minority rights of Albanians and of all other national minorities, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but throughout Serbia. The only thing we're not ready for is to allow them to secede and take part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia with them. Today, we do not even want to mention how important Kosovo and Metohija are for Serbs, and how much Kosovo and Metohija have been an inspiration for many generations, which have fought for Serbia's freedom. It's enough to say that it's state territory and that the people who give part of their territory to someone else don't deserve to have a country at all. We're aware enough of how difficult we are today, reading that so-called. The international community stands behind Albanians, but simply, the arguments are in our hands and the unity that exists today on the internal political scene of Serbia is sufficient guarantee that we will succeed in bringing this business together to an end, so that Kosovo and Metohija definitely remain within Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u781	I thank He has the floor of MP Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u782	Mr. President, gentlemen of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Renewal Movement is the opposition to the government and the government's majority in this parliament, but the topic we are considering today is not in the field of position and opposition relations. The defence of Kosovo and Metohija and the defence of our state against major Albanian terrorism are equal to the duty and obligations of all of us in this assembly, all political parties and all citizens in Serbia-Montenegro. The Serbian Renewal Movement emphasises that we all face difficult days and many temptations and challenges. We must not fool ourselves, nor our people and citizens, the stories that Albanian terrorists are broken and that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija will quickly and easily be normalised. We are facing a political demand from Kosovo Albanian leadership to create an independent state of Kosovo and a large Albania in the Balkans. These demands lead to terrorism, and until we defeat this project of breaking Serbia, we will not defeat terrorism either. It is not a job that will last a few weeks or months, but much longer, and it requires a clear and determined state strategy. In the name of the Serbian Renewal Movement, I will present ongoing thesis for this state policy in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, Serbia must guarantee the rights of Albanians in line with the highest democratic standards. As the US applies to the world's champion of democracy, the Serbian Renewal Movement is for Serbia to be set up against Albanians in Serbia, as well as other national communities, in accordance with the principles and rules of American democracy. What does that mean specifically -- all citizens of the United States, regardless of their national background, religion or race, are equal in rights, but they are equal in obligations to the American state. It is unimaginable that an ethnic or racial community in the United States refuses to pay taxes, communals, or refuse service in the military. Let us apply these American principles to Cosmet, resolutely and on behalf of the highest democratic standards. It is absolutely forbidden and most severely punishable that some ethnic, religious or racial community of the United States goes into secession from that state, or the creation of a special American state on a national, religious or racial basis. America does not allow a thimf of Nazi and racist principles and considers them to be the right anti-democratic anti-civilization principles. What can't be done in America can't be done in Serbia either. We must make it clear to Albanians that the Albanian states in Serbia have never been and will never be. Albanians who accept Serbia as their country will enjoy Serbia as much as anyone, both civil, cultural, and religious rights. In rights, but also in obligations to the state, they will be leveled with Serbs and all others. Those Albanians who do not recognise Serbia for their country, but are fighting for the Albanian state, we are obliged to help them go to Albania, that is their choice. We will not look into any souls and dreams, but all Albanians must respect the state of Serbia and must not use weapons or political programmes to attack or dispute the state of Serbia if they wish to live in it. The SPO believes that any action against state sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija must also take away Serbia's citizenship, with all the consequences that the act is taking. All of this is in line with the principles of American democracy, i.e. with the world's highest democratic standards. There is no Serbian church in the U.S., and there is no flag of the United States as a symbol of the state on it next to our national trio. Under the same criteria at Albanian schools, universities or mosques in Cosmet, it would be mandatory to stand alongside the Albanian flag of Serbia. In short, the Serbian people will not have any right to build on the wrongs of Albanians and all of them, who accept the state of Serbia, we are obliged to guarantee all and general and special and individual and collective rights. The collapse of a country anywhere in the world is not recognised as democratic law, so it cannot be recognised to Albanians in Serbia either. What else do we have to do? We are obliged to stop the outflow of Serbs from Cosmet and to encourage a return to that heat of our country and the nation as many Serbs as possible, who have moved out for decades after World War II, and during World War II, because of Albanian crimes and terror of the Albanian idea of ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Kosovo. Let's introduce Europe and the world to the truth that since 1941, more than 400,000 Serbs have been exiled from Kosovo and that nearly 300,000 Albanians from Albania have been criminally populated in Kosovo. In Washington, Moscow, Paris, London and Rome, they must learn that, for example, in Serbian in 1941, only Serbs lived in that Serbian, that in 1960. Serbs account for over 80% of the population, and today the Serb is practically without Serbs. We are obliged to return Serbs to Serbia and everywhere, from where they were driven by the two-headed eagles of the great Albania. Ethnic cleansing is a crime against humanity and this crime never goes out of date and can never be legalized. The SPO, however, points out that we cannot keep Serbs in Cosmet or return Serbs to Cosmet. A state programme and determination in the application of this programme are needed. Full employment, housing and material security must be the basis of this programme. Kosovo is the historic, religious, spiritual and numerous Jerusalem Serbs of all Serbs in the world, and it is also the obligation of Serbia and all Serbs in the world to establish and strengthen their Jerusalem. There's no greater than that obligation today, no more than there is an obstacle. The Serbian Renewal Movement expressed gratitude to our people, who survived in Kosovo and Metohija, despite the terror and crimes of the Albanian ideology and despite the decades-long disgraced relationship between the regime in Serbia and their torments. Among the tens of thousands of magnificent houses in Cosmet, rarely belonging to Serbs. Unemployment is huge, they pay, where they are, miserable, and when night falls, with anxiety awaits the dawn. However, they did not move, and the first recently stepped on the bumper of their houses and villages, the Serbian bumper. Many died fighting terrorists, many kidnapped and beastly tortured and massacred. Among them, however, there is not one who has strayed from faith and spirit. They have defended Serbia and Serbia as a whole is a major debtor to those border guards. We also owe great gratitude to all our members of our national defense forces. We'll commit an unforgivable sin, if any family of dead officers or soldiers remain materially or residentially at risk. The state strategy, advocated by the Serbian Renewal Movement, includes the country's special attitude towards those who go first to the front of the state's defence. In such a reception situation, and most of these young people are tenants, let's introduce a binding rule that those who are first in Serbia's defence must be paid and respected accordingly by their country. If we can't learn from ourselves, we learn from others. We are in a similar situation to the target of a similar enemy like Israel, so to the State, we place ourselves in defense of her and her defenders as the Jewish state does. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u783	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milan Rodic, head of the Yugoslav left's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u784	Dear President, the Presidency, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister, members of the government, the proposed conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the security, social and economic situation in Kosovo and Metohija, according to the Yugoslav Left Parliamentary Club, represent an objective determination of the problem and a real basis for their overcoming, for the defence of peace and territorial integrity of the Republic. The proposals are consistent with constitutional solutions, international standards and full citizens' principles. The Yugoslav left is convinced that the assembly will show its full determination to curb destructive policy, expressed in separatistism and terrorism by Albanian nationalists and their supporters. The demand of citizens, the requirement of the future and the request of the left is an urgent overcoming the threatening dangers of widespread terrorism and violence in Kosovo and Metohija. We are looking for an urgent establishment of basic assumptions for the restoration and development, the establishment of trust and security of all loyal citizens. Separatism and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija endanger all rights, the right to work, the right to education, objective information, the preservation and development of national identity and above all the right to life. For the Yugoslav Left, there is no doubt about the nature and character of Albanian terrorism and separatism. Any delay in solving this unbearable problem makes it even more difficult. That is why we believe that the first-class task of the Assembly is to ensure, in accordance with its competences, effective mechanisms to protect the territorial integrity of the Republic and ensure conditions for the normalisation of life and work of all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Since its establishment, the Yugoslav Left has indicated the perilousness of the national-civilists' efforts to solve international relations by ethnically cleaning their territories. The decomposition of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, which culminated in the crimes of the Nazi fascist character, is not a whim of history, nor its chaotic flow, but a crime against humanity and an attack on the sovereignty and integrity of our country, whose carriers are not unknown. Serbia and Yugoslavia are committed to cutting down terrorism and ensuring consistent application of the laws and conditions for the safe life of all citizens. No one is protected from the hopelessness that stems from terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. In the world, it is not a controversial assessment of the dangers of a monster, called terrorism, but when it happened in Kosovo and Metohija, principledness places a place of egoism, hypocrisy, selectivity. For every objective consideration of the real role of individual members of the international community in Kosovo and Metohija, it is clear that they do not defend peace, nor do they want to prevent so-called. A humanitarian disaster, they already want to expand the limits of their own influence. To these purposes, huge funds and energy have been hired, to calculate that at the cost of living manipulated and foreign interests of sub-warranted Kosovo Albanians have secured influence and presence in these areas, which has not yet been their hand. That's why so many big lies and violence in the form of falsifying elementary facts and in vain encouraging terrorists. It is a great hypocrisy and a hoax to the international legal order when it marks equality between terrorism, on the one hand, and the country's defence law, on the other hand. This is what extreme terrorist organisations want to recognise political subjectivity and partnership. The bitterness of the defeat of terrorists won't allow their concubines to replace the punishment, threats and blackmail of Serbia-Yugoslavia. We are not unaware of the tendencies of the raped and the powerful to turn the disobedient and the disobedient into blood and ashes so that immediately, beyond that, they appear in the image of God - fearing humanitarians. The delusion of self-reliance forces to launch a spiral of terrorism provides for presence and influence in certain regions is a civilization's solar system and a risk of starting the next century as a century of barbarism. Serbian citizens did not accept interference in internal affairs, did not accept the important role, nor did Kosovo and Metohija become the command post of foreign armed forces. Albanian terrorists, empowered by various commandos, mujahedins and other dogs of war, represent a criminal expedition to Albanians loyal to their republic, Serbia and Yugoslavia. The state is obliged to provide all loyal citizens with full protection, and to create conditions for a safe return to the homes of all citizens who have been forced by terrorists to serve as a tool for a demonstration of God’s humanitarian disaster. There are no small and large peoples for the Yugoslav Left. There are equal citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, there are equal rights and freedoms of all citizens, freedom of expression of legitimate interests, political pluralism and social tolerance, there is a determination to curb any discrimination through laws and other legitimate means, including national ones. Dear People's MPs, we are convinced that citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia today are with the National Assembly of Serbia, expecting a clear word of condemnation of terrorism and separatism, endangering the integrity of Serbia and Yugoslavia, applying criminal measures against our country and supporting terrorism, as well as condemnation of media and other manipulations. The determination to build an independent and stable community of equal citizens is at risk of the will of certain international factors, encouraged terrorism and other facilities in the country, being reduced to a choice between a vassal role or giving in front of violence of Albanian terrorism. Hence today, this congregation faces a major political, moral, patriotic and civilizational challenge to express its relations to the unity and independence of the state community. The Yugoslav left in its name contains a formula for relations with the national, social and state issues. We have no national prejudices, but it is clear that, by defending Kosovo and Metohija, we defend our integrity, we defend man, we defend ourselves and our future. With criminals, terrorists, chauvinists and freaks, there is no life in common. Dear People's MPs, there are times when there is a need to increase inter-party disputes and misunderstandings, when it is necessary to mobilise all the defence forces of community and solidarity. I am convinced that today we need unreserved consent and support for the proposed conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u785	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zarko Jokanovic, head of the National Democracy Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u786	President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy, as a democratic and patriotic political party, accepts the conclusions and proposals proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, believing that now it is time to put aside all the mutual interests and impatience. At this point, difficult for our country and people, we do not have the right to party bickering, but we are responsible for quality solutions that will best protect both national and national interests. On behalf of New Democracy, I want to express my pain and regret for the loss of the lives of innocent civilians, members of the Serbian and Yugoslav Interior Ministry, and I give their families the expressions of my sincerest condolences. At the same time, we express our indignation and indignation over the crimes committed and the existence of mass graves. The new democracy expressed its gratitude to members of the military and police who honorably and professionally defended the state border, sovereignty and integrity of our country. The fight against terrorism is a struggle for fundamental democratic values, it is a struggle for peace and full freedom for every single individual, and no one can dispute that struggle with normal, reasonable and well-meaning. The solution to the Kosovo problem of New Democracy, as it has repeated countless times, is seen only in peaceful and political means, with the urgent launch of dialogue, unconditional dialogue, and the immediate end of all armed conflicts and people's deaths. We have long pointed to the weight of the problem and suggested that we open this issue ourselves and offer a lasting solution. Unfortunately, the situation has escalated to such an extent that peace and security of the entire region are at stake. It is our obligation not to submit to any kind of euphoria, emotion and myth, and to come rationally and responsibly to a solution that will lead to the end of the conflict, with the full preservation of the territorial integrity and the state sovereignty of Serbia and Yugoslavia, and this, perhaps in the best way, is the conclusion that we will adopt today. The new democracy believes that the competent state authorities must do everything in their power not to reach Serbia's military intervention and bombing. This is a real danger, and with this in particular, I would like to stress that New Democracy is a European-oriented party which believes that many problems, including Kosovo, can and must be solved precisely in co-operation with the world. That's why, perhaps, we, the new Democrats, are most called upon to strongly condemn every kind of threat by force, and this latest one, which comes from the militant circles of the international community. We condemn the most vigorously announced threats by bombing our country, because it would be a crime and, in no way, solve the problem, but multiply accidents and casualties, and that would just lead to humanitarian disasters being said in the West, and would strengthen Albanian extremism in both Kosovo and Albania and seriously endanger peace in the region. Out of mind is the claim of individual influential circles in the West that this will speed up negotiations. It is not necessary to put pressure on the Serbian side to start negotiations, but on the Albanian side that insists on delaying them and calling for military intervention not because of humanitarian issues, as they represent, but rather for the sake of greater chances, as they think, of achieving their extreme separatist goals. But I think that game is transparent and it can't work. A new democracy suggests to the Serbian government that, in line with today's conclusions, it urgently drafts a concrete proposal for a solution to the Kosovo problem behind which our country stands, to operationalise and implement without delay what we have concluded today, and informs the foreign and domestic public effectively and day-to-day. The principles for resolving the Kosovo issue are clear. They were constantly motivated by New Democracy. These are: the immediate end of conflict, the solution to the problem exclusively by political means and dialogue, which must begin urgently, the irreversibility of borders and the preservation of territorial integrity and sovereignty, the equality of citizens, national communities and ethnic groups, broad autonomy and respect for the principles of the United Nations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. The new democracy believes that these views are just embedded in the draft conclusions that today should be adopted by our assembly, so that is a very important reason for our determination to just vote for these conclusions, which are proposed. We appeal to Albanians in Kosovo that, on behalf of the common future, the common path to European integration, give up maximumist demands on the secession line, condemn terrorism and crimes committed and require their political leaders to start dialogue on behalf of peace and find solutions that will be acceptable to all citizens of Kosovo and the state of Serbia in general. Specially important measures are to establish a breach of trust and return of all emigrants to their homes, with the full guarantee of the state for their safety and to prevent extremists from returning to their homes. State aid is needed in the reconstruction of ruined houses, the abolization for all those who have not committed crimes, the resolution of every single humanitarian problem in co-operation with international humanitarian organisations, the normalisation of education, the work of health services, supplies, etc., the formation of mixed Serbian-Albanian commissions that would deal with all aspects of normalisation of life in Kosovo, and we believe that this will be the priorities of the interim executive council that I believe today will adopt this assembly. We particularly welcome Mr. Prime Minister's statement, which announced the decision to fully honour the agreement between President Milosevic and Jelicin, and we believe that this will eliminate all and many difficulties in starting the dialogue as much as possible. The new democracy advocates that judicial authorities speed up the proceedings and in accordance with the law, punish all those who committed crimes, as well as all organisers and contractors of terrorist activities. It is also necessary, in accordance with the law, to judge any individual who has misused official powers in relation to the abuse of civilians or the destruction of property, if any. A new democracy believes that the state of Serbia has nothing to hide in Kosovo, that it is clear that terrorism in Kosovo is a function of separatism and violent border change, which is unacceptable to the modern world. That is why New Democracy advocates that as many foreign diplomats and observers as possible, and this has been the case so far, a direct insight into the real state of things in Kosovo. The country's co-operation with international organisations is also commendable and should continue. There is no reason not to accept those good services of the international community that are on the line of a fair solution to the problem and which do not endanger the interests of our country and our people. The only solution for both Serbs and Albanians is peace, agreement and a common path to European integration. It is the only solution for the entire Balkan region. That is why for New Democracy it is of particular importance that this assembly will adopt, which speaks of Serbia's commitment to actively participate in contemporary European and world integration, economic, political, cultural and other processes within Yugoslavia. This is the policy that the New Democracy has been representing since the beginning and is looking forward to becoming the official commitment of the government and the Assembly, but it is necessary to specify it. In order for this job to be easier, I will attach two New Democracy documents and ask to enter the minutes of this session, a new democratic project of a settlement of the Serbian-Albanian dispute from 07 April 1997 and the principles of Serbian national politics in the new historical circumstances, adopted by the New Democracy presidency on 10 July this year. Convinced that the time is coming for tolerance, the time of solution, the quality of common life that is possible, co-operation and dialogue, New Democracy calls on all citizens of this country to free everyone from hate, intolerance and prejudice, to live to build on civilization values, not to wage war over the goals of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u787	Thank you. There is a word from MP Joseph Kasa, head of the parliamentary club of the Duke Hungarian Union.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u788	Dear President, Your Honor, Prime Minister, in my presentation, I will most likely not say anything new today, and I will not deviate from the many known views of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, which we have expressed in recent times regarding the Kosovo problem. First of all, I have to say, in some things we can agree on certain findings and certain conclusions. However, there are different views, different views, most likely due to different assessments and estimates of the sources of information and the treatment of such information we have. However, it is essential that all peoples in the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Yugoslavia, must find a common language in the same borders, in the same country. That's what we've always represented both loud and clear. That applies to the majority of the people. 65% of these republics live have ethnic communities that have 1/3 of the population. It's important that we don't try, especially we don't apply force to retraining each other. Serbs must remain Serbs and should remain Serbs, and allow the Hungarians to remain with all their differences, with which they both rise, in culture, in language, in religion, and in all other ethnicities. We cannot agree that the government has done everything to solve this problem, and above all, we do not agree that it did not take measures in time to prevent the escalation of the problem to this level that we are at, or that we have reached. It's not yesterday's problem. It's been going on for years, maybe more than a dozen years. Why was it necessary for the police to apply this kind of force today, when more could have been done years ago to prevent the introduction of weapons, to prevent terrorism and banditism on that ground? That police, our state-owned police, were present in increased composition and in earlier years, at least by estimating from the budget items, which we voted here together. What were they doing there? Why did they let such banditism and terrorism happen? Why state terrorism was applied in this sense, when it could have been avoided long ago. I'm sure the government, perhaps not this one, but earlier governments, had in time taken steps to escalate this conflict would not have occurred, to this extent. Surely there would be no such deep hatred among the inhabitants of one area, which can be seen, read from the press and the media, and also from MP groups where I am present, because there is deep hatred for everything that is not Serbian. Gentlemen who represent, I believe, are threatened Serbs in Kosovo, who represent this animal on these committees and do not notice what hate they are talking about all the problems, which other ethnic communities may have. I would also like to say that the solution to ethnic problems needs to be done towards all ethnic communities in Serbia. It is not only an Albanian issue that is open, although it is the most difficult, but besides the open Albanian issue, many other issues that are present in the ethnic communities' problems have been opened. It should not always be stressed that in Serbia and Yugoslavia, all issues are settled according to the highest European and world standards, and we ignore the everyday present problems affecting individual ethnic continents. When the Union of Duchy Hungarians seeks a solution for the duchy Hungarians, it simultaneously seeks out for all ethnic communities, for all animals in Serbia and Yugoslavia. We're not asking for any exception, we're only asking for the respect of the Constitution, not on paper, but in reality, because really, according to the Constitution, we all have the same rights, and the same obligations. However, we who live in the field and face daily problems know how these constitutional obligations are carried out. The ethnic cleaners, which are today condemned here in Kosovo, are equally applied in Vojvodina, only on the other hand. Ethnic cleanups have also been carried out in all state authorities, police, customs, judiciary, school, everywhere. Please take this information and you can estimate what's going on on the database. It's a practice. Not to tighten the issue of Kosovo today, the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians will in any case support such conclusions "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirms the decisive decision of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and all authorities in the Republic, to ensure that Kosovo and Metohija, as well as everywhere in Serbia, respect for the law, full equality, peaceful and secure life of all citizens regardless of their national and religious membership." I would only ask in the next position of national personality, such as language, letter, tradition, culture and customs, to add "faith". It's different in this country. Otherwise, I am particularly pleased that it is finally in the 12th item, put on paper that as a method of resolving the crisis in Kosovo can be political means and dialogue, as the only time for a peaceful and democratic solution to problems in Kosovo and Metohija, because we have always represented this position. Respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and the SRJ, which is always claimed by the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Duchy Hungarians that this is the only way to be, and solutions consistent with the constitutions of Serbia and the SRJ in international standards and in the fields of human and civil rights and rights of members of national minorities, but not only declaratively, but also essentially and that all citizens, all national communities and ethnic groups in Kosovo and Metohija, without the possibility of majorisation, not only in Kosovo, but everywhere in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u789	There is a word from MP Nenad Canak, head of the parliamentary club of democratic parties. I ask the People's Messengers for silence.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u790	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, MPs, history didn't start yesterday and it won't end tomorrow. Nothing that happens now will ever be forgotten. Earlier generations have been trying to resolve a series of these issues that we're talking about today that didn't work out. I'm not even sure we'll find a solution, and you sure as hell won't. It's about something else. Today is the eighth anniversary of the adoption of the Serbian Constitution, which, I must remind, was the first entry into the constitutional system and the order of the SFRY. Serbia's constitution of eight years ago was the first secessionist constitution on the territory of the SFRY, and by disrespecting that constitution, the SFRY has opened the principle of stronger, the principle of violence that we are looking at today in Kosovo as well. If Serbia did not respect Yugoslavia, why would Kosovo respect Serbia. That's what this is all about right now. At that time, Kosovo is spoken of from the position of force and strength, as historic Serbian territory, which it certainly is, and Vojvodina is at the same time in the Serbian ethnic space, which it certainly is. But if they're not double standards, I don't know what double standards are. The question can also be asked tomorrow if the relationship of forces turns, which is why it would not be applied ethnically in Kosovo, and to Vojvodina's historic approach, and thus to get to the point that both Vojvodina and Kosovo are not in Serbia, if the relationship of forces turns. In March of this very month, I asked from the same phone booth to create a survey board to discuss the problems that were happening at the time in Drenica. You remember, there was a massacre over 42 civilians, so they passed on some media, and I'm not saying it's true, it's just so transmitted. However, at the same time that it was rejected, I have noted that there will be a series of problems to discuss. Today it's Klecka. Can I ask now to build a survey board to determine the true state of affairs, can I now ask to know what happened there? It must be noted that Mr. Prime Minister mentioned that children were burned there. I'm terrified of it, and that's why I'd be so glad to find out the name and name of that kid that was burned there. I must say, according to our knowledge, there are no children on the missing persons's lists. I would ask you to talk about it, by name and last name, that we don't fool ourselves anymore like there was a story of a type of propaganda - 40 babies in Vukovar strangled, like the story of children in Banja Luka, who died because there was no oxygen, which is all unverified untrue, lies that served for propaganda purposes. I have to note that the Committee on Defence and Security of this same assembly has not met during this year, and I am a member of that committee and I have not received a single call. I must note that after six months of no activity this assembly has had, and this government, there have been no solutions, nothing but bloodshed, where not only police officers, but recruits, are killed in the same Kosovo. So I'm asking you, if this is some kind of solution right now, it's temporarily executively larger, why it's temporary and why it's not declared a state of emergency, so that we know what we're on, but now we're making some half-deals that are the product of the settlements, which are the product of the agreement, in terms of retaining power, and hiding from the eyes of the citizens of this country's most important problem. It is a robbery that is currently under way, a robbery of state and social people's property, so-called privatisations, which no one pays attention to because of Kosovo's horrors at the moment. Just because nobody cares about it, doesn't care that you have a huge inflow of people in Kragujevac, there's the mayor of Kragujevac, let's say, a huge inflow of refugees from Kosovo, who are causing problems anyway to a difficult situation in that fallen industrial centre. Also, you are trying to convince us here that we are subsequently complicit in the failed policy in Kosovo, which caused it to be abolished 10 years ago, not only by the autonomy of Vojvodina, but also by the complete disintegration of the former country. That's exactly what this is about. In short, we have a simple situation to be surrounded by countries, Hungary and Albania, which on both sides of their borders have the same population. I won't bother you with the historical details, but I brought it to show you a map (keep it in your hands) of the Triannian Treaty. This black space here is what was stripped of Hungary when it lost the war. She lost half of her territory and a third of her population. That's exactly what's going to happen to this country if you keep taking her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u791	The word is by MP Vojislav Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u792	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, fellow MPs, last spring at Kosovo and Metohija's premises, saw an escalation of Albanian terrorism. By cutting off important communications, day-to-day actions on police patrols, kidnapping civilians and violent crimes against innocent civilians, terrorists tried to paralyze life in that part of the Republic of Serbia and challenge international forces' intervention. The force of police and military action has broken down terrorist gangs, roads have been unblocked, and that part of the territory is controlled by our security forces. At the last minute, the worst was prevented. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija have been preserved. The measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past few months to break up terrorist gangs of Albanian separatists have yielded extraordinary results. The terrorist core is broken, arms smuggling channels and strategic products have been cut. In Kosovo and Metohija, it must be said clearly, there are neither hungry nor thirsty nor those under the clear sky. All citizens, regardless of religion and nation, whose houses were killed by terrorist gangs, are placed safe. The government of the Republic of Serbia has provided sufficient quantities of all necessary food products, hygiene, medicines for all citizens regardless of national and religious membership. All manipulations over some humanitarian disaster in Kosovo and Metohija have one single goal, which is to encourage the forces of terrorism and separatism, and discourage forces that are for a peaceful and political solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija. Over the past few months, Serbia has been on the hardest test in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that we have passed this exam both as a state and as a people. Serbs and Montenegrins, as well as other decent citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, have shown a high degree of patriotism. We were truly afraid and afraid that the conflicts would trigger a river of emigrants, but that didn't happen. In the largest part of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, the consciousness of defending not only the past and the future of Serbia was overcome. The basic condition for the preservation of the country is the unity of the people. Serbs and Montenegrins from Kosovo and Metohija highly and sincerely appreciate solidarity, political and economic but above all worry and the sacrifice of central Serbian and Vojvodina citizens at the most difficult times for Kosovo and Metohija. Now the main question is - how do we proceed? We can't stop. We must preserve the unity of the people. We must develop and respect the political consensus of all patriotic forces in the country. It will help us to overcome all the trials we have been put on, and the ones that threaten us. At this point, the most important thing is to continue to eradicate terrorism. Despite international pressures, we must insist on the requirement that problems in Kosovo and Metohija can be resolved exclusively with respect to our Constitution. We must do everything to find a modus vivendi in Kosovo and Metohija, to open perspectives for all people who want to live in peace there. Our generation has a historical role to play, to solve the problem I've been having for centuries stretching and piling up. The Kosovo accident has given us the opportunity to definitely deal with Albanian separatism and terrorism and weapons, but also with the organisation of our country, wisdom and patriotism. The past events have shown that we have both strength and motive for it. These are major events and require great sacrifices and denials and do not allow improvisation. In doing so, we must make peace with the fact that for a long time at the premises of Kosovo and Metohija we will be forced to deal with Albanian terrorism and that we must endure. The condition that we welcome the future in Cosmet is, above all, the strengthening of the Serbian Corps, both in ethnic and economic terms. It is the main misery of Albanian separatistism. It is high time for Kosovo and Metohija to move into the process of settlement for Serbs, to provide real resources for this purpose and to establish such an ethnic balance as soon as possible. Serbs-Montenegrons in Kosovo and Metohija believe in their country. We are ready to live together with everyone in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, including Albanians. We want to live in peace, by all civilization norms. We are ready to build a better life from Kosovo's hots. In Kosovo and Metohija, there are places for all people of good faith, for all who consider this country their own. There is no place in Kosovo and Metohija and must not be for criminals and terrorists, those who have raised weapons to the state and its citizens. They must all be brought to justice and held accountable for the unremembered crimes committed against the innocent population. It's our country's duty and obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u793	Thank you. There's a word from MP Jorganka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u794	Dear fellow MPs, I'll only keep your attention for two things. By the participation of America in this crisis and of Resnik and their obvious relationship. Every century as if it follows a natural law, it elevates a state that has power, desire, intellectual and moral influence, to build an international system based on its own system of values. For the third time in this century, America has accepted the task of transferring its values exclusively to the whole world to build a whole new world order. During their history, the United States has applied two basic principles that are briefly referred to as the star leader and knight of the crusader. This first principle that is the best way for America to expand its values is to develop democracy in its own country and to serve as such as a leading star. The second principle of the Knight of the Baptist represents the attitude that these values should be extended to the world almost by force. Both schools come from a special American history and are convinced that the rest of the world can only live peacefully if it adopts this American understanding of justice and democracy. Since 1917, since she entered the international policy scene, America has rejected all European role models because its experiences are completely different. The American settlers, unlike us in Kosovo and Metohija, met an empty country between the two oceans. None of the neighbors had that amount of power that could limit America's influence. In his 14 points, statesman Woodrow Wilson told the Europeans at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919 that international order should be built on the self-determination of the people, not on the balance of forces. Today, the world faces a conflict that conflicts with the very two relevant KEBS principles on international order in Europe, which are the principle of non-violence against the right of the people to self-determination. In that conflict, we suffered yesterday through Drina, today trying to impose patience on us in Kosovo and Metohija. In this context, when US interests are redefined in the post-cold war era, the crisis in Yugoslavia becomes an important test on which the North Atlantic Pact should show how it can leave the current framework of action without leaving the historic scene. Today's NATO demonstration has a fantastic opportunity in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately confirmed in February 1994 by a staged conflict at the Markale market, which continued through various diplomatic and military activities, to a storm that is not under green but under yellow light, according to Christopher, ended with NATO aviation in Republika Srpska. The peak of the military intervention was only seemingly the use of cruise missiles "tomahuk", the political message was second and it was very clear -- NATO has definitely confirmed that it is ready primarily for peace-making operations. Serbian military defeats have caused a wave of enthusiasm in the US public, and in the media it remains almost undetected, their consequence is in fact ethnic cleansing and refugee several hundred thousand Serbs from Krajina and Western Bosnia. I hope no analogy will ever be applied from NATO to this silence of the media. However, faced with the inability of America to build this new world order lack of desire and power to withdraw from that role, it happens to us for this weekend Resnik, it's a village near the city where I was born, and where my parents live and close to which, 27 km, my family lives. Expecting a visit from Sadako Ogata, High Commissioner for Refugees, a farce that lasts, as they said in the Dnevnik, is directed exactly as long as there is an observer. The fictional number of people under the clear sky, a performance directed for Mrs Sadako Ogata, which is very significant, on the basis of whose reports formulate the views of the Security Council, which are the basis for the adoption of Resolution 1199, are trying to undo the victims of innocent civilians and those who have decided to engage in the country's defence call. Furthermore, those who write about actions and actions "on the mountain of Cicevic", deserve to be mentioned -- Cicavica Mountain is located south of Vucitrn, in the east of Drenica. If knowledge of the fact that Drenica was the second Serbian Holy Mountain requires knowledge of history, much less knowledge is needed to use the true name of the mountain. However, the problem obviously consists of that information source, which was mentioned here. That's what the mountain is called, in the 1980s, that my native Vučitrn was crossing in Vushtria, wanting to put an end to the Serbian root. Let them be honored by such sources. Respecting the geopolitical reality, its own power, the responsibility of participation in power, and using the reputation of this home and the right of this pay phone, I would like to say this -- there are those that Kosovo and Metohija are far away and will remain incomprehensible forever. Those in the world who are good over our backs are very dangerous, because they are called Serbs, but fortunately, their influence is insignificant. There are those who know the importance of Kosovo and Metohija, its monasteries, natural treasures, the possibilities of the market and the size of the electoral body, which, for their reasons, love or interest, will make every effort to preserve this space. But there are us who have Kosovo and Metohija life. We didn't choose the place of birth, we didn't go, we didn't run away, not because we were less valuable and not because we didn't have anywhere, but because we believe that Serbia and Vučitrn, and in Novi Sad, and that this government with the measures it takes, the solution it has, will do everything to convince those who think that by looking into another's yard and expecting help from those who care only about their own interests, it simply can't take away Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u795	There's a word from MP Milan Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u796	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions ahead of us are a solid basis for building a state platform on Cosmet, which we will represent in negotiations with the Albanian team, as soon as these negotiations, we hope, begin. The position of the SPO is that the state-owned negotiating platform must be based on full protection of Serbia's full sovereignty over Cosmet and that both Albanians and members of all other national communities in Cosmet must be guaranteed all democratic rights, in accordance with the highest American standards. Why the American -- first of all, because these are truly democratic standards and because Serbia is very similar in ethnic terms to the United States. In Serbia, more than 20 national communities and ethnic groups live. In Serbia, more and more, as in America, live members of all major religious world flows. In a multiethnic, multicultural and multi-religious perspective, Serbia is a Balkan America and therefore the SPO particularly stresses that we must first of all look to US democratic standards. According to these standards, loyalty to the state is the first obligation of all its citizens. I stress - loyalty to the state, not to the regime. The fight for the shift of power is a legitimate and fundamental democratic right, but it cannot be achieved by violence, but only by democratic elections. Fighting, however, is always a crime to bring down the state. I'm sorry to remind you, and it's still an important gathering, so I have to remind you of something that represents the alphabet of state theory and rights. Unfortunately, the great powerful world, which calls itself democratic, declares Ibrahim Rugova a Democrats, because he advocates to bring down the Serbian state by peaceful means and declares a new or an Albanian state in its territory. The SPO stresses that the very criminal political programme, Ibrahim Rugova, has given birth to today's Albanian terrorism and crimes. When we say that we are in favour of a democratic agreement with Albanians, we in the SPO make it clear and loud that negotiations -- in which state Kosovo is -- cannot be. Kosovo is in Serbia and Serbia is in Kosovo. It's undeniable, and this is where the dialogue can begin. Let our American friends draw up a list of the highest American democratic standards for nations, religions or races in their country, and we undertake in advance that all these standards will be guaranteed to Albanians and to all other national communities in Cosmet and throughout Serbia. So are we going to be bombed because we are so strongly attached to American democratic standards, the Charter of the United Nations and international law? Albania today is the largest base of international terror, Islamic fanaticism, and let's be realistic, general chaos. Both Albania, which is most directly behind the aggression on Serbia, has become a favorite and protégé of the NATO Pact and its members. The political leaders of the Cosmetic Albanians are calling themselves the baraques of European democracy. Are those democracies that rest in tribal prisons a few centuries ago, on blood revenge and on the slave status of an Albanian woman, those democracy and culture we just met in the Cave or in the Glodians? One of Mussolini's generals, he says, visited Cosmet during World War II, then occupied, and terrified of the civilization's reverse on one side, but also admired the flash of spirituality on the other side and said he donated the High Decains with a great sum, saying, "This country belongs to the people who built this beauty." At the beginning of the XII century, when the first Albanians from those hills landed on Cosmet, they found hundreds of Serbian churches, monasteries and borrowings. There are no cannons in Cosmet, not a single name for villages, cities, hills, rivers or streams, which do not bear a Serbian name. There is no NATO pact, no threats, that can force us to accept that a Serb becomes a Skenderaj. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u797	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milovan Bojic, and let MP Dusan Matkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u798	Dear Mr. President, members of the presidency, respected MPs, the centres of international military, political, financial powers accused Serbia of hiding the truth in Kosovo and Metohija, so they set out to find it feverishly. Diplomats, journalists, aid workers, intelligence and various world scouts could have gone uninterrupted from the cause of the consequences of the situation in Kosovo. They saw that Serbia's history, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija, is the history of an unprecedented exodus of Serbs from the province, with hundreds of thousands exiled and tens of thousands killed. They also learned that the state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, as an organic part of it, has invested tens of billions of dollars despite the unprecedented natural background of Albanians, making it all possible for a better life there to be available to all. And the truth has been found out. Serbia does not attack, but defends itself, not only the Serbs, but everyone living in it. The truth is, therefore, not in facts, but in their harmony. But today in Kosovo, it seems to me, more than ever before, that the truth does not seem as good to mankind as it does to cast out the truth. And as light casts a shadow, the truth reveals a secret, it pops out into the open when no one is looking for it. And it came to light that the minority wanted to be declared a nation, which only lacks an independent republic. Those who sought the truth could not or wanted to bear it. She was embarrassing to them. There's only one cure against the unpleasant truths, one cure to make peace with them. But how do you step down and quit the show, pull the actors and the director, forget the stakes and the resources? No one owns a monopoly over the truth and no one has the privilege of sinning. And we're all wrong, some more and some more all the time. And sinning is human, but insisting on it is devilish. That's right, even from America. Only evil hideouts today over the credentials and shootings in Kosovo and Metohija. Although wickedness mostly drinks its poison itself, dangerously kills truthfulness as the basic and most important trait of character. One who lies almost lacks character. And if he's lying under oath, he didn't have it at all. Refugees and humanitarian disasters were supposed to amaze the world and result in intervention. But miracles stop as soon as they start repeating themselves. The lie has seven different variants, and the truth only has one. And the columns, which no one had cast out, returned the weapons that no one from the state had given them, received from her, instead of punishment. They received help from Serbia, in which it was always thought that the one who lives for himself is rightfully dead to others. Serbia, which is the best way to make a good firm decision to contain evil. Serbia, in which great works are accomplished, only if the young are executed properly. Serbia, where there are no new directions. There's only one man to man, no matter what faith or belief he may have been. So it's all in the hands of a man, and that's why he often has to follow them. I believe that Albanians will wash their hands of blood and weapons, which they have shot at their country without knowing they're shooting at themselves, because secession is impossible, and together life is the only certainty and lasting solution. Dear MPs, the consistent desire of Albania's separatist movement for great Albania is filled with fanaticism. Ino-helpers and fanaticism today do not allow Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to change their minds, so they insist on changing the subject. From fanaticism to barbarism is just one step. He's shorter and more destructive in the environment, in which everyone condemns violence and delivers weapons. To impose your will on others is violence, and to impose yourself is the highlight of violence. In Kosovo and Metohija, Albanian terrorists act with violence on Serbs and a country of loyal Albanians, and America imposes itself on Europe. It's paying for Serbia. He who does not punish terrorism encourages and encourages him. The fight against him is similar to that of cancer. With malignancy, remove yourself without evil intentions and part of the surrounding tissue. No one, not even Serbia's fight against terrorism leads to air rifles and school bullets. I know it's true that it's based on power. Power is sometimes stronger than truth, but power should also determine its limits. However, it is almost limitless support for crime in Kosovo and Metohija. It is known that the criminal never lacks an excuse, and that the crime is ever greater, if the one who makes it is greater. Unresponsiveness to crime is greater than crime itself. But as fire is not put out by fire, so evil shall not be extinguished. Serbia is used to not being revenged, but forgiving, because it knows that revenge brings pleasure for one day, and forgiveness for a lifetime. He's the only one who doesn't forgive terrorism and the destruction of the earth. Serbia is just like that throughout its history, as it is today in Kosovo and Metohija. Unexploited terrorism is seen by Serbia as an unsettled fire, which does not silence and burn, but turns the region's security into ashes. And a threat comes to her instead of support, and instead of the reward of injustice. There is no greater injustice than when justice is late. Fortunately, no great injustice lasts too long. Sooner or later, they'll say they did it out of ignorance. Yet, nothing is more dangerous than ignorance, which becomes active. In the sacred defence of the country, Serbia is not afraid of anyone, it does not challenge anyone. She was never weak in that. The weak are doomed to fail, for life only loves the strong. She defeated all the conquerors, and lost to her own dissension. Dear People's Messengers, today's unity to defend the country, we confirm that we have learned our history and learned lessons from it. We're fully aware when the love of the country dies, then the state must die. Serbia, therefore, does not live on a geographical map, but in the hearts of its MPs and citizens, who chose them. Let us be bold, MPs, looking at us Serbia and all of Partiot's Yugoslavia expects justice in Kosovo, and it knows that it is more uncertain than the truth. A lot more than her. That justice is the rarest power, will it arrive this time with rockets? Albanian leaders and their foreign teachers believe that human life is a story, that what doesn't fit in the story and wasn't life. They don't appreciate it, they play with it, they burn it, and they turn it all to dust. Young soldiers, police officers and people in Kosovo listen to a voice from Belgrade. We look into their eyes today and say, "We can put our freedom through the freedom of history without being honored in front of ourselves and faithful to ideals." With courage, let us separate ourselves with the blows of fate. Let us be aware that if an accident cannot be avoided, it can be overcome. Let the pressures of temptation fortify us, and let our perseverance of goodness overcome the evil intentions. Let our life not be the novel that happened to us, but the novel that we created ourselves. May his title be Serbia, territorialally integrated with Kosovo and Metohija, as its inalienable work, happiness and freedom of all those living in it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u799	Thank you. There's a word from MP Dusko Matkovic. Let the People's MP Dragan Veselinov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u800	Dear President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, after all we heard today in the Serbian Parliament, it is difficult to add something new, but it is easy to conclude that Kosovo and Metohija Serbia has a single view. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and Yugoslavia and will always be so. This generation has fallen to solve the problem in Kosovo and Metohija and, in doing so, to show the world and history what the power of this country and this people is in. The basic characteristic of the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija is that terrorism has been defeated. I'd like to highlight a few more elements of importance for the assessment of what was, what the situation is now and what should be done further. It is clear that the main issue in Kosovo and Metohija is separatism, which the leaders and representatives of Albanians and their political parties in Kosovo and Metohija imposed on the Albanian national community. That is why they bear the greatest responsibility for the huge victims, the suffering and the damage to Albanians, especially Albanians in the country. Now Albanian separatism and terrorism lose support with their countrymen, which is a definitive confirmation of the regularity of our policy -- that terrorism and terrorism and measures towards them must be separated from members of the Albanian national community, who want to live in peace and work with other citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia. The most painful issue in the events in Kosovo and Metohija is, of course, the hostage issue. The victims, the crimes, the abductions are scars and wounds on the body of this nation through which we cannot cross over and impose upon us the obligation to bring those responsible to justice. The pain and suffering of the kidnapped and their families are enormous. An example of Orahovac and many other examples show the blackest side of terrorism, but they also show us a world like the developed world, which is best seen in the extremely difficult media struggle that we are fighting. Representatives of all the world's leading media simply rushed to Orahovac to see a nonexistent mass grave of Albanians, based on false information from the "Die Presse" list. But that's why they won't show or do it in an offensive way towards the victims and their families when it comes to numerous losses and torture sites in Kosovo and Metohija -- and Ratish, and Klecka and more. Serbia is making every effort to address humanitarian problems. The refugees are back. We have opened up a large number of humanitarian centres, and the most powerful countries and their leaders want to use the humanitarian situation as a cause for pressures and direct threats to air strikes. An example of the village Resnik is an illustration of lies, directing, planting, but - moreover - an example of turning defeated into a victim through so-called. humanitarian disaster. Also, it is a sad example when representatives of some international humanitarian organisations and some countries prevented Albanians from returning from the village of Istinic to their homes. More important, however, we managed to bring all these refugees home. Through the problem of kidnapping, refugees, solving humanitarian problems, media image, therefore, terrorists, developed world, their organisation and media, the states of Serbia and Yugoslavia, so everyone has shown a real face and interest, and to further underline, our interest and goal is a peaceful common life in Kosovo and Metohija. The actions of the state authorities of Serbia and Yugoslavia, primarily state authorities and institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, are of the utmost importance. The efficiency of the state must be demonstrated in all segments. Obligations must be paid towards the state in Kosovo and Metohija, a cadastral list of land must be made, the judicial system must function effectively, the issue of citizenship must be resolved, the question of population censuses, and the day-to-day problems of citizens at local level. In my opinion, the main lever for long-term problem resolution in Kosovo and Metohija is in the economic sphere. The solution, of course, is to activate huge ecnomial resources in Kosovo and Metohija, and within Serbia and Yugoslavia. It is therefore clear why terrorists tried immediately at the beginning of the conflict to prevent the functioning of key capacities and large businesses. Just think of the example of the surface spear in Belačevac. But they had no success in that. No factory in the last three months has been stopped because of terrorist facts. Workers in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs, Albanians and others worked and guarded factories. I would dare to generalise it: as in factories, throughout Kosovo and Metohija, we will keep everything and preserve it, living and working together. We have before us tasks to increase the production that works, but also to launch those capacities that have not worked before these events. This will allow for employment and for Albanians, but also for everyone in Kosovo and Metohija to turn pay issues, overtime, youth employment, and for the second plan to remain questions about who is a Serb, who is an Albanian, who is a Muslim, etc. We need to run a Ferronikl in Glogovec, a cremation factory and bricks in Djakovica, a combination of leather and shoes in the oven, as well as other facilities. That's the direction, that's the way we have to go to Kosovo and Metohija. There are many examples that Albanians have not left work in the past. Vučitrn, Urosjevac, Gjilane, Vec, etc. I expect that now there will be a large number of demands for Albanians to return to work, those Albanians who were under pressure from separatist politics several years ago left their jobs and factories alone. I think the first foreign capital invested in factories in Kosovo and Metohija will mark the start of a definitive stabilisation in this part of Serbia, and I would like to say to some Western countries: you will contribute much more to peace in Kosovo and Metohija if you invest the first few hundred million dollars in the Belacevac and Dobro Selo surface spears, Trepč and other capacities, than all these pressures and alleged humanitarian aids, draft agreements, contact sessions and other groups and Security Council sessions and numerous resolutions. I particularly want to highlight two things in the framework of Serbia's policy in Kosovo and Metohija. On the one hand, a decisive fight against terrorists and their destruction, and, on the other hand, communication with Albanians, common life, political agreement, an agreement that will respect the position of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also victory over separatism and terrorism. In this way we must permanently stabilise the opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija, open the door to economic solutions, higher wages, foreign capital. Finally, with great recognition to the members of the MUP and the Yugoslav Army in Kosovo and Metohija, where we also got heroes of our time, regardless of all the pressures, we have a historic obligation: to preserve the state and the people. Therefore, Serbia's unity will be a key lever for the implementation of the task ahead of us. Serbia's assembly will pass the exam before the people, and its conclusions, which I truly support, are an indication of the country's continued functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u801	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov to prepare MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u802	Mr. President of the Assembly, members of the government, MPs, the "Vojvodina Coalition" of our government's report was no longer expected. This is her maximum. From cretin in Klecka, to cretched in the heads of ministers, this government can successfully count the dead and wounded.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u803	Mr. Vesenov, I must warn you that you treat the members of the government with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u804	This is the utmost of my respect. This government, unfortunately, apart from counting the dead and the wounded further -- looks like it can't go away. However, the government's report is acceptable. Even if half of what is said in it is true, it is enough to be accepted. The defence of the country does not tolerate discussion. However, a government that does not understand and is unable to bring about the causes of the cosmetic crisis, is unable to propose solutions that would suit Serbia as a whole, does not understand that the entire political system and constitutional arrangement of Serbia has been in the deepest crisis for eight years and that this constitution and political sitstem have caused the national robbery, that it has caused the greatest national conflicts, that it causes territorial and regional tensions and the greatest conflicts, then this government will not go far from this report, nor do we believe that the people are asking anything else, will this government of Cosmet be saved? The Vojvodina coalition honours all dead police officers, soldiers and innocent civilian victims of terror and armed riots in Cosmet, regardless of whether innocent civilians are Serbs or Albanians. We support the defence of Serbia and Serbia's territory. The country's defence is above the interest of this, however weak governments and any other government, the country's defence is above President Milosevic's policy, which is very bad and is above the investment of the duke's leaders to Serbian ministers and merchants. No one has the right to betray Serbia and lead a desertion policy because of disagreement with the regime and this government in Belgrade. No one has the right, because it disagrees with this government, the political system and the constitution of this country, to lead a policy of national immunity to the defence of the Serbian state. The state is above the interest of any government, any party. We are all equal citizens in Serbia, for better or for worse. We condemn terrorism and the armed rebellion of Albanian separatists in Cosmet. Albanians are not fighting Marjanovic's government and the non-democratic regime in Belgrade, but are fighting the Serbian state. The terrible government in Belgrade only contributes to making Albanian separatism even bigger. We condemn foreign threats to military intervention in Serbia. Albanian nationalists are responsible for the failure of Kosovo autonomy, not Serbs. In 1981, Albanians gave up autonomy and requested the republic as a way for Kosovo's independence. This was caused by defensive Serbian nationalism, which then evolved into a major Serbian nationalism and a war adventure. Albanians contributed to the creation of a regressive Milosevic regime in Belgrade. Albanians contributed to enmity towards Vojvodina's autonomy with Serbian nationalists leading to its violent and anti-constitutional collapse. From there, the Vojvodina has nothing to do with Cosmet, nor does Cosmet owe him anything. The existing Serbian government and the regime are unable to resolve the cosmetic issue successfully. The government has not explained, I repeat, the causes of the cosmetic crisis, nor has it proposed, nor has this assembly, headed by its president, ever dared to meet and try to create a common platform for joint performance towards Albanian separatists. Members of the Serbian government and some official circles in Serbia and Yugoslavia are in vain spreading the illusion that Russia and China will jump to our aid. The Russian ballalaika will never play a sugar bee, a Banatian and a forest bike. We're never going to be in a Chinese restaurant, not even here in Belgrade, not a Serbian charm, not a movable. We do not support Serbia's political or constitutional system. We are looking for a change in Serbia's constitution and we are demanding economic autonomy for Vojvodina in a single Serbia. We agree that Serbia belongs to a single flag, but Vojvodina belongs to its money. We don't agree to receive $90 a month's salary. Vojvodina is neither Kosovo nor Serbia nor Serbia, and Serbia's government cannot only lead the policy of changing the status of Cosmet in Serbia without proposing a total change in the territorial distribution of power in Serbia. Vojvodina must get its parliament with legislative authority, and Belgrade and Serbian regions, as well as large cities, a large local self-government. The stance of the Vojvodina Coalition on the territorial distribution of power in Serbia is this -- the only three-part Serbia will be whole. Serbia, Vojvodina and Kosovo are components of Serbia's integrated state. Everything else is unnecessary fighting, demeaning, robbery, enmity and tightness. There is no modern Serbia if Vojvodina remains its colony. Serbia's assembly must not be the instrument of the domination of 6 million Serbians over 2 million citizens in Vojvodina and as many citizens in Cosmet. No region in Serbia, so neither Serbia, thanks to its number of prisoners, must become an instrument of domination over other regions because they have fewer inhabitants. In Serbia, we must all be equal. Serbia can survive as a state, but it will not survive, not just because of this government, it will not survive if it works harder in the Kosovo south, but in the Vojvodina north. Serbia must head north, to a new Europe, not south into the backdrop of old Turkey. Vojvodina seeks power over its oil and wants free grain exports. Whoever wants to go south after Michael Obrenovic's finger in the Republic Square in Belgrade, go south, take his safe path. Vojvodina follows the path of Charnojevic and Dosite Obradovic, north and there, to a common Europe, we will arrive with or without Serbia, let Serbia decide. The Vojvodina coalition offers co-operation to all patriotic political forces in Serbia who want a modern constitution and Serbia, in which all its peoples and citizens and regions will be equal. To keep Cosmet in Serbia, to live Serbia and to live a free Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u805	There is a word from MP Kragović Ljubomir, and let the MP Ahmeta Ramadan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u806	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us with a proposal for the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of National Unity, to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija specifically. I must admit that today's task is the number one Government of National Unity to preserve Kosovo's and Metohija's space, thus preserving Serbs and Serbs in general. What we are dealing with today is only consequences, and I would say little about the causes that have affected it, as well as the state itself today in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. Violent colonisation and imperialisation of the Serbian ethnic space of Kosovo and Metohija has been going on for centuries. To remind you, Serbs have moved to the Balkans since 4. - 7th century and occupied the territory of today's Macedonia to Raska, Zeta and Dalmatia to Zadar, and Sisak area in Croatia. In the 8th and 9th centuries, Serbs formed their early-fed states, Raska, Zeta, Zahumlje, Neretvan region, and in the 10th century Bosnia. During the German dynasty, between the 12th and 15th centuries, Kosovo and Metohija became central areas of Serbian state culture and spirituality. The most beautiful monasteries in Europe, which today represent the pearls of the world's cultural heritage and the unsurpassed monuments of architecture, painting and literacy, are built in the area. With the fall of the Serbian Empire and the arrival of Turks and their rule, which has been reflected in the violent Islamisation and Albanianisation of Kosovo and Metohija, we come to data that out of 95% of the Serbian population today we have about 15% of Serbian living in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. In this process of Islamisation and Albanianisation of Kosovo and the Metohija, there is also the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. The violent Albanianisation of Kosovo and Metohija was a state-run party, political, state-run programme consisting of two parts -- the relocation of the Shipar from Albania to Serbian estates and others, the persecution of Serbs from their hearths, the ban on their return in 1945, and the continued state support of the fascist-nationalist forces of Shipara to persecute and kill Serbs. About 300,000 Shipara has been inhabited since 1945, making up 1/5 of today's Serb population. In addition to the large villages of Serbs, which took place under Arsenija III Čarnojevic and Arsenija IV Jovanovic, the largest Serb village occurred during the communist-Brozo rule of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and the Union of Communists, i.e. Communists who managed to banish hundreds of thousands of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. The trend of violent Albanianisation of Kosovo and Metohija is still current today, when with the help of Western powerful men trying to implement a three-part Shiptar separatist plan. Ethnically clean -- Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo Republic and part three -- major Albania. These goals of the Shiparian Separatists are trying to achieve the worst methods, which is terrorism. Terrorism as the greatest evil of the modern world, and the government of the Republic of Serbia must choke and destroy it regardless of the pressures that come from individual world powers. Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia and it must be as long as Serbia exists. It is frightening that ideas, camps, crematoriums, mass killings of the Serbian and other population, which disagree with the idea of Shiptar terrorism, exist and happens at the end of the 20th century. Cypriot terrorists, with help and addendum, as well as training their forces in Albania, today the country with the largest litter of terrorist gangs, the country in which forces are being prepared for the darkest targets of terrorism, must be condemned by the European Community and the whole world. It has to stop funding and supporting the Ship's terrorists. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of national unity, has managed to break and destroy terrorist gangs and has to work on it until the complete destruction of the Cypriot terrorists, as well as the very idea of creating a great Albania in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. The peace and normal lives of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija must be ensured. Conditions must be created for an agreement with those who want to negotiate, respecting the Constitution and the laws of the Serbian state and creating conditions for the census in Kosovo and Metohija to determine the structure of the population that lives, as there are various data, as well as to revise the parent, land, cadastrian books because they are forged during the previous rule of Shipara. Dear fellow MPs, I must commend the heroic struggle of members of the Yugoslav Army on the border belt towards Albania and members of the Interior Ministry for the destruction of terrorist gangs throughout Kosovo and Metohija, and also regretting the individuals who died, individual police officers, citizens of the kidnapped Serbs, who remained and who were kidnapped, beastly tortured, mass-killed by Cypriot terrorists. I must also commend the courage and determination of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who have decided to stay to fight, to preserve their centuries-old hearths, which they have been reluctant to give for months, kept by them, as well as their villages and cities. Finally, I support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of National Unity, to normalise the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u807	The People's MP Ahmeta Ramadan has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Stevanović Veroljub.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u808	Dear MPs, the Honorable Presidency and I will say something about the proposed programme. The government's offered material is in the spirit of the current views of the official policy which has been in recent decades, i.e. it has its basic postulate confrontation with the democratic principles of state-level regulation, resulting in confrontation with all international organisations and the growing international isolation of Yugoslavia. The political movement in Serbia, whose actions contributed most to the collapse of the 1974 Constitution, has been drawing its strength from promises of a quick and effective settlement of the Kosovo issue all the time. As it has been resolved in the last decade, the Kosovo Node is more or less known to all of us, and these are primarily: arbitration and forced constitutional changes, thus degraded Kosovo's constitutional position. The following are the extraordinary measures of the National Assembly, which imposed forced measures in all major economic entities in Kosovo, the closure and abolition of Pristina's Radio Television in Albanian and a large number of other public institutions. The next stop is funding schools in Albanian, exorcising from school facilities of all students and students of Albanian nationality, exorcising more than 100,000 workers and killing dozens of protesters in the streets of Pristina and other Kosovo cities, among which there are quite a number of children, only because they protested against imposed political and constitutional changes. Instead of the promised results, the general state of Kosovo is constantly getting worse, there has been a growing violation of fundamental human rights based on a report by all international institutions, which monitor the state of human rights throughout the world. Of course, this has also contributed more and more to the internationalisation of the Kosovo issue, and all other sides have not shown themselves so far and are at least peaceful towards the political movement in Kosovo. A typical example of unpreparedness for a peaceful political solution is certainly also a disabling by state authorities, an agreement reached on the problem of education. This led to the current and very difficult, tragic situation in Kosovo, which in international public opinion, in the resolutions of the most international organisation and institution, is called a humanitarian disaster. Here by momentum, already known style continues confrontation with the entire democratic world, so it is stubbornly trying to prove that there is no humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. I will ask one question on this occasion, gentlemen of the Parliament. How else could it be called a situation where hundreds of destroyed, burned homes, hundreds of thousands of displaced people, and about 1,000 people were killed, including old men, women, children, and even children? I do, and if I have to give up my speech...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u809	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u810	I believe, and that is the view of the Party for Democratic Action, that the underlying problem in solving the problem, and in this respect also a constant confrontation of Serbia-Yugoslavia's official policy with the entire democratic world, is contained in the Serbian policy's stance on the Albanian issue that was raised in the 19th century. If the national programmes of the last century in the Balkans could be realized by the beginning of this century, with huge losses, the suffering of the civilian population, it is clear to everyone that the same scenario cannot go through at the very end of the 20th century without an adequate response from the international community, and cannot be justified by the loss of civilian population, especially children, women and out-of-the-way old people, through the defence of sovereignty and integrity. After all, from the very beginning of the state, it had, for its purpose, organised public institutions in the general interest of its citizens. That the existing government is not yet able to resolve Kosovo's node, best proves the position of Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, far more than in the one-party system discriminated on the social, cultural and political agenda, although the Albanian population has participated in all previous multi-party elections, is further than ever the achievement of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by international conventions. In practice, very often they are violated by the Constitution and by the laws of guaranteed rights. In the structures of the Pcinj County's state bodies, in which about 28% of the population is Albanian, none are employed. In the state authorities of Presevo municipality with 90% of Albanians, and in Bujanovac with 61% of Albanians, Albanians are only symbolically represented, and on newly established state authorities, the Presevo border crossing, there is not a single Albanian employee. In public services, education, in business organisations, the employment of Albanians is below every minimum. The basic human right, guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, is equal to the right to vote. And in Bujanovac, it was flagrantly violated because municipal decisions have for six years imposed such a system of electoral units on Albanian residents to have about two times the number of voters per elected councilman over the settlements with the Serb population. And on the use of force by police over the municipal leadership of Presevo and the criminal procedure against the president of this municipality, the only Albanian who performs this post based on election results, I have met this assembly and sought the formation of a survey board. However, as you know, my request has been completely ignored. I would not continue to bother you with such and similar examples of progress, but I would once again point out the need for the National Assembly to look far more objectively, without the passion of the past, at the problem we are talking about, but also at other issues, nationalities and national minorities, in light of modern democratic principles and criteria, so that the population of these areas of the Balkans will finally move towards European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u811	The People's Messenger Veroljub Stevanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger of Serbs Petrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u812	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Kragujevac and Šumadija are wondering -- what sin did Serbia commit, and we are again being seduced by international sanctions, and are being threatened by the impact of the NATO Pact? Is Serbia exclusively defending its state territory, which has been attacked and threatened? Yeah. We are solely defending what is ours, which was ours from the creation of the Serbian state, and which, while the Serbs and Serbia, must be ours. Serbia does not seek a pedal of Albanian or any other state territory. Serbia does not dispute either human, religious, cultural, or property rights for Albanians living in Serbia. Serbia is fighting Albanian terrorism and Nazi cretans -- the crematorium. Serbia in Kosovo today defends the Charter of the United Nations, the Dayton Agreement and the foundations of international law. All this is undeniable and clear as tears. Then why are we being punished, and why are we threatened with stronger punishments? I refer to this question in the name of the warlord of the Shumadia of two world wars. And I direct him, first of all, to the Russians, the Americans, the French and the British whose allies we were in those wars. The forest and the whole of Serbia suffered the biggest possible victims in the fight against German hegemonism in the First, and German Nazism in World War II. We hoped that today's Germany would first and most determinedly condemn the crematoriums of Albanian Nazis in Kosovo and the demands for the creation of a major Albanian Reich in the Balkans, to show Europe and the world that there are no more large-scale ambitions in that country and that anything that reminds Auschwitz and Mathauzen is causing a revolution in the Germans. Unfortunately, today's Germany is the main aider of Albanian terrorists and Nazis and the ringleader of the world's campaign for Serbia's military campaign. We refuse to believe that the inspired German hegemonism and the revived enmity towards Serbia will succeed in bringing the Russians, Americans, French and British to attack Serbia at the end of the 20th century. If by some miracle it did happen, then bombing Serbia, the Americans, the Russians, the French and the British would bomb all their history and all their victims in World War I and World War II. What do we do if the Then Pact, led by Germany, turns out to be an ultimatum that we capitulate in front of Albanian Nazis and fall to our knees before demands to create an Albanian state in Serbia's territory? Let me quote the words of SPO President Vuk Draskovic: "If we accepted such an ultimatum, then we would commit a crime against ourselves, because we would also betray our ancestors, our history, our country, the truth, justice and God. We will not treat the force that is against us, but the sanctuary that we must defend." In 1941, the Germans offered both life and freedom to Kragujeva Professor Milo Pavlovic only to bow his head before shooting their students. The Serbian professor replied that "in the Serb professor he is not a professor with a catalogue alone" and went to the losing place with his students. Those were the Serbs yesterday, we are today, and that is what we will always be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u813	Thank you. He has the word of the Serb MP Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u814	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, today's theme does not require big words and great explanations. In that spirit, the proposed conclusions allow us to see Serbia and Yugoslavia's future from the point of view of self-respect for its citizens. It confirms the correctness of all the measures the government has taken to stabilise the opportunities in Cosmet. The point is that all attempts, which solve the cosmetic problem, including these dissonant tones heard in the Assembly, do not seek respect for the integrity and sovereignty of Serbia-Yugoslavia, cannot be granted. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, there is a spirit of unity. Every man we have carries Kosovo wherever he goes, all over the world. It's the peace of Serbs scattered around the world, it fills the gaps, forgets the divisions, removes the impatience. The opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija are spoken in the language of union, not in language of distinction and division, and they are very well understood by parents with their sons. On this problem and here and somewhere else, and everywhere and always, both son and father, and grandson and grandfather have the same opinion. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has declared the equality of all citizens, which preserves the idea of community and Yugoslavia and deserves every opportunity, including here, to be the country's pride. Serbia is a civil state that respects all human and civil rights and the rights of national minorities. For example, I cite Vojvodina, whose national charms of 26 nations are known to you all, and there is no interference with a coherent life. In Vojvodina, many cultural influences are mixed and met, and we have a real wealth of intertwining of different national cultures. No one's threatened, no one's close, international relations are good, and it's familiar to everyone. The same laws and the constitution apply to both Kosovo and Metohija. But in Cosmet, it is part of terrorism, the state and its citizens have been attacked, the aim is to secede Serbia's territory for the achievement of authentic dreams about great Albania. Our country's response was an appropriate situation, all in order to live together, normally, in peace, dignity and full security. The terrorist gangs, by the operation of the state authorities, and very professionally, within the framework of legal regulations, are broken and order and peace is established, in the interest of all citizens who live there. The procedures for defending the founded principles of the rule of law have been applied, just as honest and intelligent people from our past would have done. Even so, we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are today in a position to prove our integrity and humanism, the virtues of which we are known in the world. Never were our country's actions inhumane. In Kosovo and Metohija, every individual, no matter what opinion, is protected just as it would be protected in any part of the Republic of Serbia. No law state will allow for the ownership or detachment of its territory or the establishment of a parallel government. There's no guessing about that. The charge with terrorists must be final, but the seed of evil destroyed. We understand custody very well from the point of view of New European politics. Under the company of democracy, we are served power, then procedures and German frustrations. It's just subjecting to disciplinary rules of the West and doing their will. Through Kosovo and Metohija, the West wants to regulate relations within Serbia. Cosmet is a field, and Serbia and Yugoslavia are in play. It is about pulling strings, which are transparent intentions and for the powers of the craft, but Serbia will not be given. We know that Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija is not Serbia, but mutilated and downed. Serbia successfully defends its territory and no noise on the outside will deter it from that goal. A civilized conversation, where representatives of Albanian parties would show that they have a good will for dialogue, with the condemnation of terrorism, would lead to a solution to the situation. Everything else is just a scheme of dementing people and creating confusion. Of all things, peace is more important, security for all, and it can only be guaranteed by the official authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, the present and coming time, demand stability and responsibility, and not only that, but, as the wise man would say, and the strength of the soul, the ability to resist temptation, and From him would say, "The strength of the soul makes it possible to say no, where the world expects -- yes." By respecting national and national interests, we also respect the orders of the Kosovo Testament, and they are sacred, without doubt, they make us firm and complex, now that the pressures are common, these demands are mandatory and other commands cannot exist. Otherwise, we lost our identity, lost our roots, abandoned and completely alone. By defending Kosovo and Metohija, we defend our own. That awareness, I see, dominates here in the Assembly, as well as the insistence of our president, Slobodan Milosevic, that Kosovo and Metohija's problems are resolved exclusively peacefully, with simultaneous economic recovery, greater employment, increasing standards and full national equality. And not only that consciousness, it experiences full enlightenment and makes us not only obliged not only to give Kosovo and Metohija, but also absolutely unique and fearless. By defending Kosovo and Metohija, we defend our authenticity and that is the source of our strength, and that is not what the world wants to understand. Only people who recognize their country, respect its laws can hope for a decent future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u815	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we continue at exactly 2.30 p.m. Dear People's MPs, please take your seats, continue our work. He has the word National MP Jemail Suljević, and let Branislav Pomoriski be prepared (after Jemail Suljević is not present, he has the word Branislav Pomoriski).
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u817	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem of Kosovo has been going on for 10 full years. Here, after 10 years, the Republic Parliament is meeting to speak on the subject of what is to be said. For who knows which time, here we are, put before the final act. So what's been done past you people's MPs for 10 years, so past the expressed people's will, we're literally supposed to be anomising here and saying that it's well done and that's how it's supposed to be done. As serious people, we need to talk about the causes, not just analyze the consequences of what was going on. In order to analyze the causes, we need to remember what was done in those past 10 years and how the problem to this extent has escalated and arisen. You remember that it actually started when our Mr. President promised the Serbian people in Kosovo that no one should beat them. Unfortunately, to this day, there have been dozens of deaths, thousands of exiles, etc. You also remember that a loan was called for the rebirth of Serbia, which was meant to solve the neural zones of our country's post-war, to resolve the issue of undeveloped areas, including Kosovo, to open new jobs, to bring young people back there and to change the ethnic structure for the sake of Serbian living. Unfortunately, the jobs are not open, the Serbian people have not returned there, and from Zajm for the rebirth of Serbia, it is hardly anyone who has seen the dinar where he went. What we got was that we got a multinational BK corporation, which today has very little to do with Kosovo. You also remember the Kosovo Programme, after which a million dollars went to Kosovo daily. Today we need $2 million for the police and the army to get out of that car. As a Duchess and an economist, I think it should have been done differently. That money, or part of that money, was supposed to be directed to Vojvodina, to its agriculture, to its oil, to its industry. With these effects, which we would have gotten if we had invested that money in Vojvodina, Vojvodina would be one of the most developed regions in Europe today. Serbia and Yugoslavia would be in the European Union, and the Serbian people, wherever they live in Europe or the world, would be appreciated, unlike the situation we have today. The Albanian people would be loyal to such a state, because they would live in a country where they live far better than the one they want to make. Now we come up with the key thing, the key problem, where the solution is for Kosovo. The solution for Kosovo is certainly not a military route in Kosovo. The solution for Kosovo is the solution to all the problems Serbia has. And her problems arise precisely from the enormous level of centralization of the government, which she currently has. You see, there's classic good-and-bad-child syndrome. We have a mother Serbia, we have a good child, who learns, works, is worth, obediently, does not contradict when told. It's the Duke's. It's being punished. We've got another child, who's insubordination, and it's being rewarded for his "mistakes." What we need to do and what we are looking for, we are not just looking for Vojvodina, we are looking for our Forest, for our Belgrade, for our Sandzak and for all the regions in this country, which have a historical and economic justification that they exist. When such a state of Serbia is made, it will be democratically and decentralised. It will automatically address Kosovo's problem in such a situation. I have a request for you. When it comes to redefinition of our common state, I only ask you to consider this and not forget our Vojvodina or our Sandzak and all our regions, which have a historical and economic justification to exist. And the Duke will know for his part that he will return it to you, as he has so far.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u818	Thank you. The People's Messenger Jemail Suljević has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Fevzi Murić.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u819	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before I present my position before the policy of the Bosniak National Council of Sandzak, I will make one of our general views regarding the giving of the post or ricket to the dead in Kosovo. We pay our respects and ricket to all the dead in Kosovo, so the victims of one wrong policy of the current regime. As far as our position to resolve all political issues is concerned, it is very clear. We are against the use of force to achieve political goals and impose political solutions in general. Also, by wrong policy, the current regime has put the country at risk and caused the international community to take military intervention. It is absolutely certain, in our opinion, that the government will not be put at risk, nor will we, as MPs, but it is quite certain that innocent recruits and other people who are engaged in certain jobs will be at risk or, at least, may be at risk. As for the conclusions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in my opinion, the conclusions do not solve the current problem. First, they don't solve Kosovo's problem. On the other hand, they do not solve other political issues that Mr. Kasa spoke of. We all agree with that - it is a finding by the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - that this country is multinational, that it is multicultural, that it is multi-confessional and that all issues that exist as unresolved issues should be addressed. Also, we believe that the current problem of Kosovo cannot be solved by force and cannot be resolved by will or by one side's views, as nothing could have been achieved with that referendum. Once again, I must underline that the proposed conclusions will not be reached, nor will the temporary council president be able to resolve anything. Let's not get carried away, let's not fool ourselves, we need to be realistic and honest about the existing problem. If we really want to look at it, we're doing something that won't bring any results. Finally, I would like to suggest once again that this state and responsible institutions and individuals stop the evil that is happening in Kosovo, accept and seek representatives of international organisations to help resolve the situation in Cosmet and help resolve other unresolved issues, such as the situation and status of Sandzak and Bosniak Sandzak Yugoslavia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u820	Thank you. There's a word from MP Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u821	The Deputy Prime Minister is giving me a threat. If it's dangerous, I'll give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u822	It's not a threat. It's advice to be smart.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u823	We'll see who in this situation should be smart. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given the essence of today's agenda, I would not engage in any special elaborate. The country's exclusive guilt for the current situation is found in Albanians, in the international community, in Americans, etc. We need to ask if that's the case. Today, unfortunately, we are dealing exclusively with the consequences of a ten-year-old regime policy. There's a little talk about the causes. In the report too. The role and guilt of the regime for the whole state is not spoken of. It is too high to talk about the war consequences of an unsolved and well-tapped political problem. It's harmful to qualify for innocents and other terrorists. I ask the question: Who killed and kidnapped the Bosniaks in Sandzak burned down their houses and did ethnic cleansing in the western part of Sandzak? How guilty is the state, and what was its role in all this? At the spring session of the National Assembly, I asked you to open a discussion on these issues, so that we would not say that someone was distorting the truth and that someone was only telling the truth. You weren't prepared to accept a debate about kidnapped people in the North and the Strpts. Unfortunately, there have been kidnappings and murders in Kosovo, as well as everything the government has stated in its Kosovo status report. If these problems had been approached honestly then, at least the problems that violate the basic human right to life, perhaps in Kosovo the situation would have been quite different, this situation might not have happened, and even if it had happened, it might have been milder. Unfortunately, you were not prepared for this, as you are not ready today to open up some issues and problems not only of Kosovo and the Albanian community, but of all others living in this country. When you're ready, we don't know. What else needs to happen in this country to be ready. You'll have to be ready. Never say never in politics. Despite all the survivors, Bosniaks in Sandzak continue to show their loyalty to this country. First of all, we showed this by going out to the elections, by our presence in this House, by our desire to get out of here, from this place, solve problems, not by looking over a desert pipe. Just because our people show loyalty to this country, by going out to elections and showing their loyalty in all other spheres of life, our people deserve to change their relationship with him and to behave in accordance with the respect of our human, civil, national and religious rights. According to all the international documents mentioned in the government report, the government has an obligation and responsibility to resolve Bosniak status and Sandzak status. I ask you and ask this parliament and the government to initiate a procedure to resolve the constitutional and legal position of Bosniaks in Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u824	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Svirčević Ratimir; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Ibro Vait.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u825	Dear MPs, I would like to ask a Mr. Chairman about the technology of the appointment of this session today. I've got some objections, so I'd like to ask that this opportunity be resolved. We got a first proposal from the government, some kind of paper, if the local community had sent it, I don't think she'd have a quorum. Furthermore, the call was a government proposal, signed by a member of the government, and eventually a telegram said to be the subject, and as far as the conclusions are concerned, you can read them in the daily press. Why didn't you send us a copy of that daily press, and at least they'd pick up a circulation of some of those sheets. I know one thing, that the four parties, as you said parliamentary, which have parliamentary clubs, I can't remember the exact formulation, the migration, were in the means of information and agreed on these conclusions. I'd like to pray for the future for these parties that I belong to, that's the Reform Democratic Party of Vojvodina, that I've been elected on the list of the Vojvodina Coalition, and now I'm in the parliamentary club of democratic parties, that you have little understanding of our position, that in time we get what we need and that we know what you know in advance. I first saw the conclusions today, and what can I say? That we small and unskilled Serbs, autonomouss and reformists, consider...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u826	I ask the People's MPs not to receive it from the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u827	I have stopped by thinking that you too are to blame for these problems in Serbia. Your national euphoria, haughtiness, has led to the loss of most Serbian countries, as you once liked to say, and we also say the loss of most Serbian values. The Serbs who lived or are still trying to live there and here are unhappy. It doesn't matter. Today is Kosovo's turn, and we feel that tomorrow we are from Vojvodina's turn, and the day after that, who knows who. Let me say something about these conclusions. I personally didn't know which newspaper it was published in. I took the News, there wasn't, there wasn't any in the opposition press, and then I realized it was just in "Politics" and that's why I mentioned the circulation. Any conclusions that go towards solving the problem, reducing the problem in Kosovo, easing the people's suffering there, regardless of what religion, nation and everything else, supports the community in advance. But I don't think these conclusions are that. The number one conclusion says the only reason for the problem in Kosovo is Albanian separatism and terrorism. We agree that to a large extent there are very unfair behaviours by the Albanian minority in the work of separatism and terrorism, but we think there are many consequences. You're only talking about the causes, and the consequences are ten years of unhappiness in the province. I expected that there would be practical solutions in these conclusions, that we would hear who, who, why, how and when they negotiate, who are the negotiating sides, what are the negotiating platforms, what are Albanians looking for, and what Serbian negotiators cannot meet, are there any dots? Why do we have the conclusions we could read in the press? Not only on Saturday, but all these days, on all the radio stations, on all the TVs, the same thing is spinning, which is that Serbia is for equality, for humanity, that everyone will be very nice and wonderful and that we will soon agree on everything. Your relationship with Kosovo offends us, too, especially the Serbs who are in the majority, but also the Hungarians, the Slovaks, the Croats, the Romanians, the Russian, the Ukrainians, the Roma and the others. Now that you're in trouble, you're ready to give Kosovo everything that you've been asking me in Vojvodina for years of beautiful, civilized and culturally asking for, which you don't think of giving us, as it did yesterday, didn't occur to you to give Kosovo either. I know this doesn't mean anything to you today, but I also know that as in the case of Kosovo tomorrow it will mean a lot to you. I'm not actually talking to you today. I'm talking to reasonable citizens in Serbia. As the people say, only to save the soul. You will not solve anything like this until you realize that you are not addressing the issue of Kosovo today, but Serbia. Serbia is sick, and there is only one of the acute patients in Kosovo. The way you do it will be Kosovo today, and tomorrow Vojvodina, Sandzak, Shumadi, Sword and more. Already today, this needs to be resolved together, with one project, and the project must have its basic mark, which is the democratisation and decentralisation of Serbia. On this day, a remarkable jubilee is mentioned here on your part. On everyone's name, on every other occasion, you mention the 1990 Constitution, that Serbia was in three parts, and now it's whole, etc. All those slogans we remember. We all know that in 1990, Serbia actually broke into the legal political system of the then state, the SFR of Yugoslavia. I don't amnest the rest of the republics at all. The rest of the republics went that way and some went far further. You have abolished the local self-government with this constitution, and since autonomy in the provinces, it remains just a name. The question is, what do we do now? There is the current problem of the Serbian state, including Kosovo. You have one constitution that is hard, one of the hardest in Europe. It takes a two-thirds majority to change it, a referendum, etc. In the current constitutional solutions, you will not solve the Kosovo issue, and I therefore suggest that you solve Serbia's problem in full. Serbia must be democraticised and decentralised. The way you understand Serbia and its statehood is not the way everyone in this country understands it. It's a break-in moment now. If it breaks to your side, I'm afraid you'll lose Serbia, and we'll lose Serbia, and that's the problem. We don't have enough strength and I'll give you that, but our children will tell you in a nice Serbian language what they think of you when the time comes. Albanian children won't do it, and you know why? Because they don't know the language, because when all of this started they were seven or eight years old, and now they have nineteen - twenty and a simple language they don't know. They won't be able to tell you anything because they don't know the language. I've got so much power to warn you, the public opinion doesn't think everyone thinks the way the great majority of you here thinks. As far as the proposal is concerned, gentlemen, for, I must now read: "temporary authority", meaning Executive Council, Mr. Minister Angelkovic has been proposed? Am I right? He's the current sports minister today. Is it true? I ask the question - will he continue his activities in Kosovo? I think there's an exceptional field of field to develop shooting, there's personnel on one side and the other, and we can achieve extremely good results. I believe that was your reason. Am I right? Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u828	There is the word of the Messenger of the people Ibro Vait, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Blessed be Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u829	Mr. President, government members, fellow MPs, the Republic of Serbia as a civil state declared in its highest act, has its constitutional, legal and political orientation to affirm citizens, all differences offered by national communities in the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. The Republic of Serbia has put its readiness to achieve national equality into its constitutional foundations and has shown and continues to show political will, its engagement that national minority rights issues can always be discussed and always improved and improved. Many countries, which talk about civil freedoms and human rights, do not have basic documents or words about national minorities, and many are often defined as national states. Serbia is also based on its national equality policy that one third of Serbia's population is not Serbian and is a bridge of understanding and strengthening trust between peoples and national communities, among people, understanding and respect for culture, language, customs, religion and the like. Such a policy requires and understands and respects the integrity and territorial sovereignty of the Republic of Yugoslavia. That's exactly what she deserves. More than 100,000 Muslims live in Kosovo and Metohija, around 150,000 Roma, Turks, Gorans and others. These national minorities and communities must be even more affirmed by such political orientation as the Republic of Serbia, they were on the verge of loss of identity. Albania's national minority, poisoned for years by separatist ideology and arbitrary exclusion from the political life of the Republic of Serbia, has allowed leaders, who could not agree with each other, who eventually left the Albanian people as a political object of one policy based on the killing, kidnapping, massacre, pressures of people and others. So they tried to create an illusion of creating an independent state. So terrorism and armed gangs are the most extreme form of a distorted ideology of an independent and independent state, in the area of the spiritual, cultural and historical outcome of the sovereign state of Serbia and Yugoslavia. It is about the ideology that the most responsible leaders of the Albanian political parties in their vision of such a state, neither mention nor count on a large number of national communities living in Kosovo and Metohija, almost from the beginning. It is our obligation that is both greater and more responsible. We must defend the Republic of Serbia with all means, we must respect it and love it even more, be on its defender whenever necessary. Love is based on the interest that the state is ready to protect, defend, affirm all its citizens who recognize the state. Only in such a country can national minorities experience full affirmation. After all, the state of Serbia is still ready for dialogue and overcoming the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija peacefully and by agreement, nothing less than what was initially offered. All national communities must be involved in the creation of state authorities and institutions in Kosovo and Metohija without any majorisation and without any improvisation. It is necessary to create the same and the same conditions, all possibilities of living together and the work of all peoples, all peoples and national minorities. It is the only perspective of Kosovo and Metohija, the only perspective of the Albanian people and all others living in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u830	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Blažić Milovan; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nenoslav Rajevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u831	Ladies and gentlemen, iredentism and separatism, terrorism in Kosovo has not occurred in recent times, nor can we speak and justify it with some kind of disrespect for human rights or the rights of national minorities. Iredentism, separatism has deeper historical roots and has one historical gene. It occurs during the period of titoism, it is produced in a period of ideology that can also be called symbiosis, symbiosis of Ustasha and symbiosis of cometary ideology. At the time in Kosovo, there is a systematic problem for the Serb population, and Serbs who have submitted their biggest sacrifices to create such Yugoslavia now come to the position of inequality, to be persecuted by constant pressures, to remove from work, to systematically remove Serbian personnel, and all of this leads to one situation, that a nation in its cradle cannot be on its own. It's actually a genealogy and creation, why it's come to these present times. The conditions when the Serb people came to their senses, the blows they've been taking for decades, in conditions where they wanted to be only equal in their territory, the influences of separatists in Kosovo arise. Separatists and irredentists in Kosovo also acted in conditions when Enver Hodgina Albania, the bunker camp was a promised country for them, and at the time they tried to tear Serbia apart and join Albania, creating a great Albania. Therefore, this is the true historical genealogy and this is the truth of the current developments in Kosovo and Metohija. A special story of how international factors today view the problem, international factors of chauvinistic lies proclaim the truth, terrorism for democracy, and the victim is declared a criminal. Those who have killed us in two world wars, those who have blacked out many countries and peoples, today come out of the position of some of their democracies and threaten to bomb us just because we want to exercise rights as they do, as their vassals do. The people who are the victim's size, the Serbian people, for the highest human achievements, and can be classified in the world's highest scales, are now in a position to deny him the basic right to be himself in his territory. The Serbian people showed in a referendum a high degree of self-awareness, national, spiritual, and the Serbian people also showed that they were mature and that there would be no discussion and trade with their territories. However, he again shows high degree and humanity, in the conditions of a severe economic crisis, detached from his mouth practically wants to help all those homeless people who have lost their homes due to the influence of terrorists in Kosovo. We are again offering dialogue to the Albanian national minority. The dialogue is certainly necessary and will lead to a solution to the overall crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. Only once can there never be a speech, and we will never talk about one, which is that Kosovo can be secededed from Serbia. Kosovo will always be Serbia, always has been and will remain that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u832	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Ninoslav Rajevic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Leposava Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u833	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we're here today and we're unique in the view that we have to defend Cosmet and Serbia. I bring, however, a message from our people from Cosmet that we had to meet much earlier and that we had to act much faster and more decisively. The moment Albanian terrorists announced that they had formed some kind of a liberating army of their own, when they rewritten Cosmet with the maps of the great Albania, when they killed our first soldier and police officer, when they began kidnapping and killing civilians -- all of our three parliaments, Serbian, Montenegrin and federal, had to meet and adopt emergency measures to defend the state. It was meant to declare a state of emergency wherever terrorists are running and move on them with all the forces of our country, the state's defense, as proposed by the SPO. We were obliged to ignore all warnings from abroad that we should not use excessive force against terrorists. Imagine some bandits starting with baseball bats killing American citizens, police, soldiers, asking for a break from the United States. Turns out the U.S. Army and the police would be obliged to fight these terrorists exclusively with baseball bats to avoid excessive use of force. We should have hit the Albanian Nazis by force and called on NATO military observers, world diplomats, media, and on the spot to follow the action of our forces, to make sure that we are not persecuting unarmed civilians, but only terrorists, to shell out only houses that have been turned into their bunkers, and that terrorists, not our forces, are persecuting civilian populations in the woods and using civilians as hostages, as a living shield when fighting our units. This is how we're supposed to do it, and this is how we're gonna have to do it if it turns out that the terrorist rebellion against our country isn't broken yet. By upholding international civil and war law, we must work as fast as we can. We're dealing with an enemy who doesn't run away from any crime or any fraud or pranks. Albanian cages and ballistics yesterday, Albanian terrorists today were also other world champions in crimes, fraud and hoaxes. Today, they do not allow many civilians to leave the woods and return to their homes, although the state of Serbia has persistently urged them to return and guarantee security for all who have not committed a crime and all kinds of humanitarian aid. These non-humans want to carve out a humanitarian disaster in hopes of provoking NATO's military campaign on Serbia. There is no humanitarian disaster of Albanian civilians in Kosovo and Metohija. There are only theatre humanitarian disasters, and we have to explain it to the world. Why did Mrs Sadako Ogata not be taken these days to the village of Ada, next to the Belačevac mine, to see that individuals of Albanians from their village with sacks of flour and sugar, which were divided by the free state of Serbia, made up the clumps behind which they shot our police in the back. Supporting the proposed conclusions of the Serbian government, I believe they must be translated most urgently into a state platform on Cosmet, with particular emphasis on the universal protection and security of the Serbian people in the province, and on all others who recognise and accept Serbia as their country. Albania is close and whoever wants to live in Albania doesn't have to walk much. There will never be an Albanian state in Serbia. We must work quickly, wisely and responsibly, because by defending Kosovo and Metohija, we are not only defending the foundations of Serbia, but also faith, culture, history and national values of all Serbs in the world. On behalf of the SP, I give recognition to the Gorans, Muslims, Turks and all Albanians in Cosmet, who fought alongside Serbs against major Albanian terrorism, hatred, crime and disaster. We are with them for every agreement and for guaranteeing all their and their individual and national rights. With those who shoot Serbia and those who publicly declare their political goal to create an Albanian state, or a republic in Serbia, there is nothing to negotiate, because we will not negotiate with anyone about breaking Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u834	Thank you. There is a word from the People's Messenger, Leposava Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u835	Dear Prime Minister, dear fellow MPs, terrorist activities in Kosovo and Metohija, on the one hand, have increased the health needs of the population and made it difficult to implement healthcare. On the other hand, the unfavourable impact on the country's economy has reduced the possibility of alimony of increased health needs. Faced with such difficulties, the health ministry has brought in a number of additional operational measures aimed at maintaining the level of health care. The measures mainly consist of the redistribution of material, human resources, technological and other resources and have so far proved to be effective. For the assessment of the security and implementation of health care in Kosovo and Metohija, in the period January - September 1998, it is particularly important to point out that the health status of the population, measured by normal indicators, and in apparently worse security and economic conditions, has been maintained at the level of health in previous years. It should also point out that these previous years have also been achieved by redistributing resources from across the country and that it has been assessed as progress by international factors. During the implementation of the health care measures, unfortunately, and the work that is essentially a fully civilizational and humanitarian fluid was the scene of political manipulation and hypocrisy. The illustrations, for example, children of Albanian nationality, including an epidemic of polio, which spread from Albania in 1995, despite the fact that the Republic of Serbia has been providing all the time for regular vaccination, were covered by a three-year programme for the eradication of this serious disease. As it is this year's third year of implementation of this programme, the Serbian Ministry of Health decided to carry out this activity during April and May, based on insight into the epidemiological situation, despite the assessment that its implementation is impossible, for security reasons. Those whose assistance we needed, especially because of the social motivation of Albanian citizens, have expressed a large reserve, which is likely from the knowledge that terrorist activities will be escalated. The Albanian-language information funds, which are over 50 in Kosovo and Metohija, implemented an inappropriate campaign against vaccination. Even so, both cycles of vaccination have succeeded. Is it possible to believe that those who are against the health care of children of a population group are also representatives of authentic interests and of the same population group? There is no respectable political goal, which is against child health. It is not the owners of the Albanian people from Kosovo and Metohija for the first time to manipulate children for political purposes. All we can think of is one-national poisoning in the '80s, which has been proven to be nonsense internationally. The same ones have advised you now that children do not respond to the call for vaccination. In April and May, I was confused by the attitude of some international humanitarian organisations, and now I'm not. I'm not with a reason why they obviously have other goals, not just those their names speak for and what they verbally advocate. Almost everyone defends the Albanian people from Kosovo and Metohija from the state of Serbia, and the people from the state are not even attacked. On the contrary, the state of Serbia is taking everything in human power and helping to make the adverse consequences of terrorist activities as little as possible. So, they are not defended by terrorists, who are driving them out of their houses and villages, or using them as a living shield in conflict with the legal authorities of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia, to defend them, I guess, from those who have been killed before, and then burned women, children and old people, whose terrible fate is not interested in the world, because they had the misfortune to be born as Serbs or to be loyal citizens of the state of Serbia. They're doing everything possible to bring about a humanitarian disaster, but it doesn't come from the great efforts of the state to normalize life, despite all the helpers. The health ministry and the health service of the Republic of Serbia in 1995 participated in accepting and providing about 200,000 refugees from Krajina in the course of 10 days, and did not allow any disaster. The situation was not assessed by the international public as a threatening humanitarian disaster, nor was it taking any action against those who caused the exodus. And now the international public behaves similarly because they do not recognize the causes of the situation in Cosmet, which they call a threatening humanitarian disaster. The perpetrators of such a situation are terrorists, who call themselves KLA and their terrorist activity, and victims are citizens of Serbia and Serbia's state as a whole. When the victim is found guilty, because he defends himself, then any conclusion can be made. It can be concluded that it is dangerous for the state of Serbia to defend its people and its territory. It can be concluded that it is dangerous for the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia to be equal members of the international community, as it will be a very bad example for some other countries, which will sooner or later be hit by a new world order, and which may also come to mind to defend their territory and protect their people. I have always been proud to belong to a people who in all their history have found ways to protect themselves from others and others. The proof that we had the right measure is the fact that over 30% of citizens of 26 other nationalities live in my country. I, as a citizen of this country, a member of the JUL, a member of this government and an MP of this assembly, recognize all the efforts around me aimed at overcoming international, interfaith and all the other conflicts, in the fight for a better tomorrow, and therefore I believe that we will endure and win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u836	There is a word from MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that the Niš City Assembly failed last week to take a single state and supranational stance on developments in Kosovo and Metohija. The SPO has done everything to prevent a painful and ugly difficulty over the proposed draft joint declaration, but some committees did not understand that the defence of Kosovo cannot be the merits of their party, and others, on behalf of their party uniforms, realised that there should be no opposition, did not realise that there should be no opposition to Serbia or Kosovo. We are forced by the SPS to, by supporting the state of Serbia and the state that defends our Kosovo, issue three months of protests and walkers. In front of Serbia and all the walkers, I say we have demonstrated not against Serbia, but in favour of Serbia's well-being and we despise all those who want to make their sick dreams come true through the ruins in Kosovo and on the wings of the German bombers, who did the same in World War II. As for the walker, no one should take them, and they should not be called upon. They were all from the SPO and are once again ready to defend our Kosovo as one. Because Kosovo is an all-Serbian and all-state issue. Kosovo is the pain and pride of all Serbs, because we were all born in Kosovo and we all carry it in our hearts. There is no river, no stream without spring, no grass and no roots. The source and root of the Serbian state, the nation - You think it's funny, and you're from Kosovo. [[the ambassador from the bench laughs]] These original roots of the Serbian state and nation, faith, spirituality and our people's epic, which is worthy of Iliada and Odyssey, are in Kosovo and Metohija. Without that source and root, the Serbian people would become a river without a source, and a river without a spring must dry. The most pressing obligation of all in Serbia, and I would say all Serbs in the world are defending Kosovo. In our press are the bombers of statements by some Serbian congresses in America and some Serbian rich people, businessmen around the world, that they suffer very much because of Kosovo and that is why they will establish a new Serbian party, a party with a Serbian omen. Gentlemen and brothers, if you suffer from the suffering of Kosovo, help make these torments less. How can you help? Collect help, which can be eaten, put on and put on and send it to Kosovo. At the same time, you are obliged to introduce the great and powerful world in which you live to the truth about Kosovo and Metohija. This is what Serbia is asking of you today, and not only of you, who are in the distance, but of us who are here and we do it every day. Times are hard, the hardest in post-war history and are similar to those when Lazarus took an oath to Kosovo. One last thing in the end... (One vote: When were you in Kosovo? I'll tell you when I was in Kosovo and I'll go again. The Serbian Renewal Movement requires that any misuse of humanitarian aid that goes to Kosovo be prevented. Also, we're looking for the strictest control and the most severe punishment for those who want to sew on human solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you. And to answer, in order not to report for replication, I was in Kosovo, helping the University of Kosovo and how. Next week, a team of the Niš City Assembly, despite what I was saying at the beginning, is going to Kosovo, carrying help, primarily composed of SPO councilors. Second, the City Assembly, more specifically, has already done much to help a militiaman from the village of Hum near Nis, who was recently killed and recently born of a son 15 days ago. He will get an apartment from the Nish City Assembly, primarily thanks to the SPO initiative. We also helped a great Serbian hero, an officer of the 63rd parachute unit, his family. You know how tragically he died recently in Kosovo. So we do a lot, we do a lot, but we don't use it for our advertising, we help Serbia overcome these problems and come uniquely out of this big crisis, so that we can integrate into Europe, into the world, and finally that world realizes that we belong there. And that's where we belong years ago. Serbia was one of the leading nations, not only in Europe, but also in the world. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u838	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zivorad Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u839	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are happy countries where a citizen once in his century has or has no obligation to defend them. In this Serbia, every generation has repeatedly defended its country and at least once defended Kosovo and Metohija. It is not true that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija has arisen and developed over the past ten years. In 1946, my late father chased ballistics in Kosovo and took arms in the same way as the Serbian police do today. Perhaps there was a problem because Kosovo and Metohija were not discussed in the Serbian Parliament. The assembly's meeting in eight months has already occupied the thematically and resolves the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. This assembly cannot be objected to not being interested in the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. We have formed a government of three major political parties, the Government of People's Unity, which has set itself three priorities: the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against crime and the fight for economic reform. Politically up until then, opposing political parties met. They're fiercely opposed. Our conflicts were on the verge of existence, on the verge of the personal survival of some of us. But Kosovo and Metohija reconciled passion. Today I see in the Assembly that it has spread to another major political party. Today, only those who do not have political hearing do not feel that all Serbian citizens and all Serbs want to see us this complicated, when we decide what the fate of Kosovo and Metohija will look like. We are not prophets, as the fate of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved, the fate of the Vojvodina, and of the Raška area, and of the Shumadija and Pomorava, and of the Timoko region and of every rate of the Serbian country will be resolved. As a member of the government, I first came across a question that I couldn't answer in early April of this year, when a certain Mr. S., I don't speak my last name because today his sister could probably have major problems, asked me to take him in and try to help him find a sister, who was kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija. I knew her fate was most likely terrible and that she didn't have any help. She fell into the hands of the greatest bandits on earth. Since then, that number has climbed a horrifying few hundred people. Since then 94 police officers, 23 soldiers, hundreds of civilians have died. And they're all innocent victims. There's no separation to police, soldiers and innocent victims. All those who killed terrorists in this Serbia are innocent victims. No police officer bears any blame for heading to Kosovo and Metohija to defend the country against terrorism. We need internal harmony, we need this harmony in relationships, to solve this problem to the end. Why is that necessary? Because of the external pressures, ladies and gentlemen. Because of those who here in the country continue to be traitors and do not hide their behavior. Because of those who are mercenaries of foreign forces, they show it in almost all independent media. Let all young journalists, who work for so-called independent media, pay them all to America, Germany, France, England, Italy and other major forces and pay them all to work against Serbia. Let them think about it when they write against Serbia and write against their people. Who's threatening us? President of the United States. The one who's crying in front of the cameras because his wife and daughter are gonna find out that he's been doing perverted acts on an American girl. He can spread tons of bombs at every rate of the globe, but he can't justify the actions that he now wants to punish an entire nation for his behavior. Serbia does not care about America, Serbia cares about Serbia. Serbia wants everyone to let it take care of Serbia. As a political party, we have sent a letter to representatives of the Western states, which have embassies in Belgrade, which cited documents by international organisations on the rights of religious, national and other minorities and documents of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We have asked them to point out the mistakes of our legislation, to show us where we have not provided the rights, what we have denied to the minority and what we can build on in the legislation. No one's answered about it. Everybody's just threatening us, everybody's rattling around with guns, even some neighboring countries. We find out that someone has offered two planes, someone all three to attack Serbia one day when the attack occurs. Keep our neighbors calm. As for Serbia, all countries neighbouring the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Albania - are free to abolish the army. Never will any armed Serbian citizen cross Serbia's state border to attack the neighbouring country. That's not how we build relationships with our neighbors or our neighbors. This is about fighting terrorism. The first sentence of the report submitted by the Prime Minister and the proposal for our conclusions is absolutely clear and unequivocal. This is about terrorism and the consequences of terrorist acts. The whole world defines terrorism in two sentences. These are people who are not above anything, who, beyond all laws, achieve their goals by armed combat, by fighting against the state in which they live. There is no need to prove that we have a problem with terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. It's an axiom. There's nothing to prove. There are gangs that have been raped so much that they've even formed barracks of their so-called barracks. Kosovo Liberation Army. Who were they raising to the uprising? Farmers in remote areas, in rural areas, and they sit in Pristina waiting for the results of the terrorist struggle. They don't give a shit how many Shipster kids are gonna die fighting with the police! I once, truly, had a heavy heart, but realizing what the task was, I sat in the rooms of Rugovina's party and talked to Albanians. I spoke to bold and passionate people who then, estimating the strength and power of terrorists, set for Serbia unacceptable conditions. But the delegation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Professor Ratko Markovic, was not only unique, I imagine you have seen that in these six months there have been no leaps in any area where the government acted, but was clear and determined and said: Here you are, gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Read it carefully. You're looking for everything that's written in that Constitution. You're not looking for a single sentence that doesn't exist in the Constitution. We won't give it to you. We're tons of power and we have no right to do that. They thought the uprising would expand, the planned Kosovo and Metohija, would not allow Serbia to defend Kosovo and Metohija as it has defended in the past few months. We've had a lot of casualties. Many ask what and how and how. The threats are terrible. We are reminded by our victims, by civilians, by armies, by helpless mothers, by children left behind by their fathers, that we must no longer give up. The pressures are terrible. But we've been putting up with it for eight years. We haven't looked forward to any business success in eight years. For eight years, our children have not lived like other children in the world. But we just have to hold on. We don't have another time. Anyone who thinks anything in Kosovo and Metohija can get, except what all citizens in their countries in the world have, if they think anything more should be given to Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, it does not belong to this country or to this people. This country has traitors of the state and traitors of the people. Unfortunately, there are Serbs who have betrayed both the people and the state. So far they're in the minority. There'll never be more of them. This is one historic moment. It seems to me, for the second time in the century, Serbia is deciding what to do and what to do. If she was able to put together politically incompatible, why couldn't she put together neighbors who are all extremely concerned, but they all have the same goal. We don't have another time. As we represent the citizens of Serbia in this assembly and as we represent them in the Serbian government, we will not solve Kosovo and Metohija in any other way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u840	There's a word from MP Zivorad Djordjevic. Let MP Zeljko Simic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u841	Dear President, honourable MPs, I deeply believe that history and this time will remember the great victory of our people in the fight for freedom, independence, sovereignty and national dignity, in the hard, bold and successful fight against crime and violence of Albanian terrorists in Cosmet. Maybe at this point we're not aware of what we've done. But these and future generations, and a normal part of the world, if not today, and tomorrow, will properly assess our contribution to the defence of man's rights to life, the right to his country's freedom, the right to his wealth. These most sacred rights of every man and every nation, the leaders of the world, must be reduced exclusively to the obligation of man and nation to obey the so-called so-called. A new world order. It is an unprecedented farce and cynicism that the world is subdued, in the name of human rights, and that human rights are reduced to the obligation of obedience so-called. A new world order. We rightly stress our desire and the need to engage in worldly flows, in that part of the international community that is the feather of democratic, technological, economic and spiritual development. We're not against this international community. We don't defy her, we want to join her with all our abilities, learn from her experiences and offer her our skills. Unfortunately, this part of the international community, however numerous, will push the margins of world events. Today, the small part of the international community is being imposed on the world, which by an unprecedented advance and bribery of vassals around the world wants to master the world, inflicting disaster, suffering and destruction on it. This part of the world community is characterized by the leader of the world's most powerful force, which makes decisions about the lives and deaths of millions of people and peoples at the same time as a paw hangs around his fly. This part of the world community or the new world order is a great tragedy, in which Mr. Bill will fall off the world throne, not because of responsibility for the misery of millions of people and peoples around the world, but precisely because of the mentioned interference around the pike mentioned. How long will the innocent part of the world fear the fascist huffiness of some Gensher, Kinkel, of the pathological needs of Mr. Rio, who keeps saying in our nerves, always from choice to choice? Is this the international community, in which only by falling on its knees and selling land and conscience can we pardon it, to accept us, that by caressing us as lambs, it takes everything we have? Is this some new international community decorated in the United Nations, today the powerless and sad family that exists, mainly because of the advocating of the violence of the world's boulders and to confirm the legitimacy of a new and unpublished conquest of everything? It's this international community that, less or less, has nurtured terrorists and given them weapons. It is the international community or that part of the international community that some and these speakers are calling for help. Such an invitation will one day be to cover foreign forces for military intervention, as the call comes from legal deputies, legal parties or media. That part of the international community is the most direct instigator of Albanian terrorism. With the help of NATO's gendarmes, mujahedin and the chargers of Islamic fundamentalism, descendants of the Nazi spirit, with the cheap services of local vases, Cosmet was flooded with terrorists. Anyone who doesn't realize it or doesn't understand it because of lack of intelligence or because of political acuity has vision problems, and first of all, there will be such blindness, of course, in a solid currency. Convince them that the Serbian leadership is to blame for the disintegration of Yugoslavia and terrorism in Cosmet, it is pointless how pointless and their thesis is. The world's hiducia, so-called. The new world order was successfully included here. independent media offering her their own vasal services and more than expected of them. I don't want to list them, because I can accidentally abandon someone, but these are the media who, for a profile, so to speak of their editorial policies directly and directly receive from abroad. That's why they can and must announce daily bombings, new sanctions, our economic collapse, the amount and types of engines already included on the bombers, which so prepared can take off at any moment, all in an effort to psychologically beat this people, to do worse and scarier than the sanctions, Mr. Riye, or especially Miss Levinski. According to this independent media gendarme, Albanian terrorists are time guerrillas, hours of poor civilians, hours are a liberating army. That's why our police, in their opinion, are very rude and imagine, instead of blanks, they use combat ammunition, they all level with the ground, and our army, believe it or not, is walking uninterruptedly in our villages, fields and forests along the long border, scaring those poor terrorists and obstructing their freedom to cross borders and carry weapons, even from Albania, so that their youth will play war and shoot fear of this brutal army and police. The work, therefore, is an overall race that will make an independent media gendarme faster, more ruthless and more horrifying to announce some desirable possible horror. Who's going to scare this people more? Who more will cause trauma, who, by increasing the threat of sick minds, will cause a greater number of nervous breakdowns. It's not news to them that the terrorists killed five cops or soldiers, but it is that the Rie's bombers are about to take off, because they're hoping that more of our people will get killed, either by bombs or by nerve detachment. That's what their bosses expect. They're paid for something like that. That's fair enough, for someone who's lost forever is political. The Yugoslav left supports our government's and President Milosevic's efforts to bring political solutions to the Kosovo problem. The Yugoslav left struggled for peaceful and peaceful solutions, for the co-existence of all peoples and peoples, at a time when it was the greatest heresy, so it is a danger to talk about equality, peace and Yugoslavia. It is our moral and political right and obligation to follow such a policy today. I believe that with this policy we will contribute to the peaceful and happier lives of all citizens in Cosmet, Serbia and Yugoslavia. I believe we will not be ashamed of future generations because of all this.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u842	There is a word from MP Zeljko Simic, and let the Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u843	Dear Mr. President, I fully accept Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic's exposés and the proposal for conclusions that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent to the National Assembly for adoption, as it is about a discreet, objective, comprehensive and democratic document, which resolutely reflects all the complexity of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's political reality today and which paves the way for a peaceful solution to all problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Every political and responsible individual must be clear that today we live in one breaky and for Serbia in many fateful times, a time in which historical awareness of the need to defend the country, its democratic fluids and all its citizens must have absolute advantage over individual party interests. This unity is not an expression of anyone's political will, this unity is not a fruit of anyone's imposition, this unity imposes a historic moment, and we citizens have been given the right to sit in this Parliament and decide fate, we must be at the height of that historic moment. Serbia is internally dangerously attacked by Albanian separatism that culminated in terrorist crimes and genocide and which was generously supported by false writings so-called "false". independent press, which is actually authoritarian and financially dependent on foreign power centers. Their ordered texts on the alleged excessive use of force, on the alleged threat of humanitarian disaster, on the pious dramatic increase of the number of displaced and unsettled persons, these from foreign languages translated texts on the near capitulation and disaster of the country and the overall activity of so-called. The independent media is a fair betrayal of the country. On the other hand, Serbia has also been attacked outside by inciting violence against innocent citizens of Serbia and its legal institutions, but the more difficult and dangerous it has been attacked by a repressive, non-democracy and non-precise policy of a part of the international community, which, when it comes to far and continuously, serves the arguments of force rather than respecting the power of arguments and political facts. Not to mention how that part of the international community, which unspeakably bowed to one force, whose interests became the measure of all international decisions, if not the measure of all things, gave up the need to return our country to Europe and the world in a tolerated tone and through equal dialogue, to reintegrate it into all important political, economic and technical and technological flows and institutions to which we belong. Instead, Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are exposed to severe pressures, threats and blackmails that are unprecedented in the recent political history of the 20th century, as if Serbia is not known for its multinational, multi-confessional and multi-cultural structure, Europe is small. It is as if it is not known that Serbia, which is truly Europe in small, sees its great advantages in this multiplicity, not its major shortcomings. It is as if Serbia is not known to be a state of citizens, which it does not share on any basis, but through its democratic institutions it encourages them to protect, nurture and develop their national personalities, their ethnic specificities. It is as if Serbia does not know that it allows all national minorities, including Albanian minorities, to enrich their language, letter, tradition, culture and customs in an uninterrupted and versatile manner. It is as if Serbia is not known to all loyal citizens as a natural birthplace and a place of rest from all the troubles of the world. You know that. It's all very well known. Like all European and democratically developed countries in the world, Serbia defends itself in its territory by legal and legitimate means against Albanian terrorism, which has criminally restored its memory of the dark practice of fascist genocides. Why do I say legal and legitimate? By means of legal means because it has its foothold in our and internationally positive legal regulations, and legal because illegal use, force and violence against the civilian population, both Serbian and Albanian, and against members of other ethnic groups living in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as against police members, and the Yugoslav Army, are at risk of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. In fact, the integrity of her being. Instead of harshly condemning all forms of Albanian terrorism in Kosovo, instead of providing material, logistic and armed assistance at the heart of their criticism and dissatisfaction, the Republic of Albania, in which the angry civil war, which provides terrorists with material, logistic and armed assistance and which is the only one in the world to recognise the so-called Republic of Kosovo and maintain its so-called representation in Tirana. Instead of making this country an open warning and rebuking for meddling in the internal property of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, many international organisations, including the highest one, have made numerous declarations and decisions that have been directly surposed with all the basic United Nations resolutions concerning the fight against terrorism, and this latest Security Council resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which was otherwise referred to in President Marjanovic's exposé, represents in some way a sad and warning testimony that terrorism in the world today is selectively, not universally treated and qualified. What do I mean when I say that? If terrorist acts are reported against one major force, severe countermeasures are almost undermined, regardless of the means, goals and innocent victims. If terrorism with a fascist omen arises and erupts in its heat in one sovereign but of any force to an independent country, then the notion or phenomenon can be revitalised and talked about by two parties, about the conflict, as it literally writes in the last resolution, although between police and terrorists nowhere and can never be a sign of equality. Right at the moment when the authorities of our authorities, when the last efforts in countering and breaking up appear, the eradication of terrorism in Kosovo, which is of priority interest and when measures have been taken to improve the situation in this province, in the security, humanitarian and economic issues that are being manipulated, especially by foreign media, as well as those paid here in the country, are hypocritically urged by the authorities in the SRJ and the leadership of Kosovo Albanians to enter oral dialogue without preconditions. It is well known that our state delegation has long been prepared, and that dialogue has continued to escape or to be quite precise, in the true sense of that word -- the representatives of Kosovo Albanians boycott. That the truth is not so easily avoided, silenced or simply ignored, it is best to bear witness to the third part of this resolution's chapter; "it welcomes the current efforts aimed at such dialogue", but it is avoided to say that the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic and representatives of the Serbian authorities are the only ones responsible for the aforementioned efforts and for the shift made throughout the situation. Not to mention that when calling for a Moscow declaration, between President Milosevic and President Jeljeljinj, it deliberately overlooks that the cease-action of the Yugoslav Army's security body at the border between the two countries was conditioned by the suspension of terrorist acts. Forgetting the beginning of a resolution on the two sides in the conflict, the creators of the resolution only in chapter 6 "insist that the leadership of Kosovo Albanians condemns all terrorist actions", thus unequivocally showing a conflicting and profoundly unscrupulous attitude towards the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as terrorism in general. However, as President Marjanovic's exposé has shown very well, we remain extremely cooperative with all institutions, and someone in this room may wonder, and he wondered, why are we so persistently looking for a return to the world? By no arbitrary act, no political decree by Serbia and the SRJ can be essentially played by the modern world. With our vast human, creative potential, our democratic policy, our rich, cultural and spiritual tradition, our free spirit and democratic heritage, we are an unbreakable part of modern civilization, whether or not we want someone. That is why it is also natural to ask the international community to abolish all forms of economic, political and other blockades, double arches in the fight against terrorism and international relations and thus enable us to actively participate in modern, global, integration, political, cultural and other processes. The world must be aware of one fact. With the firmness of the democratic institutions of the system, the endurance of resistance to all sanctions and repressions, the desire for freedom and independence of the country, the equality of all citizens, regardless of their national, religious and other belongings, Serbia is today in a particularly unloved and hostile environment, where chaos, lawlessness, civil war, the only solid factor of stability in the Balkans and the entire region of Southeast Europe. That's why good reasons here are also pointed out that it is a factor that is not jeopardizing anyone in these areas, but it is a factor that the whole region can only stabilise. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, Mr. President, adopting a proposal for the conclusions of the Government of Serbia, adopting an act that is not defiant, but politically bold and dignified, we will show the world that we are open to any democratic, political dialogue, which will respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia and the SRJ, but that we are unwaveringly closed to all threats, blackmails and pressures, convinced that they directly lead to further instability, earthquakes and conflicts with far-reaching consequences. We know very well that one part of the international community and their media and our domestic, traitorous and mercenaries presses deliberately close their eyes before the restoration of the crematorium, mass shootings and other monstrous misdemeanors of Albanian terrorists and thus indirectly, and not only amnesty, but encourage them to continue their evil intentions to create a great Albania on the territory of not only our country. Criticisms and warnings are answered in the same way that a famous German responded when he was made comments that his ideas did not match the facts. So much worse by the facts, that's what he was saying. This incomprehensible, undemocratic and in its being deeply repressive behaviour of one part of the international community, so much worse by peace, security and political stability, not only in this region of Europe, but also in the entire international order, which would like to be built as a new world order, in which unfortunately there is no room for attributes -- democratic. There is no new world order unless it rests on love of truth as the greatest passion of man's mind, unless it rests on love of justice, as the most important element of human character. In Serbia, which failed to break into the country's legal constitutional position in 1989, or someone confused it with the payment system, so in this Serbian country, it was built in the late 1980s, in Serbia living together in peace and harmony, and living and living in many ethnic groups, because it is the only way that we all solidify our human intelligence and freely adopt what we are destined for by birth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u844	The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the MEP of the Federal Assembly, Dr Vojislav Seselj, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today the Government of People's Edition has submitted a report today on its six-month work on the plan to curb the most extreme aspects of Albanian terrorism and separatism in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian police and the Yugoslav military have succeeded in destroying major terrorist gangs and restoring control of the entire territory and all communications temporarily seized by terrorists, but remain cautious and at any moment ready to respond to possible terrorist relapses. During the course of the anti-terrorist fight, in which many victims fell both between police officers and officers and among civilians, the government of the People's Unity did not stop offering open dialogue to representatives of Albanian political parties. And there was no dialogue. It wasn't because the Cypriots expected someone else to solve the Kosovo-metohic problem on the outside and meet their interests and goals. Albanian national minorities are largely mistaken because they think they love them in the West. Well, perhaps, indeed, Americans, Germans and others love the Shipars when the Shipars hit the Serbs and shed blood, when they attack Serbia, its constitutional order, when they kill civilians, women and children, then the Americans and the Germans really love the Shipars. But when the Shiplars find themselves in their territory, they hate them the most. How much the Germans hate the Shipars when they come to Germany, not to mention other European peoples. What a collapsion there is in action. In one place, they love them very much, and in another they hate them terribly, even showing racist prejudice. Shipars in Kosovo and Metohija do not consider people in the right sense of words. They are considered merely a mere means, a tool to bring down Serbia, and that is why I no longer address the Germans or the Americans, I am speaking to the Shiptars, our citizens, to finally realize that Americans are ready to fight Serbia to the last Shiptar. The Americans claim that we've overused force by breaking up Ship's terrorism. There was no excessive use of force. We used just as much force as it took to destroy terrorism. No more or less. What did the Americans want? The lines of truce, demarcation lines, the lines of separation, to send peacekeeping troops, to interfere in a simple and easy way. And how did they overuse force when they bombed Libya? When did they destroy the drug factory in Sudan? At the time, they did not think to withdraw from the excessive use of force. They assume someone is guilty of something and punish them immediately. Based on suspicion, unproven, false, how it turns out when it comes to Libya and the Sudanese drug factory. The drug factory she was producing for Iraq on the orders of the United Nations. They're threatening us from the West for ethnic cleansing, they say -- we're doing ethnic cleansing. Who performed the largest ethnic cleansing in the Balkans? The Americans and their Balkan allies. In Croatia before 1991, according to official statistics, there were 700,000 Serbs and more than 300,000 Serbs who declared themselves Yugoslav. Where are those Serbs? They've been banished ruthlessly. Many killed with American help. US Ambassador to Zagreb Peter Galbrate himself stood in a Croatian-Statistic tank that killed Serb civilians, Serbian women and children. The TV cameras shot him. Where Americans helped directly the Croats of Serbs no longer exist, neither in Serbia's Dalmatia, Serbia's face, Kordun, Banija, Western Slavonia, and Serbs disappear from Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, with direct US support and assistance. Where are Serbs from Serbia's Drvar, Key, Petrovac, Glamoc, Sansko Mosta, where are Serbs from Serbia's Ilidja, Serbia's Vogosce, Serbia's Ilias and Serbia's coat of arms? They're out of business. They were expelled after the Americans bombed the Serb Beast Republic. Then they raised the pact for 50 years for one single reason, so that the loads of their deadly bombs could be dropped on Republika Srpska. And today the sakes of children are born, children with severe genetic disorders, because Americans used poor uranium. They experimented on the Serbian people. Now they're threatening to bomb us again. They're threatening military intervention. Their threats should be taken very seriously, but we must not be afraid. The threats are very high, and if they attack us, we'll have great casualties and enormous material damage. It's supposed to be clean with that. But we can't get out of this skin. We don't have a spare homeland. We must defend this one at all costs, no matter what they attack us, we must defend ourselves until the last. And let's be determined to let them know that we will defend ourselves. And it's not their goal to take away only Kosovo and Metohija. We'd like them to take both the Ra's area and the Duke's. It was not by any chance that several days ago, the current Prime Minister of Hungary publicly requested that the same status be provided for Vojvodina, which he believes the Americans will make for Kosovo and Metohija. So that's the noose that's tightening around our throat. They found Americans and a fifth column in our ranks. Fortunately, very few. Politically insignificant. They've found the right direction for a political obnoxiousness to serve their interests here. There were some examples of this bazaar that we unfortunately had the opportunity to hear today about this pay phone. The bazaar has also been deployed in some meaningless extra-parliamentary parties. Those parties, which are more insignificant, have more statements and more demands, and a little bit so they run from Belgrade to meet with Western diplomats. They're proud to hang around Western embassies all the time. There are also these quaslings in the media that claim to be independent. They take money from Americans and other Westerners, and independent ones. Who gives money out of love, except maybe in a whorehouse. There's no other place to give money just because someone's nice. Today, "Our fight", and various organizations, and then "Blic", and "The Voice of the Public", who knows what they're called and what they're all called, a whole series of these treasonous media broadcasts and a couple of times, "Studio B" twice "The Voice of America," then "Dece Great", then "France International", and "Bibbi" and what they call all those agents for the conduct of a special psychological-propaganda war. Who's stupid enough to form a whole radio station or a television station in a foreign language to broadcast a program without any interest? What's his interest? Political, subversive, subversive, and here they are proud of the Quislins, which continues to spread those elements of special psychological warfare. I can't tell if he's going to attack us or not, maybe he will, and maybe he won't, but our determination to defend ourselves by all means is one of the key elements of deterrence. If they're seriously planning to attack us, at least warn them to pull their Quislings in time, and their agents, Belgrade circles, the Hellsinian committees, black women, etc., that all the bulls in time crisscross it from Serbia, that they take it away, that they don't leave them here as hostages. We may not be able to reach every one of their planes, but that's why we're gonna grab those close to our hands. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the People's Unity continues to insist on holding dialogues with representatives of Albanian political parties. [[Applause]] We want Albanians to finally understand that this country can also be their homeland, and mother, if it is such an acceptance, that we have no national or religious prejudices, that the value of a citizen is measured only by how loyal he is to his country, how much he respects its Constitution and its laws, and nothing more. And no national minority has any reason to worry, if that's really how it behaves. But those who destroy our constitutional system can simply run out of anything. They must have realized that the West is only interested in the extent that they are willing to bleed for Western interests, because, indeed, that this West truly cares for Albanian civilians, for the Albanian national minority, then would "resolve the bag" to help them more effectively. Incomparably more money is spent on preparing armed acts or propaganda activities than on those who have lost their homes, and they have lost their homes primarily because terrorists have forced civilians to burn houses and force them, because it is planned to create something in Kosovo and Metohija such as the Markale market, such as Vasa Miskina Street, the Partizan cemetery, brewery or other places in Sarajevo, where Izetbegovic killed his citizens, his civilians, to be attributed to Serbs and to trigger Western fierce reactions against the Serb people and Republika Srpska. The plan was designed for both Kosovo and Metohija. In time, we saw it through, we managed to prevent its realization, and now only we are effectively helping these Albanian civilians, who have turned out to be the most common victims of the manipulation of major forces and Albanian terrorists, are we alone bringing daily aid to both food and construction materials. What our people would say from the West would stop in the eye. More costs have to come to all of their delegations, the whole bulument of spies and propagandists, than they have to bring in drugs for those people who need food and medicine most. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u846	There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, as last reported.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u847	Dear President, honourable MPs, today in the southern Serbian province all roads and villages are accessible to all, just as all the time has been on two-thirds of the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where there has been no acts of terrorist gangs. Serbia, the MUP, the Yugoslav Army, each in their part of the engagement, showed and proved professionalism, patriotism, on every task they performed. And then when they unblocked communications, so that all citizens could normally use them, and in search of civilians, who were abducted by terrorists, to Klecka, Glodjane, Bajgor, and when they had to guard the border against the attacks of terrorist gangs from the neighbouring country, where they trained and prepared to kill, just as when civilians who had left their villages, cared for, fed, helped them to return to their homes. They've always done it the best way, the most professional, the most human and the brave. Fighting terrorists, they were guarding civilians. The Albanian population of Albanian terrorists had only damage, and therefore they saw help and protection for themselves, for their family, for their villages. Most Albanians have convinced that the state of Serbia with all institutions has both wisdom and power, and a principled attitude to clearly separate terrorism and terrorists from one side, and Albanians as a national minority who wants to live in peace and develop their co-operation with others living in Kosovo and Metohija, on the other. The rights of members of national communities are not an empty story or mere political and legal solutions. She's being spent in life. That is why I will list only a few concrete examples, which confirm Serbia's firm commitment to national equality, the loss of the confidence of the Albanian people in the separatist policy, to strengthen confidence in the Republic of Serbia, which advocates a peaceful, equal and democratic solution to the Kosovo problem. First, voluntary handover of weapons and military equipment in the amount of 24 tonnes from only the 21st village of Djakovica Municipality, voluntary, members of the Serbian Army and members of the Yugoslav Army, is the best confirmation of trust in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, there are no displaced Albanian families under the clear sky. Quazi-humanitarians, who daily cruise our roads, could see the organisation of the return of Albanians to the villages of Bobaj, Boks, Nec, Batusha, Brovina, Kraljana, Hilje, Junik and many other places, as they could also see that they have not yet matured the conditions for returning Serbian families to their ancient fireplaces in the villages of Januš, Bitš, Ratić, Molić and others. Third, Albanians use their rights, which is guaranteed by Serbia. A number of examples confirm that. Only in Djakovica Municipality in the work of local authorities of self-government, in the municipality, were 520 persons employed, and 400 Albanians, in the Đakovica Health Centre, of 820, were seven hundred and eighty Albanians, directors of major businesses in Đakovica are Albanians. I took the example of Đakovica because the facts of the terrorists there were very severe, which is that the municipality has a large border belt towards Albania, but that is also the case in other parts of Cosmeta, which is about Serbia's principle policy and proof that a large part of the citizens of Albanian nationality benefit from the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia. It's our policy, and that's how it's gonna stay in the future. All this huge aid to Serbia, Cosmet, as well as the unity of citizens and political parties, which has proved today in connection with the government's measure of the Republic of Serbia, has made a huge contribution to destroying terrorist gangs, defending our territory and sovereignty. It's proof that we're capable of solving our own problems. Clear views, uncompromising defence of Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty and maximum respect for the human and civil rights of national minorities, living in Serbia, are values which, even today, when we defeated the terrorist Cosmet, remain as they have always been the basics of Serbia. This is the definition, I am convinced, and the vast majority of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, all with whom I have spoken in the past months, both those in areas where there have been no terrorist gangs, and those who have been displaced because of the terrorist's actions, in Gjilan, Mitrovica, Orahovac, Decan, and have pointed out that the state must destroy terrorists, provide security for citizens, and that they are interested in living in peace, with full equality and trust in Serbia's state authorities, that they can achieve it. This great confidence has been shown by citizens when they returned to their homes, who temporarily left because of the terrorist gangs' activities and on demand that the members of the MUP provide protection against the re-incurrence of terrorists into their villages. The government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, is working specifically to build that trust. These days, local authorities have formed over 80 local security departments, in which they are, of course, citizens living in these villages, or Albanians. The first experience suggests that this produced positive results. In addition to the obligation to provide peace, they, together with members of the MUP in municipalities, are working to organise supply, repair infrastructure in their cities and other issues related to the citizens' interest. The confidence, which is thus built up, is a good foundation and an indication that dialogue in the local environment can provide dialogue in the province for the benefit of the economic and social development of this part of Serbia. We will not allow Kosovo and Metohija to repeat Klecka, Glodjane, Ratish and similar places where terrorists committed crimes against innocent civilians. Unfortunately, they killed, abused and raped women and children. In the Orahovac crime scene, terrorists raped their neighbour, a Serbian woman. The entire Albanian family, first father and son, and then mother and daughter, previously raped by Albanian terrorists, were tortured to death in Prizren. Only because they had Serbs for their friends. These are just some of the terrible examples of the terrorist gang's criminal faces. But the future of Cosmeta is only in life together, understanding, not violence and terror. People expect Serbia's assistance in Kosovo and Metohija, so we have done everything we can to provide them with regular supplies and materials to repair damaged facilities. By forming 15 humanitarian centres, we respond specifically to this request. Serbia does not share assistance on any national key, but if necessary. This seems not to be understood by many humanitarians from abroad, who, apart from the great fuss about some humanitarian disaster, instead of helping send a threat, and when they deliver it, share some of them with known national keys and at a time when their mouths are full of statements that people can't be shared on a national and religious basis. The humanitarian centres were formed by government and NGOs. They will continue to help those who need help, regardless of national and any other belongings. Any assistance to the humanitarian centres from any side that has come, but of course it has come well and united efforts, will be accepted and jointly distributed to those who need it. However, the real solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija will be achieved by launching economic potentials. It's in the interest of all citizens and priority in our engagement. Resuscitating production with full facilities in Kosovo and Metohija is the first obligation. To open new jobs, to stimulate the formation of new businesses, to connect the economy of Cosmet with the economy of Serbia and Yugoslavia in a way that will ensure greater work for the better tomorrow, the path that economic resources will be used to speed up the province's economic, cultural renaissance. It has been shown that decisive measures can be contained in both the gray economy and the smuggling and that there is room for real economic activities in Cosmet, which will be based on production, not speculation, what is the trade in drugs, weapons, bombs and the like. We will work organised to strengthen trust, international tolerance and understanding in Kosovo and Metohija. We will do so through the more up-to-date work of the authorities of self-government, by encouraging cultural institutions, as well as informational texts, which contribute to such policies, rather than propagating divisions, national impatience and extremism. With these measures, we must destroy the consciousness of secessionism, as we have destroyed its phenomenal forms, terrorism and violence. This awareness will change quickly, if we are determined to implement measures that will strengthen trust, provide equality that will move people to work, not conflicts and divisions, which will point them to the values of life in peace and unity, with great respect for the differences that existed and will exist, as they exist everywhere in the world. The government of the People's Unity will split in that direction, as it has been so far. In the same direction, media, political parties, intellectuals, all who want to help overcome this situation quickly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u848	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u849	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I am Shemsudin Kučević, MP in front of the Sandzak List - Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin. In this area of the Balkans, in particular Yugoslavia, we have been going through many difficult times in our history. Today, as ambassadors of the National Assembly, we are faced with a great test. This temptation is so much greater for the ruling coalition, or SPS - JUL, currently in power in this congregation. I, as a member of the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak and as an MP for the Sandzak List Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, will say a few things and give my contribution to the resolution of the overall crisis in the former Yugoslavia. We advocate, above all, that human and national rights are treated by the scope and content as being exposed and defined in the relevant UN documents, in the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Civil Rights Pact and the Declaration on Minority Rights and other international acts. We'll stand for their consistent application. We are in favour of establishing a lasting peace in the space of the former SFRY, for establishing interstate co-operation between the newly created states in the former state, as well as a proper solution to the status of all nations living in these countries. We are against war and against the use of force to impose political solutions. Our principle is dialogue, and that is the ongoing negotiations to achieve a fair solution. A fair and permanent resolution of the Yugoslav crisis can be achieved through negotiations between legitimate representatives of the people, by intervening the international community and by applying effective international mechanisms towards parties in the negotiation of the objective of realising the commitments adopted. In 4.11.1991, we accepted the principles of the Hague Convention as an acceptable and just model for the final solution to the Yugoslav crisis and the establishment of a fair and lasting peace in the area of the previous Yugoslavia. In that context, we have clearly defined our relationship to the state. We stand for the free and sovereign Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the inviolability of its borders, for the equality of citizens and of all peoples living in the territory of the SR of Yugoslavia and for the protection of the rights of national minorities according to the highest European and world standards. We don't consider any restrictions in that direction legitimate. That's our attitude, if anyone asks us. And despite these efforts to help us solve problems systematically, in principle, without strong words, after which, apart from pride and satisfaction, we will have nothing else to do, to be more explicit, let me use a comparative method. The report discusses the state's conflict with terrorists in Kosovo. There are no terrorists in Sandzak, and the state with its institutional solutions, i.e. By the frog's constitution, it endangered the constitutional and legal position of the Bosniak population in Sandzak on 27.4.1902. In the municipalities of Priboj and Pljevlja, mass persecutions of Bosniaks from homes and villages by the Yugoslav Army and armed units from its composition took place. Mass abductions of Bosniaks took place in Sandzak, i.e. in Severin, Bukovica and Strpc. They were burned down in another way by residential buildings owned by Bosniaks. Mass arrests of Bosniaks in Sandzak, physical abuse and unauthorized entry into Bosniak houses and physical abuse of parents in front of children and children in front of parents. The installed political processes in Novi Pazar, the White Field and the process of federal MP Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, 60,000 refugees and a huge number of displaced persons. Please, we estimate that this position of the Bosniak people in Sandzak and other parts of the SRJ is not acceptable and is still unsustainable. The attitude of state authorities towards the Bosniak people of Sandzak, according to their legitimate representatives, is not sustainable. If we look at a solution to the Kosovo crisis in part, from comfortable chairs and too hot assembly halls, not from the position of soldiers and their parents, with one of the 600 goals NATO plans to target, with the position of 230 thousand refugees from Kosovo, from the position of the average citizen, we will not reach a solution. I am afraid of being overly lyrical about the fates of Kosovo and this country, which we will not benefit from. Without pragmatic access and firm determination, that they will truly endure verbal promises, this government will not find a solution and a way out of the current crisis. I was intimidated by the threat of bombing, but I am even more intimidated by the discussions of MPs and by the passing of members of the SPS, JUL and the SRS, as their discussions in parliament call for military intervention. With full law, I am concerned and I expect, although in principle it always comes from the worst things, instead of this programme of government and these discussions that call for military intervention, I suggest that we adopt a programme of measures that will prevent military intervention and that: 1. Emergency suspension of armed actions in Kosovo and Metohija; 2. An urgent call to the international community to engage in solving all unresolved problems. On us, the political MPs of smaller parties, who serve here as decor to political parliamentaryism, are less responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-09-28-0.u850	Thank you. Are any of the people's messengers answering for a word? Nobody. ) I am concluding a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the report by the government of the Republic of Serbia on measures taken to normalise the situation in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, which has been submitted by Mirko Marjanovic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, on the current security and socio-economic situation in Kosovo and Metohija, with a proposal for a conclusion tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The vote was voted on by 225, against one, abstained from one, not two, a total of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes a report by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the measures taken to normalise the situation in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, which over the current security and socio-economic situation in Kosovo and Metohija was submitted by Mirko Marjanovic, president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to express myself and, I believe, your satisfaction with the complete unity of the national representatives in the National Assembly in the adoption of the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the conclusions. This shows the authenticity of the statements of the MPs with the will of the people. I would remind you that such a high degree of unity has been achieved in the recent declaration of the people in the referendum. This unity is the best guarantee that Serbia will continue on the path of affirming the fight for peace and equality of citizens, people and states. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON EDUCATION OF THE IMPLEMENTARY EXTERNAL AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COSOVA AND METOCHY You have been given the proposal for a decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. () Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding a unique search. I ask the MPs to, for the sake of the quorum's determination, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the interim executive council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. Press the corresponding key. 222, against two, abstained one, no two, a total of 227 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on the education of the interim executive council of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IMPLEMENTARY EXTERMINATION OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COSOV AND METOCHI You have been given the proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to appoint the president of the interim Executive Council of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. 215, against two, three abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 226 MPs voted. I agree that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to appoint the president of the interim Executive Council of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija to the majority of votes. Congratulations on your behalf and on behalf of the president of the interim body of the Executive Council of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija, MP Zoran Angelkovic. This session is over. [[Applause]]
