ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u449	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 130 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Duško Matković, Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Radet Svilar, Ljubomir Pesal and Velimir Bati Zivojinovic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented with the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 6 and 7 April 1998. Is there any objection to the record? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 6 and 7 April 1998. I conclude the vote: 133 votes against one, with no abstentions, did not vote 19, a total of 153 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 6 and 7 April. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Meanwhile, you have received a letter informing MP Tihomir Arsic of withdrawing from the procedure his draft law amending the Act on the independent performance of art or other works in the field of culture - item 6 of the proposed agenda. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Social Insurance Contributions Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Contributions. I conclude the vote: 133, against one, with seven abstentions, did not vote 26, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that following an urgent procedure, an act proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to settle certain issues relating to the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 1998. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, following an urgent procedure, a proposal proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Federal Assembly to settle certain issues relating to the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens. I conclude the vote: 143 MPs, against five, abstentions, did not vote 26, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We now move on to proposals for withdrawing certain points from the proposed agenda. On behalf of the New Democracy MP Zarko Jokanovic, on behalf of the parliamentary group, suggested that the draft agenda of this session should be withdrawn on the 2nd point -- a draft law on the university. Does MP MP Zarko Jokanovic, president of the New Democracy parliamentary group, want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Zarko Jokanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Democracy parliamentary group thinks that editing the problem of the functioning and work of the university is one of the most important areas, one of the most important jobs this assembly can and should do. However, the New Democracy parliamentary group also finds it difficult to pass many publicly expressed advocates of the universities themselves, numerous universities, scientific institutions, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and other significant institutions to postpone the law. The government and the National Assembly's task is not to deepen conflicts in society, but to reach consensus in broad consultation that will eliminate growing tensions and lead to the best solutions. The position of the most invaluable scientific workers and students cannot and should not be ignored. Unitary autonomy is certainly a civilizational achievement that we cannot and must not give up easily. That is why the New Democracy parliamentary group believes that, with little goodwill, it is possible to come up with a solution that would be in the interests of society, universities and founders. That is why we believe that it is celibate that this bill should be withdrawn, and that the government in co-operation with the representatives of the university offers a new proposal. Unfortunately, only yesterday the government held talks with students and representatives of the university. It could have been done much earlier, avoided various unwanted consequences and various interpretations, various fears, various fears, and various conflicts. We think it's possible to do it on general pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u451	Thank you. Does a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal tabled by MP Zarko Jokanovic on behalf of the New Democracy parliamentary group to withdraw from the draft agenda this session item 2: - a bill on university law. I conclude the vote: 42 MPs voted against 145, with no abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal by majority vote. Proposals to expand the agenda. 1. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that, within the first item of the proposed agenda, proposals for the resolution of judicial holders should also be considered, so that the first item of the agenda is - Selection and resolution of judicial holders. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal that the first item of the proposed agenda should also be discussed and proposals for the resolution of judicial holders, so that the first item of the agenda is - Selection and resolution of judicial officials. 159 against five, with one abstention, did not vote 27, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 2. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposed that the second item be the resignation of MP Dragan Todorovic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, MP Stevo Dragisic, want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put the motion of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group on the agenda of the session, second item, to place the resignation of MP Dragan Todorovic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The vote was 161 against seven, with five abstentions, not 19, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposals for changing the order of certain items of the agenda. 1. National MP Tomislav Markovic suggested that the eighth item of the proposed agenda - Proposals for a decision on amendments to the decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, be considered behind the first item of the agenda - the choice of holders of judicial functions. Does the promoter, MP Tomislav Markovic, want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Tomislav Markovic to consider the eighth item of the proposed agenda behind the first item of the agenda. 140, against 27, abstentioned 11, did not vote 15, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts, committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. 153, against 20, with seven abstentions, did not vote 14, 194 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, in general. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Selection and resolution of judicial authorities, 2. The resignation of MP Dragan Todorovic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposals for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a Law on the University, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia's 1997 Budget, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a decision on the final budget of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija for 1997, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conditions for the provision of goods transport, the provision of goods and inspection services, submitted by MPs Veroljub Stevanović, Milija Sekulić, Dr Gvozden Rosic and Tomislav Nikolic, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Social Insurance Contributions Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. A proposal proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Federal Assembly to settle certain issues relating to the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – CHOICE AND DETERMINATION OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS Within this point you have received: 1. Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the number of judges and judges in courts, which was submitted by the Ministry of Justice, 2. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the number of deputy public prosecutors, complementing the proposal for a decision of 19 May 1998, submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor, 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of judges of general jurisdiction and of economic courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor and Deputy Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 5. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of the Supreme Court, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 6. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and president of district and municipal courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 7. A Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Judges and Presidents of Commercial Courts, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision on the selection of jury judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 9. Proposals for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, district attorney in Sremska Mitrovica, deputy district attorneys, municipal public prosecutors and deputy municipal public prosecutors, submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor, with amendments to the May 25th, 1998, submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor. In addition, you have also received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the number of judges and judges in courts and the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the number of deputy public prosecutors, complementing the proposal for a decision of 19 May 1998 and the opinion of the Committee on the proposals of the Republic Public Prosecutor since 19 and 25 May 1998. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that the motion for a decision to suspend the functions of judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts and a decision on the termination of the office of the public prosecutor and of the deputy public prosecutors be considered before the decision on the selection of judicial holders. At the same time, I propose that, before deciding on the choice of judges and public prosecutors, we make a statement on the motions for decisions amending the number of judges and judges in courts, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, since the election of a number of judges, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, is also proposed in places whose opening was proposed by these decisions. 1. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the number of courts and judges in the courts. The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled three amendments, including the name of the draft decision, and the article. 2 and 3 which are legally and technically improving the text of the proposal for a decision. (Amendman 1. reads: "In the name of the motion for a decision: "change", replace it with the word "changes". (Amendment 2: The introductory phrase of Article 2 is amended and reads as follows: "Article 4. Decisions: - in the section of the district courts, point 1 is amended and reads: "(Amendman 3) reads: In Article 3, the word "eighth" is replaced by the word "next"). These amendments were accepted by the promoter and they became an integral part of the draft decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude a unique search and move on to a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the number of judges and judges in the courts. 155 voted against 3 abstentions, not 31 MPs, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. 2. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the number of deputy public prosecutors, with the addition of a proposal for a decision of 19 May 1998. The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled two amendments, namely the Proposal for a Decision and Article 1 which legally improves the text of the Proposal for a Decision. Amendment 1 reads: "In the name of the proposal for a decision, the words "changes and supplements" are replaced by the words "changes". Amendment 2 reads: The introductory sentence of Article 1 deletes the words "since 25 October 1995, in the following text: "Decision". These amendments were accepted by the promoter and they became an integral part of the draft decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude a unique search and move on to a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the number of deputy public prosecutors, with the addition of the draft decision of 19 May 1998. 156 voted against one, with 17 abstentions, did not vote 18, a total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the motion for a decision, with an addition. 3. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single investigation into the motion for a decision to suspend the functions of judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. Does the president want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the SPO parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u452	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you have been informed by the acting President of the Court of Justice about the holders of judicial functions that carry out their duties, although by letter of law they could not do so during the past time and, most importantly, no initiative existed to at least be done in accordance with some extended interpretation of the Labour Law. Here you have one number of judicial office holders that are listed and you have another number of judicial function holders whose names are not listed. The argument was given, yesterday at a session of the Justice Committee, that this was about some people who are in charge of the highest courts and that, in some ways, an even shorter period in which to provide a replacement for them and in some ways bring it into line with the law. Today we will declare ourselves concerning future judges, about people who will give each of us justice and apply the law to each of us. I don't think a failure like this should have happened and we're facing the fact that we're trying to find a way out of this situation today. But not only that, it's not the only thing about applying the Court Act. It's just a matter of discussion. A new law on judges needs to be passed, so new solutions to that. For these reasons, we must conclude whether our law will apply in courts or not. If we do not apply the law when it comes to the holders of judicial functions, allow it, there is no way anyone will expect that the law will apply to him.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u453	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude a unique search and move on to a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the functions of judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. The 158 voted against 37 abstentions, not four, a total of 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. 4. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single investigation into the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the Public Prosecutor and Deputy Prosecutors. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor and the Deputy Prosecutors. In favour of 159 against 21 abstentions, 12 were not voted by 14, a total of 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the selection of judicial officers should be subject to a single search and that the National Assembly make a special statement on each proposal. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The 154 vote against no one, with a abstention of 29, voted 14, a total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions on selecting legal holders (from 5 to 9 points). Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u454	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult for the MPs who received this book a few minutes ago to make concrete statements regarding the proposal for the selection of new holders of judicial functions. The Justice Committee has done part of its work. He pointed out some things, he faced some things, and let's say, in terms of some things, he had different opinions, within the limits of what could have been examined or compared in such a short time, and we came here today to make a statement about some things and to say it specifically. We must be aware of the fact, which has been pointed out for several years, that the choice of judicial officers has not been subject to the Law on Courts. It wasn't done properly, the competitions weren't called the way they were supposed to be called. There were competitions for the whole year, for all the places that could possibly be emptied and, in this way, future candidates really couldn't be informed about where there was an empty space, where they could possibly compete. In this respect, the Committee on Justice has taken a position that with such a practice, it must be stopped as soon as possible and the law must be applied. On the one hand, it's a formal thing that's wrong. This year, however, there were also essential unfavourable things, negative consequences and exceptional dissatisfaction among people who were willing to compete. In fact, in the course of this year, something modified by the competition was one number of judicial officials or candidates for judicial office holders being led astray because it was said that it was not necessary, one who wanted to compete in the same place, to compete again, because his application already exists. So it happened that one not a small number of our colleagues turned to and asked - why are we not on the lists of candidates for future judges and holders of judicial functions? It is a matter that has in fact led to the fact that today, on the list of those we should choose, we do not have a number of extremely honorable and extremely professional people, who in some way could gain our trust. I would now, given that there are many of us and that this list is long, yet I would put forward my proposal and my parliamentary group's proposal, in this regard that a number of proposed candidates should be challenged. I'll get them, there's not many of them. "We dispute the proposal to elect Balša Govedarica, V.D. as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. President of the Supreme Court of Serbia. We dispute the proposal to choose Mr. Cedomir Spacious for the judge and president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. We dispute the proposal to elect Mr Branislav Nikodijavić, Judge of the Municipality Court in Zajecar, as President of the Court of Commerce in Valjev, to elect Aca Nikolic, Secretary of the So Valjevo, and finally, dispute the proposal to elect Mr Bogoja Marjanovic as the President of the District Court in Belgrade." A few specific things that make us think that this choice should not be made, especially today - if we have found that it is partly and because of ineffectiveness in the application of Article 45. The law on courts has been delayed in resolving the holders of judicial functions, which we have recently resolved. If we assess the situation that the proposed candidate for the Serbian Supreme Court during the past period, in addition to these functions, was also at the post in the election process, but not the election of the holders of judicial functions, but of regular elections, and that the assessment of the work of those involved was obviously not positive, because there was even the necessary need for the President of the Republic to intervene with the Government's request to deliver to the Assembly a special law of "lex specialis", if we estimate that the proposal (not adopted) was also required for the work of such a committee and a committee of inquiry, then it is obvious that the border between what the judge, as independent bodies, has been crossed is an obligation to act. In such a situation, we believe that the choice of proposed candidate, Mr. Balsha Bevetarica, would not be good. However, there is one thing of formal nature that we cannot cross over. You have seen for all the presidents of the courts, in addition to what has been said, data have been provided on who else has applied for the president of a particular court. No such paper or members of the Justice Committee have been obtained. If there was even one candidate, I'll tell you that there are a whole series of courts in which there was also only one candidate. They're the presidents of municipal courts, but we've also received a proposal and all the information on their work. So something like this has not been done here and on the formal side. I think that's how it's impossible to choose or at least get information that no one else has competed, and that this is data that no doubt can be read somewhere. With regard to the President of the District Court in Belgrade, Mr. Bogo Marjanovic, we are not questioning his knowledge, because he is the Supreme Court judge of Serbia and a man of exceptional experience, and that would be no problem at all. But I'll tell you something from his file that was delivered to us. The first information is that he was born in 1953 and that by those years he had very little, not the whole courtship. But let's forgive that, too. There's one other thing about data he's given himself -- a job internship for 40 years. That's his information. He first got a job on September 1, 1957, he has exactly where he was and what he was doing, and so on September 1, 1997, he had 40 years of continuous training. A voice from the O.R. A, an army. Even the army, but it's been another year since then, although it doesn't say here. Please, from 01.9. to 28.02. was the legal reference of the despotovo mines, from February 28th to February 21st 1964 the intern, the judge and the President of the Despotovac Court. In February 1964, the day-to-day matches all of this mentioned here.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u456	Mr. Mikovic, please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u457	I know, but I'm just talking about concrete things. There is one more thing that is extremely important here, and that is - for the president of the Belgrade District Court, we have not received a list of those who have applied besides him, nor could the Justice Committee plead to anyone else, because such a list has simply not been delivered to us. Third thing, it's Mr. Chedomir Spacious.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u458	Mr. Mikovic, do you use another 10 minutes, what do you have the right to do in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u459	I specifically suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u460	But, please, 10 minutes is time.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u461	Me and you to understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u462	Just tell me that.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u463	I'll be done in three or four minutes. I think it's in your best interests and ours...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u464	I have to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u465	Mr. Prosperna is not on the list of candidates for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, and there are six others. He's gone, but he's not even on the list of those people who applied to be judges of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. That's this list. So, in such a situation, what do we have to do today? To disqualify a man of extraordinary reputation. No one says that in one normal procedure, he wouldn't get the trust of all of us, but don't let us work the way in which the man we're bringing to one such function, for which there were six other candidates, to disqualify him, because we've applied some other criteria to him. Half of the sentence I still want to say about Mr. Nikodijevic, whom we challenged. He was challenged, i.e. the president of the Senior Court himself, that the other person should be in that position. He stood up for him, and he pleaded against him. As far as Mr Nikodijevic is concerned, we have already pleaded in a way that I and I now suggest that we plead.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u466	Thank you. He has the floor of the Proposer's representative, Mr Nebojsa Lekovic, chairman of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u467	Mr. President, I apologize for being a little sick, so it's very hard to talk. I'd like to remind you that the proposer is a judicial officer, a Justice and Administration Committee, and the Ministry only gives an opinion. All of what Mr. Mikovic was talking about yesterday -- the great majority of things, the truth is doing -- he didn't speak on the board. I'm the only one, as far as I can tell, as president of the Committee, asking the question of the Minister -- did Mr. Prosper have a report and did he meet all the conditions to apply for the judge, and therefore, later on, for the President of the Court of Commerce? As for all these disputed candidates, starting with Balsha Govedarica, all the disputed candidates were given a large majority on the Justice Committee. So, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes them and proposes that this congregation accept them and choose them. As for another thing about Balsha Govedarica, the parliamentary group represented by Mr. Mikovic to challenge his post as president of the electoral commission -- the same parliamentary group did not mind, or the same parliamentary group voted for Mr. Balša Govedarica when he was elected president of the referendum commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u468	There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u469	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I need to draw your attention first of all to the extent of the inaccuracies about it, to make such a thick list to be literally before the beginning of this meeting and there is simply no way to check who you came up with to implement your party policy. However, what really is more than eye-painting is the fact that in the most judicial bodies of this country you tried to introduce people who are not citizens of this country, i.e. to these lists. A series of people who have been in this country for a year or so. Since I don't know anything about these people, I couldn't ask around, because you tried to plant this list on us, I'll just mention it without a name, and you can make sure it's true yourself. On page 51. The municipal court in Novi Sad - should be a judge born in 1946 in Borov. From 1975 to 1977, he worked as a judicial intern of the Municipal Court in Vukovar, from 1977 to 1991, judges in the same court, in 1992, judges at the District Court in Vukovar, and from 1992, judges of the Supreme Court in Vukovar. It hasn't worked since 1997. Now it's supposed to be a judge in Novi Sad. It is also the case of the Municipality Court in Vrsac - a person born in 1959 in Virovitica. Faculty of Law graduated from Osijek in 1983, was not on the territory of Vojvodina or Serbia until 1995. A voice from the hall: It is Serbia. What's Serbia? Virovitica - Serbia? Oh, that's a Serb. I apologize, if I remember the Constitution of this country well, where I have agreed to come to this assembly at all, this constitution says that this is the state of all citizens of this country - whether they are Serbs or not. How did he get citizenship? When citizens of non-Serb nationalities here can't get citizenship that easily, and whoever shows up can. Gentlemen, this is a coaster. This is an attempt to get party listeners in this way to carry out terror over this people and this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u471	There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u472	Are you looking at killing or what you're doing? In the past election, we have challenged Mr. Nikodijevic's judges, because we were asked to do so. His colleagues, in fact, future colleagues, if he started working in the Court of Commerce, considered it an insult for the investigative judge to come and become the President of the Court of Commerce, without having any day of experience in the business of the Court of Commerce, let alone in the affairs of the President of the Court of Commerce. So, in Timoko, people think it will be, especially the people who work in the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, who work in other cities, an insult that there was not a single man of their number who was able to act as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, and Nikodjevic should be, if he wishes, a judge for a number of years in the Court of Commerce, so when he gained some experience to become president. We think that the Socialist Party and its coalition at all costs and in any way want Mr. Nikodijevic to first appoint the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar and his only recommendation is that Radojica Nikolic, the chairman of the District Court, is otherwise known as the Hawk of the Socialist Party. So now the Economic Court is under the boots of the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u473	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u474	The motion for a decision on the election of judges and president of economic courts, as the head of my parliamentary group has already said, was proposed by Mr Aca Nikolic, the current secretary of the Municipality's Assembly in Valjevo, to the President of the Court of Commerce in Valjevo. Of course, in this decision, there seems to be more shortages. As a MP, I was unable to see who had applied for the position of President of the Court of Commerce in Valjev. There is a list of people who have applied for presidential seats in some other courts, and there is no such information in Val's decision. That's the first piece of information. Of course, since I am Valjevac, I know that in the position of the President of the Court of Commerce in Valjevo, more judges of the Court of Commerce in Valjevo competed and that judge enjoys the undivided support of all the judges of that court. This time, a man against whom, of course, I have nothing personal for the President of the Court of Commerce in Valjevo, has competed against, but a man who doesn't have a day of employment at the Court of Commerce in Valjevo. There are top lawyers in our government and they know that law is a very broad area. The seat of the President of the Court of Commerce in one serious court, in one serious country, in one of the justices that we think should exist in this country, requires knowledge of what is a specific matter of the economic court. I believe for these reasons that none of the MPs on the Electoral List in Valjev can vote for such a proposal for a decision. Of course, when it comes to the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, our position has already been said by the president of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u475	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one ever answers my word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. Since a number of proposals by the Committee on Justice and Administration have been challenged during the search, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. Before deciding on the disputed candidate, I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Balš Govedaric, whose candidacy has been disputed, as Serbian Supreme Court President. There were 143 votes against 44, one abstention, no eight, a total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Balša Govedarica as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia by majority vote. I ask the MPs to re-set their cards in the MPs' units to establish the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Cedomir Prosper, whose candidacy has been disputed for the president and judge of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. It voted 147 against 41, two abstentions, seven did not vote, a total of 197 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen most of the votes as president and judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, Cedomir Prosperna. Before deciding on the disputed candidate, I ask you to re-set your cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Branislav Nikodjevic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar. The vote was 149, 40 against, no one abstained, no six voted, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen most of the votes as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajcar Branislav Nikodjevic. Please, before deciding on the challenged candidate, let's establish a quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Aca Nikolic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Court of Commerce in Valjevo. The vote was 148, against 40, no one abstained, 10 did not vote, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen most of the votes as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Valjev Ac Nikolic, whose candidacy has been challenged. Please re-set your cards to MPs. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Bogoje Marjanovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the District Court in Belgrade. There were 146 votes against 43, one abstention, not nine, a total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly chose most of the votes as the president of the District Court in Belgrade, Bogoj Marjanovic. 5. We move to a vote on the proposal for a decision on the election of judges and president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. The vote was 152, against 30, abstentioned 11, did not vote 8, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. Let me congratulate Mr. Balsha Govedarica on your choice. I remind you he's a member of 44. [[Applause]] The law on courts provides for the President of the Supreme Court to take an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mr Balsha Govedarica, president of the Serbian Supreme Court, to take an oath. (The President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Balša Govedarica, comes out for a pay phone and reads the text of the oath set out in Article 44. Court law. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u476	(Repeats the text read by the President) "I swear to uphold the constitution and the law in my work, that I will do my duty in court with security and impartiality, and that I will protect constitutionality and legality."
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u477	I ask the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia to sign the text of the oath. (Mr. Beef signs the text. ) Let me congratulate Mr Balsha Govedarica on your behalf and on my own behalf and wish him much success in his work. We're going back to work. [[Applause]] Six. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of judges and presidents of district and municipal courts. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. They voted 153 against 10, with 22 abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. Seven. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. In favour of 143, against 11, abstention21, did not vote 13, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. 8. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of jury judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. 148, against six, abstentions23, did not vote 12, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. Nine. We move to a vote on the proposals for the election of deputy public prosecutor, district attorney in Sremska Mitrovica, deputy district attorneys, municipal public prosecutors and deputy municipal public prosecutors, submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor, with amendments in the May 25th 1998 decisions tabled by the Republic Public Prosecutor. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the motion for a decision, with amendments submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor on 25 May 1998. The vote was 149, against 16, abstention14, did not vote 12, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motions for decisions, with amendments submitted by the Republic Public Prosecutor on 25 May 1998. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the chosen holders of judicial functions in the election and wish them success in their work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – The resignation of the national envoy of Dragan Todorović to the function of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have been given the resignation of MP Dragan Todorovic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the election of a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that Article 37 is Article 1 and in relation to Article 33(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, designed not to open a search or decide on the basis of the resignation, is merely being established. In accordance with Article 37(1), and with respect to Article 33(3), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that the post of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ended with the resignation of National MP Dragan Todorovic. I thank you for your work so far. Since the National Assembly according to Article 17. The Rules of Procedure should have four vice-presidents need to choose another vice-president of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that I'm in accordance with Article 118. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received one proposal from the vice president of the National Assembly, which gave them the conditions for the National Assembly, at today’s session, to carry out a procedure for selecting a vice president of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a proposal for a vice president of the National Assembly. As you have seen, National Assembly Vice-President Dragoljub Stamenkovic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, who was proposed by 80 MPs to his signatures. I remind you, according to Article 19(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall have the right to explain the proposal. Does Proposer Stevo Dragisic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, want to explain the candidate's proposal? He doesn't want to. ) Since we have received a proposal from the candidate for vice president of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on this proposal. Do any of the MPs want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u478	For the sake of more effective work of this Assembly, I propose that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly be carried out by a public vote.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u479	By raising your hands or by calling?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u480	By raising your hands.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u481	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? No one's answering. Since no one's answering, I'm closing the search. Since the MP's proposal to vote or elect the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has already fallen, is there any other proposal on how to vote for the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? No, there isn't. ) Since this must be decided by the Assembly, I ask the MPs to place their cards in the parliamentary units, to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting the vote on the MP's election to be held by the vice president of the National Assembly by public vote, by raising hands. 150, against 32, with one abstention, were not voted by two, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly decided, by majority, that the election of the vice-president of the National Assembly should take place by public vote, by raising hands. We move to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia -- by public vote -- by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is carried out by public vote - by raising hands, I pray that a quorum be established before joining the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I remind you that the candidate for vice-president of the National Assembly is elected if he receives most of the votes of the MPs present. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic as vice president of the National Assembly. I beg the Members of Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm all in the electronic system. I ask the messengers of the people to plead, who is to raise his hand? I'd like professional services, obviously the vast majority, we'll count those who are against and abstention. Thank you. Who's against it? (12) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. ) I find that most votes were voted by the National Assembly to elect Dragoljub Stamenkovic as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He received most of the votes of the MPs. Allow me to congratulate on your behalf and on my behalf the vice president of the National Assembly in the election and ask for a seat next to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] Dragoljub Stamenkovic is taking his place. ) We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE DESCRIPTION OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Within this point of the agenda, you have adopted proposals for decisions taken by the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, the Yugoslav Left and the Democratic Parties. I'm opening a unique search of these proposals. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, they don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a unique search. Do you agree that all motions by MPs for amendments to the Decisions on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are given at the same time by one vote and that the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. And this proposal must be voted first. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The 174 vote against no one, with abstentions, voted 12, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since the National Assembly adopted this proposal by majority, I ask the Administrative Committee to meet during the break. He's got a very important job to do. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a UNIVERSITY LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Dr. Stevan Vrbaški, Nebojsa Leković and Tihomir Arsic, Tihomir Arsic, Istvan Išpanovic, Jožef Kasa, Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Gvosden Rosic, Spasoje Krunic, and Prof. Dr. Milan Christmas, Mile Jovičić, Dobrivoje Budimirović, Legislative Committee and Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government's opinion on the submitted amendments. You received a notice from MP Life Cvetkovic that he gave up the amendments he submitted to the University Law on 21 May 1998. At a session of the Committee on Education, National MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic gave up all of his amendments, as they are covered by the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law in general, with amendments to the Government and the Legislative Committee, and reports from the Legislative Committee which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Prof. Dr. Ratko Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u482	Mr. President, Mr. People's MPs, you have before you the law on one of the most important cultural educational institutions of every country, what kind of institution is the university. The university in Serbia is an old institution. If the time of the university in Serbia counts from the beginning of the work of Lice, the university in Serbia is 160 years old. If it counts from the start of the Great School, he's 135 years old. And if it counts from the start of a university facility, the university in Serbia is 93 years old. At first, Serbia had one university, today there are six. Only Belgrade University had three universities at first, and today there are 30. Since the founding of the university in Serbia to date, not only have many years passed, but many laws have passed that matter. And lastly, the one since 1992, although valid, has expired. The law reflected a transitional state from one system to another, through which the country was going through and proved quite inadequate for the cure of new diseases, of which the university began to improve in the new time. The bill on the university, which the government is referring to the National Assembly, aims to introduce new solutions to new relations, meanwhile changed. Since then, the applicable law until today has finally disappeared social self-government, as the right of employees arising from the work of social resources, secondary-oriented education and self-government funding, etc. social action, and a parliamentary system of authorities has been established, political parties have risen, the economy is becoming increasingly marketable. The expression of the new reality cannot be an anachron university, which in development is halfway between social self-management and changes in which the state and social sphere are clearly demarcated from one another. The second goal that the legislator wants to achieve by this bill is to round up the matter of the university and university education. The ambition of the promoters was for the University Law to be arranged, for the university to be private, for the matter of the university to be normally not fragmented, but to be totalized. Third, this law is expected to change a sick state that exists at individual universities and universities. For a long time, our university life has strayed from the right path to the side. Since the initial issues of teaching and scientific work, the focus has shifted to the personal issues of the election of rectors, deans and college teachers and co-workers. Some university people pay more attention to such events than science literature, and they invest more energy than they do in the follow-up. The divisions that exist between teachers and co-workers at the university and colleges are not what they used to be, based on different schools in science and direction in scientific opinion, which did not exclude human leniency and patience among them, but on purely personal issues, who was behind this or that candidate for rector, dean, college associate or teacher, which excluded human patience among co-workers and teachers, even led them into harsh rivalry and hostility. The choice in co-operation and teaching depends more on whether or not it belongs to the clan than whether or not they have, professional and scientific works. The clan has become the most powerful reference for choice and promotion to co-operation and teaching. Many teachers, even co-workers, have become more involved in public political activity than in teaching and scientific work. Moreover, many of them became known as political workers, not as lecturers or writers of scientific works. Political parties have inadmissiblely penetrated the most important spheres of university life. The agenda of many meetings of university and university bodies was an example of usurpation of the authority of state authorities, even of the electoral body. Many deans, teachers and co-workers of the teaching council session turned into meetings of the National Assembly, with respect for each other among the members of the council and their speech almost equal to that of respect and speech exist in the National Assembly among MPs from ruling and opposition parties. In tables of division, contrary to the ethics of a co-operational and teacher's call, everything in the form of a struggle for freedom and democracy were also drawn by students. They were also designed by the same political division that existed among teachers. Teachers had no sense of howling students against their colleagues. This remains permanently to testify to the statements of individual teachers, as experts for this or that scientific field about their colleagues, given so-called. The yellow press. Not only are there no collegiate respect, but there are elements of human decency. The first plan was to fight for political goals, at the end of the line for power, while classes and exams were completely suppressed. Several times in the last few years, in fact, since there's been a multi-party system in the country, for several weeks, even months in individual colleges, there's been no teaching, no exams. It is not a rare case that students who wanted to listen to lectures were kicked out of the amphitheaters, and those who passed the exams gave an A's loudly correcting their abominable self-evidentism and comformism at a time when their colleagues protested in the streets and fought, for the common interests. Teachers who wanted to give lectures and exams were subjected to the most odious provocations and provokings, the sending threats, anonymous letters and printed to them addressed letters in the yellow press. Instead of knowledge and expertise, whistle and sherpa were the days of the main tool of academic presentation. These are all signs of a sick condition that exists at individual universities and universities. [[Applause]] Such universities and universities have been more mature for reform. The main issues covered by the Government's proposal for a law on university are: status and establishment of universities, i.e. colleges, teaching and exams, teachers and students, internal organisation, financing and administrative supervision of university work, or college. The first question concerns the status and establishment of a university, or university. The status of the university stems from his definition, by which he is an educational and scientific, or artistic institution. As such an institution, the university is a self-government body, because he and his colleges have educational and scientific autonomy. The autonomy of teaching and science excludes any political, religious and ideological influence and is directed towards gaining scientificly based objective knowledge, with respect for different opinions. That is why every political, party and religious organisation and operation is prohibited at the university and university. The university is an association of universities, and it takes at least three universities to exist. The university and the university can establish natural and legal persons, both domestic and foreign. If he is the founder of the university of the state of Serbia, an act of establishment shall be passed by the Government. The founder of the university, i.e. the university, may also be an entity that is not a state, and in that case the establishment act is brought by the entity, with the consent of the Ministry of Education. In order for the university, or university, to begin work, it is necessary to meet human, spatial and technical conditions whose fulfillment is determined by the Ministry of Education. The abolition of the university, or university, is decided by its founder, and their students have the right to start their studies at the university, which is the university appointed by the minister of education. The second question is class and exams. Schools are conducted in the form of basic specialist, master's and doctoral studies and as a continuous vocational education and training. The university, meanwhile, conducts specialist, master's and doctoral studies from interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary scientific and artistic fields. The university, or university, performs studies based on the curricula and programme for which it is parent. The curriculum determines the duration of studies, teaching courses and their schedule by years of studies and semesters, while the course programme determines its content, formats and methods of checking students' knowledge. The curricula of basic master's studies, i.e. doctoral studies, brings colleges with the consent of the university, while the curricula of specialist studies brings colleges. The course program of studies brings a university, i.e. a university. The course is held by lectures, exercises, seminars, consultations with scientific or artistic work, professional practice, mentoring work, as well as other forms of educational and scientific, or educational and artistic work established by the statute of the university, or university. Freedom of teaching and freedom of study is a fundamental area of university autonomy. That university, or college, has the final word. Autonomy means freedom from any external interference and full independence and self-government in carrying out one activity, in this case university teaching. It includes not only the freedom of the oral word "ex cathedral", but also the freedom to write scientific papers and scientific creation at all. Freedom of teaching and scientific creation is a condition, but also a limit to the autonomy of the university. It is the legislator's assessment of whether it will cross that line or stop at it, without hurting the university's autonomy. The results of teaching and learning are checked in the exams by expressing the success of the students in the exam with a certain range of assessments. The evaluation is given by a teacher, or an examination committee. The examinations are subject to the test deadlines, which have three January, June, and September mandatory legal terms, while colleges can also provide for other test deadlines in their statutes. The government has put an amendment on this provision of basic text. The bill allows enrolment in the following year of the study and when the student does not pass all the exams from the previous year of the study, if in the previous year the study was an appropriate number of teaching subjects. There must be at least eight of them. The number of such so-called. the transfer of teaching subjects depends on the number of teaching subjects in the previous year of the study. That's where the government submitted the amendment to the basic text. The student graduate exam only takes place when it is provided for by the curricula and the basic study programme. The persons who pass all the examinations established by the curriculum and the basic study programme shall receive a higher education and professional name established by a special law. The third question concerns teachers and students. The first ones take classes, the second ones take classes, and they take exams. Teachers have calls for which they must meet the precise conditions. The number of these conditions goes from lower to higher calling. There are always conditions in the higher calling for a lower calling. Only a regular professor is chosen indefinitely, and the other teaching calls are obtained and the working relationship is based on time of five years. Teachership is being achieved and the university's working relationship is based on the competition, decided by the university's dean. This is where the government submitted an amendment to the basic text of the bill. The dean educates the Commission to prepare a report on registered candidates, whose members must meet the conditions laid down in the Law. After the commission's report has been delivered, the dean makes a choice between candidates who meet the conditions for calling and the job of teachers, i.e. co-workers. The only choice in calling and at the workplace of the regular professor, the dean, is made under the prior consent of the minister of education. The dean does not make a choice on the basis of a free assessment, but is bound by legal conditions in advance for each of the teaching professions. Following a similar procedure, the choice is made in co-operational titles and is based on the working relationship of the co-worker, with the assistant trainee gaining a calling and a basic working relationship at a time of four years, without the possibility of re-election in the east. The rights, obligations and responsibilities of teachers, co-workers and other employees of the university, or of the university, shall be governed by a law governing working relations, unless the University Act is defined differently. On certain rights, obligations and responsibilities of teachers, co-workers and other employees at the university, or university is decided by the Rector, or dean, and on individual rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of the university's rector, or dean of the university, the board of directors, or the university. A student gets that property by enrolling in his studies. In the first year of the study, a person who has a secondary education in a four-year period, determined by the statute of the university, may be enrolled, but after having previously passed an entrance exam, i.e. a test to check his inclination and ability. The order of candidates for enrolment in the first year of basic studies shall be determined on the basis of the overall success achieved in secondary education and the results achieved on the entrance exam, i.e. the test for the verification of susceptibility and ability. A student of elementary, master's and doctoral studies at the university, or a university, whose founder is the Republic, is enrolled in the status of a student who is financed from the budget, a co-financed (pays part of the scholarship) or self-financed (pays economic tuition), with the status of a student who is financed from the budget being achieved only at one university or university. A student who is financed from the budget and co-financed by a student retains his status in terms of paying for studies on condition that he does not repeat one year of basic studies. Otherwise, unless it meets the requirements for enrolment in the next year's study, the student can continue studies in the status of a self-financed student. However, if a student is enrolled for the first time in a co-financed or self-financed student’s status, he shall submit all the exams from the previous year of his studies during one school year with an average rating of at least eight, he shall enter the next school year into the status of a student financed from the budget. And to this provision of basic text, the government has submitted an amendment. Certain legal means are available to the student to exercise his rights. The component of student status is not only rights, but also responsibilities that have concrete forms. The fourth issue covered by the proposed law concerns the internal organisation of universities, or universities. There's a dualism of organs. One is an expert, which is an institutional expression of university autonomy and through which university self-government is realized. Their competence is in the field of teaching, i.e. teaching and scientific work. Other organs are management. They are an institutional expression of the forms of ownership over the funds that the university carries out its work and through them, when it comes to a university whose founder is a state-owned state-run, or university. Their competence is in the field of material finance, business policy-making organisations, the choice of teachers and co-workers, university management, or college. The first authorities shall be chosen on a self-government basis, i.e. by all teachers, i.e. co-workers or teachers and co-workers of certain teaching subjects. These are teaching-scienceal, or teaching-art major universities, or colleges and major departments of the university. Other bodies are appointed and resolved by the Government. Such bodies are rector, board of directors and supervisory boards at the university, and at the university dean, board of directors and supervisory board, according to the existence of three layers in a unique function of management, management in a narrow sense and supervision of legality. When appointing members of boards of directors and supervisory boards, the Government must appoint a number of members of staff and students, who make up an absolute majority of those bodies. These solutions in the legislative proposal have led to controversy in the public. Their opponents claim that management is an integral part of the university's autonomy. However, if that function were performed on the principle of university self-government, then the founder would not have any authority over the university. He'd only have a duty to give money for his work. The university would thus become an ex-terrestrial institution, in which absolute self-government would be realised, which, without any right, was financed by its founder. Such a university is unimaginable in the richest countries of the world. The Serbian government has come from the fact that on two different principles, university action and university governance should be organised. First, it's an out-of-state, second-state sphere. How much the state sphere will be, and how autonomous, it decides on the government's proposal for a national representation. The government estimates that, given the above-mentioned anomalies and the avoidance of real autonomy in practice, this function should be in general state. There are no specific examples of parallel rights, although there were, but only as inspiration, not as a blind copy. At such an assessment, the Government has constitutional right, such as the constitutional law of the National Assembly, to accept such an assessment by adopting the Government's bill or to refuse it by not adopting the Government's bill. If the government's bill of law were passed by national representatives, the university would object to such a law to its own people. As far as you can understand the autonomy of the university, the university can never be its own legislator. In this country is the rule of national sovereignty, not university sovereignty. The university, no matter how much it deals with sacred work, is under the people, the national representation and the government as the body elected by the National Representation. The fifth issue regarding the government's bill of law is the financing of universities or universities. The principle is simple here. The founder is the one who provides funds for the performance of the university, or university. When the founder of the state, or the Republic of Serbia, these funds are provided in the Republic's budget. But universities and colleges can also come from tuition, and when it allows for human and spatial opportunities and by providing services to third parties, as from other sources. The sixth question regarding the government's bill is administrative oversight of university or university work. This supervision is done by the Ministry of Education, and its most important form, inspection, by inspectors or other authorised persons. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Government has submitted such a bill to the National Assembly for this reason it is the state of most of our universities as described here. Under the cloak of autonomy, colleges, or all the individual universities, they have strayed from the law and from the authorities. Here, and now some of them threaten the National Assembly with revenge if they pass a law like this on the university. The university can't be above and outside the law. The bill should seduce order and establish the right criteria for the resolution of autonomy, teaching and science at the university from university management and management. The government is convinced that its bill does not undermine university autonomy, but eliminates anarchy at universities and universities where it exists. It is not the university's main issue of choosing the dean, managing authorities and teachers and associates, but the quality of teaching and scientific work of teachers and associates. In other words, all those who participate in the performance of the university, equally teachers, associates and students. The government is convinced that if adopted, the application of this law will eliminate anomalies in the lives of our universities. Create conditions for more responsible work on them. Give more quality teaching and teachers, better quality studies and students and will increase the reputation of a university degree and a graduate student. For all this, the Serbian government is proposing to the MPs to vote in favour of its proposal for a university law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u483	Thank you. He has the word of Minister of Education, Mr Jovo Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u484	Dear President, honourable MPs, the university law is the highest normative act in the area of higher education. The aim of the adoption of this law is to give basic legal standards, which determine the establishment of universities and universities, organisations and governance, autonomy, the way of funding and the overall position of students as primary members of universities and universities. All these issues are regulated by law for both types of university - both state and private, of course, according to the fact that the state is setting up a university or, according to the law, gives consent to the work of private universities and universities. Dear People's MPs, university education is the highest degree of education, and the university is its highest organisational mechanism through which education is conducted. It is really a complex system that has, in a social sense, the most significant functions that a society has, which is education and science. The tradition of the university, as well as the law on universities, is a debt to us, regardless of whether we are talking about university laws, which existed in Serbia a hundred years ago, or we are talking about modern laws on the university of developed countries. Regardless of all this, it comes from the fact that all universities must develop in the spirit of tradition and culture, autonomy in education and science and are responsible to society for their function. Also, all modern laws based on tradition clearly and precisely place the state as founder in the position of fully clear obligations, but of course rights. We can fully identify ourselves and say that in all the laws on higher education we have so far, the state had great obligations in financial and other terms, and it had little rights, especially in the part of governance and control over what it is investing in. As this law regulates the issues raised and functioning of the university in Serbia, allow respected MPs to present several basic data. There are six universities in Serbia today, within which there are 81 universities, the founder of which is state. There is one number of private universities and one number of private universities. The biggest university is Belgrade, which has 30 universities. The smallest university is an art university that has four universities. The other universities have between 10 and 14 universities. About 145,000 students are educated at six universities in Serbia. The highest student at Belgrade University -- over 77,000. At other universities, the number of students ranged from 10 to 25 000, as many as there are in Novi Sad, 10 in Pristina, about 16 in Nis and 10 000 in Kragujevac. A total of about 9.5,000 teachers and co-workers work at six universities in Serbia. It is mostly at the University of Belgrade, which is 4,600, and at least at the University of Art - about 400. What these less say -- more numerical indicators. First, to have large and mass universities, which are as such inefficient both by nature and by content and by management and organization. Rarely in the world, there are examples that the university has 30 universities. It's precisely a trend to create universities from less colleges, but that's why they're efficient, rational, flexible in every way. The law, which is today in front of us, raises the issue of a more rational network and the organisation of the university in Serbia, and above all overcoming the premise universities, which by nature things are inert and resistant to all change. The structure of teaching -- scientific staff at universities in Serbia is also unfavourable. Poorly guided human policy has led us to have "age" universities in human terms. Regular professors account for 42% of the total teacher's staff, and the teacher's staff has more than 2,000 of the assistant staff. Basically, there was a reverse personnel pyramid and a negative selection of personnel. All this forward-sourced products and other universities of unfavourable facts. Study efficiency is very low. Average studies at our universities last about eight years for studies of four years. Only about 12% of students finish their studies on time. In the West, the average study time is about five years, and the study completes about 60% of the students. According to the data, we have the world's largest "density" students measured by the number of students per population. There are estimated to be some 140 students in 10,000 of us, and in advanced Western countries, the number ranges between 50 and 60. Another information on which the university objectively has no significant influence, which is that about 90% of high-school graduates continue their studies, and in Western countries that number ranges between 25% and 35%. Dear People's MPs, there is no doubt that Serbia has a lot, perhaps too many universities, and especially colleges. The university network developed and spread irrationally, mostly without legitimate social reasons. The university network in Serbia must be rationalised. What we have a lot of students I would talk about exclusively in a positive context, on the one hand, as a fact that young people want to learn and learn, but also, on the other hand, as the fact that the state is most often unable to provide work for graduate secondary school students. In total, it can be said that we have too many universities and mass studies, an irrational network of colleges, a small efficiency of study, non-productive studies, non-selective studies and studies in which the state rightly invests a lot. We're not going to say here that studies cost a lot of money and that they put a lot of money into it, so that someone malicious doesn't try to measure education at some cost and that it draws the right conclusions. In general, education is by all means vertical and in a spiritual sense, by all means, above all prices and all estimates. It is a set of spiritual values of a nation and therefore the state must continue to invest in these values, of course expecting adequate results. Dear People's MPs, the Serbian government has prepared a bill on university law that requires changes and better solutions to study, university management and in all other issues of functioning of this educational system, in view of the really growing needs in the work and functioning of the university. In the projection of this law, the government came from the fact that as founder and the one who financed this activity has significantly greater rights than it has ever been. Its rights as founder and as a funder, the government wants to achieve only in the part of the university's functioning, which refers to governance and management, and also in control of the part in which it has rights as founder. So far, solutions in the domain of governance have not provided the government with the rights it, as the founder, has. By the way, those solutions were extremely irrational. The electoral function and what relates to the management of the university were demoted in its essence, and we had one irrational management, in which the founder's influence was minor. All university founders, whether state or private, must have equal rights within the governance of the institution they are establishing. The bill on university law comes from the fundamental principle of university tradition that universities and universities have educational and scientific autonomy and that universal value permeates the whole of this law. Teachers and university associates are independent and independent in teaching and scientific and artistic work, with respect for tolerance and objectivity. Political work is not allowed at university or university, party work and religious action are not allowed, as is every form of ideological work. The central place in the law is students and all that is related to studies and students, their position at the university as basic factors of the same. Everything else, and organization, and management, human resources policy and funding, are all in the prime position for students to complete their basic task, successfully complete their studies and engage in the creative flows of our country's development. Study enrolment and free admission exams are one of the paths to quality and selective study. The law in general stimulates good students and gives all students a chance to finish their studies successfully with their own efforts. Certain solutions in the draft law of the study regime have been improved by the government's amendment, based on a proposal from students, and proposals have also come from certain universities. As you have seen in the amendments, the Government has prepared certain improvements. What we would not point out as primary, but it is a very important question, this law returns the long-lost right of students to participate in the management of universities and universities. By status, students are enrolled in three categories. The first category is students who are financed from the budget, the second category is co-financed students, partial tuition, and self-financed students, economic scholarships. I cite this solely for the reasons that Vice President Markovic has already stated, with the Ministry of Education preparing a proposal that the third category, economic scholarships are not applied for a certain period of time, and the law stipulates that in the part of the conditions for enrolment of students and the payment of studies this law is not applied for a year. There are great weaknesses in the entire system of elections at university and university, from experts to managers. The impact of the founder in this, in particular by steering and control, is insignificant or none. First of all, all forms of choice have turned into their opposite. Instead of quality being a basic criterion and the university being rejuvenated, we are witnessing a degrading human policy, in which stakeholders, nepotism and all that quality and young professionals are suppressing in favour of less capable and more similar stakeholders. In an existing system of university and university management, the election of deans and rectors takes about a year and a half, with all the accompanying appearances of the struggle groups for their candidate. Obviously, it is essentially a highly inefficient system that produces a series of negative consequences for the university in general. Rapidly reduces the assistant staff, universities in the old sense, better reduces the intensity of university work, past all laws and traditions, some involve politics at university, attempts to manipulate students, the governing function at universities is extremely inefficient, and the impact of the founders on the work and functioning of the university is meaningless, which is absurd and is not in line with the rights of founders in this area. The changes in all of this are imperative. They are the essence of our path forward in creating universities that are efficient, rational, selective by quality and operational in terms of functioning. The law provides solutions that go in that direction, and the founder, meaning here, gives the state the right and the possibility to manage the system that it has set up and which finance as the highest general government interest. The goal is that elections and professional titles primarily come from the quality, interest of the university and science, and that goal must be directed and the function of the dean, i.e. the rector. The honourable MPs, indeed considering all this, and other numerous weaknesses in the functioning of the faculty in human policy, in governance, elections, the law proposes solutions that, with consistent application, should cut down the adverse course of events in this area and introduce changes that will start to give better solutions and we hope for as soon as possible. As founder, the state appoints deans and rectors, administrative and supervisory committees, the electoral function is simplified and it is exclusively directed towards quality and I would say, to rejuvenation the university to young professional staff. Other solutions are given in the law that are complementary to the basic guidelines in the law. Dear People's MPs, the adoption of a new law on university causes a great deal of interest not only at universities, but also beyond. The government highly appreciates this interest and thanks to all those who have contributed to the improvement of the bill with observations, suggestions, amendments and proposals. I ask the People's MPs of the Serbian Parliament to adopt a new law, which, betterned by the amendments, lies before you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u485	Thank you. Does MP Milan Mikovic, who has issued an opinion, want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u486	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing there are two introductions here. It's a good thing they explained that this is not about ordinary lawmaking, but about changes that need to be made in a particular sphere. We didn't think, at a time when we first faced a bill like this, that the goal was to solve it, as the term was now used, unfavorable streams of events. We thought it was a matter that should be regulated, which should be well regulated and regulated in a way that along with all the other moves of this country and this country will bring us another step closer to the world. It's a hard time. It's clear to all of us. One of the hardest. But, I'm afraid, in some ways, the first giver promised us an even harder one. In this situation, there are two problems -- a way to pass this law and a concrete solution to the law. I'm going to point out that the government has taken all the steps to make it itself or only with those chosen in some way formulate this bill. That's fine. It is not unusual, but it also pointed to certain things in basic provisions that would suggest that another way should be done. I'm just going to read from the basic text, for example in article 3, it's about university and university activity, it's done without political, religious and ideological influence, it's aimed at scientifically based objective knowledge, with respect for different opinions. Therefore, as one of the basics and in the work, and of course in the formation of all of this. The next thing that is of particular interest, what needs to be pointed out is that basic provisions in Article 5 are the concept of autonomy. But Article 5 of Section 2 contains some other things that are extremely important. It is independence and independence in teaching or art, so it is said - with respect, tolerance and objectivity, in accordance with the university tradition and this law. Therefore, it is obvious that the basic provisions include something that exists in other countries, which they are seeking, but something that has been incorporated into the law of the university in those countries, in contrast, I am afraid, in our assessment, of what is in here. I have already pointed to one thing on the Committee, which is that the right of the Founder and that of him to provide himself with this law, which is based on the fact that he is the founder in a particular case of the Government, which, on behalf of the State, as the owner of the alleged right to decide or define something. In this regard, it is not the same thing as the founder of the Karic University and the universities that the state founded. There, "Brothers Karic" or who owns it by means of their means, want to have some influence with their money. This is the government not with their money, our money, our money, right? That's another thing. Mr. Todorovic is no longer vice president, but he won't confuse me. I know he won't do it on purpose. So in this situation, you have to bear in mind that in Article 12 they say -- it's not a university, there's no university just that the government gives him, but the university has something that he's got, which is a commission, a legacy, a gift, a donation. And, not since yesterday. It's been years. Tens of years ago. All of this must therefore, in a certain way, be kept in mind and that it differs from the right that the Government as the founder or as the owner of the pair on one hand has in relation to all others. I'd like to tell you -- in the way this law was passed, I'm afraid the first mistake was made. Why we haven't consulted anyone else since the first moment. I will remind you, when the Law on the Association of the Oil Industry was passed in this assembly, some other people who understood it were at the session of the Legislative Committee, next to the MPs, next to the government's representatives. One of them is Mr. Tomic, president of the Assembly, then as director of Jugopetrol, if I remember correctly, so Mr. Djakovic from Novi Sad, and Mr. Angelkovic from Kruševec. It was simply thought that it was an important thing, it was a big thing, it was a national thing, and so let's all influence together what the concept of the law will be, what solutions it will be, let's kind of face it and believe it, they've faced it. There were no unique opinions. There were also such conflicting opinions and in some ways went in the direction of these solutions. Of course, that's not how it can be if we from this pay phone who have a different opinion consider ourselves to be a clan or we consider an association that clearly goes against all of our general interests. Such a conclusion none of us have the right to perform, advance, no one has the right to go from disqualifying, absolutely anyone who thinks differently from the legislator of this law. I'd like to tell you, you see, there was, if I counted correctly, it was hard to count, 84 different proposals, maybe more or less, to change something. Which means if 84 times MPs, the Legislative Committee or the Government itself say what's written here is not good, because it can be better, it needs to be better, and that's what we're going to change in these three four days and we're going to think about it. Eighty-four amendments in one of these laws -- so basically every other member is defective. If so, then it is more proof that it should have been, but indeed that everyone in this business should have been engaged, especially those who, with some arguments seriously, want to question the views that the government has expressed in what it has come up with before the Assembly. I'll just say, I'm afraid I'm running out of time, take just one thing - criminal decrees. It is predicted, and the government is behind it, penalties are foreseen that do not exist so high in the work. Whether they should be changed in the future, that's another thing, but it's obviously something that's different from what's with us, right now in force, and it's in the law that speaks of maximum penalties for violations.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u487	I thank you, the MP Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u488	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, the foundation of the Socialist Party of Serbia programme is one of the basic principles of free education, equal chances and conditions for all who wish to be educated. The proposal for a university law has respected and respected these fundamental civilization values and our programme definitions and the SPS supports the Law on the University proposed by the Government of National Unity. We believe that it is a very important legislative project that in a competent, human, rational and objective way regulates complex matter of higher education in a way that is suitable for the standards of developed democratic states and in line with opportunities and needs in our society. Equality and equality of all students in their studies, the university organisation is suited to the status that is characterized in the country as founder, respecting the full autonomy of the teaching staff in the creation of curricula and programmes and scientific work, ensuring the participation of students in decision-making, rationality both in the organisation and in the mode of work and length of study, are the basic values and principles on which legal solutions rest. We support this legislative project, and we are confident that it will improve the area of higher education in all its essential segments, above all that preserves the interest of education students, professor's staff and scientific work. The basic and most significant solutions to the law are the following. 1. The law provides free schooling. Facultys, higher education is available to all who want and who have the necessary skills and preferences and ambitions to be educated at one of the colleges. The law to a much greater extent than before insists on the quality of knowledge for the acquisition of academic status, on their update and study. In an adequate way, the law stimulates those who regularly finish their studies, and they themselves finance that further studies continue free of charge, i.e. under conditions like those students whose cost of study falls on the burden of the state. Ensuring the conditions of good students at study on the cost of the state does not mean banning anyone to study, what and how much they want, but not the cost of society, nor the cost of those who finish the studies within the deadline. At the same time, the state as the founder retains all obligations in the existing life and work of students, they are already such that they meet the standards that apply in much more developed countries than they are now. 2. Management rights are appropriate and derived from founding, i.e. ownership characteristics. The founder of the university in this case will choose those who will manage colleges, rectors and deans, but by the very strict criteria of the circle of professors, this means that they are people of integrity, experience and ability, to organise the work of such complex institutions as the university, or university. 3. University autonomy in the fields of teaching and scientific work is fully respected. Management and property rights do not interfere with the true and legal-autonomic right of the university and do not question scientific credibility, competence and professionalism in the concept of teaching programmes, scientific work, etc. 4. The law fully regulates the matter of the university, which will undoubtedly contribute to a more rational organisation in this area, which means freeing additional funds to improve the conditions of teachers, scientific work and study itself. We are witnessing that in public this legal text has been seen from some of the circles at and outside the university in the mirror of politics, not in the mirror of education and science. That is why the objections are also addressed to this law mainly political, not professional. Those who used the university as a political tribune, of course, are not satisfied with the solutions that insist on the basic work of the university - education. And not just any education, but one that is professionally, efficiently and rationally and which one who is the founder will now control more strictly. The law has been led by a broad debate and the public and the profession has said its own, the principles and solutions on which the law rests from both students and professors are supported in the debate. The government has shown enough understanding for students' proposals, in particular about the conditions of study, the number of deadlines and improving the conditions of efficiency in the organisation of teaching, improving living standards and the like. The National Assembly of Serbia does not need to address the political qualifications of the legal text proposal ahead of us. It is certainly a complex legal matter, which, like all laws, will be subjected to the test in practice, and what the practice shows is to be changed, will change, but not for reasons that dictate party interest, but for reasons that dictate waist. The universities of this law strengthen themselves as the top centers of education and scientific research, the most active places of creation and the highest spiritual values. They remain autonomous in all their basic, scientific and teaching activities, but also socially responsible, exposed to a critical eye as founders and wider - to the social public. The society rightly expects the highest possible expertise from university teachers, the most rational organisation of university work and the most effective deadline for completion of studies. The law prevents the university and those who work on it and educate themselves to abuse educational function in the interest of the parties they belong to. The universities will also remain dialogues on broader issues, which are inseparable from the country's social, economic and political life, but from wider, civilization, scientific, cultural points of view, rather than those that are being debated by individual parties. Due to the quality of the proposed solutions, I am convinced that MPs will support the proposal for a law on the university and enable the achievement of the objectives for which it is adopted, which are in the interest of the university, science, study, or society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u489	He has the word MP Stevo Dragisic, please, as head of the parliamentary group, has the right to the championship.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the state's existence is to satisfy the common interests and needs of each member of the community individually and of the state in general. In order to satisfy and meet these interests and needs, it organises different organisations, institutions, public enterprises and other organisations that serve to achieve these objectives. Interests and needs are from different areas, starting with economic, hence material nature, through sports, cultural, educational, etc. And, once the state has established an enterprise, an institution, an organisation, it sets out the goal to achieve, hires experts who are, in that case, conditionally speaking, state officials, because they are on a national mission, perform a state service, provide funds for its existence, and allows those experts to make maximum within their knowledge and professions, in order to satisfy these interests and needs of individuals and states as a whole. Once the state has established an institution or institution, it always controls the institution's work and always checks whether the goal, which is why the institution was founded, has been achieved. That's the case with the university. Of course, the state, a rational state, in addition to the establishment of state institutions, allows in the area and the establishment of private institutions. The bill stipulates that in the area of education, apart from the university as a higher education institution, private universes are also set up. But as far as the state university is concerned, he, as a state institution, is subject to all those laws and rules relating to all other state institutions and state institutions. In the establishment of this university, the state has set a goal for him. That goal is described in Article 8 of the Law. I will read it: "The university performs specialist, master's and doctoral studies from interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary scientific, or artistic fields. The university promotes the development of science, teaching and scientific research, the ubiquitous and scientific improvement of teaching and scientific rejuvenation, international co-operation and education through science. University co-ordinates teaching and scientific research within the university." That is, therefore, the goal that needs to be achieved by establishing a university. After that, the state organizes the university's work. He chooses the rector, chooses the deans and then the science teacher has an obligation to achieve this goal. As they will achieve that goal, the state does not interfere. It's called the autonomy of the universe. The university's autonomy means self-deserved achievement of the goal set by the state to the university. If the state interfered in the way it would come to this, then it would mean abolishing the autonomy of the university. And that there is the autonomy of the university and that it is guaranteed, the first few members of this bill, which was ordered by the state to guarantee the autonomy of the university. Well, it is said: "The work of universities and universities is carried out without political, religious and ideological influence and tends to acquire scientifically-founded objective knowledge, with respect for different opinions. Political, party and religious organization and action are not allowed at university and university... "and so on. Article 24 says, "The Master's Master's Educational Plan, or Doctoral Studies, brings colleges with the consent of the university." There's no mention of a founder anywhere, no mention of a government. This is where the curricula is brought with the consent of the university. He's referring to a plan that brings colleges. The Special Studies Education Plan brings colleges. The university brings together the curricula and program of studies that it organizes. The curricula and the programme that organises several universities brings the university on a proposal from those universities. A university that is not part of the university brings up a curricula for the form of studies it organises with the consent of one of the relevant universities. The curricula of studies brings a university, or university. The curricula and the programme of continuous vocational education and training brings colleges. This is where the university's autonomy is described. There is no government of the Republic of Serbia here, or founders. But those who have these days defended so-called. The autonomy of the university, the autonomy of the university, describe as some kind of territorial autonomy, as if we were to interfere in the internal affairs of the Principality of Monaco, for example, so that we passed a law based on which we would determine who would be state officials in the Principality of Monaco. That's the way the opponents described university autonomy to this bill. The university’s autonomy implies what is stated in Article 24: Autonomous achievement of the goal set by the founder and nothing else can be considered that kind of autonomy. This bill also brings about one characteristic change in the study regime. It could be said that it may even be the only major change in the study regime, and it refers to the loss of the status of a regular student in case one year is lost. This way, first of all, wants to stimulate those students who want to learn and who have opportunities to learn. If they don't want to learn, they lose the status of a regular student. They are still allowed to study, but in this case they have to pay, i.e. to be in the co-financing regime, as the Minister of Education explained for a little while, who said the government would propose that the self-financing regime is still not being applied. So all other provisions relating to the study regime have been applied more or less to some colleges. This bill guarantees five test deadlines. With the statutes of each university, the number of deadlines examined can be even higher. The statutes of the university can determine that exams can be taken every month. Those students who are ready, they can lay down every month. There can be no smaller number of test deadlines than that set by law. But any college in particular can determine by statute a number of test deadlines. On the other hand, this bill now specifies how many exams can be passed from one year to the next year, depending on the total number of exams that were passed that year. In some colleges, this number of exams was much smaller. That criterion was far more rigorous than is now foreseen by this law. So for some colleges the study regime will now be in this sense lighter than it has been so far. The only important change is the one relating to the loss of a regular student's status, but it makes sense because we have a situation in colleges to study people for ten years. When they show up for a student protest, we wonder if they're students or if they're people who have a lifetime of experience behind them long ago. I remember someone from the 1992 student protest, when I was his age, my children would be 15 years old. They were students who had studied in college so far. This is how students are stimulated to study, to really study seriously, to allow those who want to study, to study for free, because if they start as regular students they can be until the end of the study, and those who do not want to study, if they have extra money, they will have fun in college and no one will be at any loss. The Serbian Radical Party will vote in favour of this university bill because we believe it guarantees university autonomy, guarantees that the study regime will be taken seriously and that in this way all young talents, which want to study free of charge on the cost of the state, will truly be educated as good experts who will ultimately benefit this country.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u491	He has the word National MP Dr Ivan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on the University, drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As we discuss this bill here both in front of the Assembly and almost in front of all colleges the key to the mood and the fear that in Serbia, if this law passes, there will be no more autonomy of the university, no more free teaching, no more free scientific and cultural action. In happy and democratic countries, when adopting any law, governments obtain an opinion and advice from the university, and in Serbia, the university is not consulted on a law relating to the university itself. [[elevator in the O.R.]] Our citizens are served TV polls and cowboy shows, especially on all state televisions and media, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj's government, claiming to be a modern law, introducing order and work at the university as a household business, and the government declares the owner who gives the money and then rightly says, "Music plays the way the boss pays". At the same time, he threatens university professors to lose their jobs unless they accept to play as Seselj plays and that students who protest will lose student status. But these threats clearly indicate and show whether forced administration is being introduced to the university or not. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, is not a pumpkin without roots and our university is not since yesterday. A offspring who does not respect tradition and does not deserve to be called offspring. Only for the primitives of history begins on the day they were born or when the authorities got their hands on it. For Serbia's citizens alone, I will present the key facts relating to this law. The founder of the University of Belgrade, and hence all Serbian universities that were born from Belgrade University, is not Vojislav Seselj, but the Kingdom of Serbia. In 1905, the Kingdom of Serbia Assembly passed the Law on the University, which without any reservation guaranteed absolute freedom, both professors and sciences and cultures. I'll remind you of some fundamental members of that law almost 100 years ago: "Article 7. - University authorities are rectors, university deans, university council, university administration, university council and university court. Article 8. The Rector chooses every year the university council for a year, among those members who served at the university as regular professors for at least five years. The rector's election is being reported by the minister of education. The university council chooses its own dean between regular professors for a year. The dean's election is being reported by the minister. The university council is composed of a rector and all regular professors of the university. Among other things, he, with motives, rejects a public vote by a professor's election conducted in college councils. For a regular or extraordinary professor, one who received an absolute majority of the votes of the total number of regulars or for extraordinary and one and other professors and if the university council receives the choice. Such a chosen person is proposed to be a regular or extraordinary professor to the Minister of Education for approval. Article 25. - Regular and extraordinary professors who don't have 10 years of service can only be fired on a proposal or with the consent of the university council. Those who have more than 10 years of service can be retired and only on their own consent, on the proposal or with the university council's consent, when they have completed 40 years of service or 65 years of life or when they have so weakened that they cannot perform their duties over and over again, which must be determined by a medical committee review. In no case can a regular or extraordinary professor be transferred to another service or placed in another position without his consent. "The almost identical solutions are also contained in the University Act, which was adopted in 1930, which was brought at the time, as the Serbian Radical Party and JUL reiterated, infamous six-year dictatorships by Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. The Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia is funded by the university, and the government and the king have no right to decide who will be rector and dean, who will be professor and how they will teach. On the contrary, the dignity of universities, professors and students was raised to the highest possible level, so the professor could not lose either the department or the service and the police had no right to access the university building. Once upon a time and only once, the police broke this rule and, chasing some communist anarchists, broke into a university. The then-rector of the university, Professor Vladimir Corovic, resigned immediately in protest, and the university and democratic public stood up so much that a public apology came from the king himself. Vojislav Seselj asks me what's up with the profits. Well, with this kind of respect for university autonomy, the state makes the biggest profit, because it allows experts from all areas to be absolutely uninterrupted and freely educated and raised in the spirit of maximum tolerance and freedom. While that was the case, the university didn't produce ignorant, snotty and spineless, no political party, government, king, or anyone else could have gotten the university into their cars. For the first time in the history of our universities, during an occupation in World War II, Nedic's Minister of Education Velibor Jonic dared to declare the regulation by which the dean is appointed by the government, but even then simply respecting the proposals of teachers from the university. At least formally, and all communist authorities after World War II respected the right of professors at the university to choose deans and rectors, as well as teachers. What Nedic's Minister Jonic did not dare, he now violently wants to break through, in much more drastic form, the Serbian Radical Party. Let's be open. This law was written, I don't know whose hand, but the ideological memory of the Serbian Radical Party and the JUL certainly did. If we let the government appoint deans and rectors, and the deans name professors, then that's the end of autonomy and freedom of teaching. Radicals will appoint their deans, their JULs, and their SPS, and they will all require their deans to name party professors. Otherwise, the dean will be recalled from his party and may lose his service, as threatened by Vojislav Seselj. To bring down the university, the hearth of Serbian science and culture, to the level of public enterprise or agricultural cooperative, that means to abolish the university in Serbia. Claims that this caucus law is in line with some foreign solutions, above all with those in France, are mere fiction, which Serbian Renewal Movement MPs will show in a further debate. If this law is passed, our diplomas will not be recognised by anyone in Europe and the world, because there is no university in Europe or in the world that recognises the degrees of the agricultural cooperative. That is why the Serbian Renewal Movement is urging Serbian MPs to reject the proposed law and to approach the new law in co-operation with the university, which would also respect university autonomy and modern European solutions on an effective study regime. [[Applause]] If, however, under the party's directive, the ruling coalition MPs will vote on this law, we appeal to Serbian President Milan Milutinovic not to sign it for state and national reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u493	National MP Stevo Dragisic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u494	Ladies and gentlemen, I expected that in this exhibition, which was written by the Serbian Renewal Movement, or by the president, or by someone else who had the patience to write it, at least one argument will prove that university autonomy here has now been abolished. Instead, we listened to quotes from some laws that were passed 100 years ago in Serbia, in the National Assembly, which were then in force. I remind you, Mr Kovacevic, that a hundred years ago, it was forbidden for women to be heirs, that a hundred years ago there was a limited right to vote, that there was no equal right to vote. Women, for example, couldn't vote. Certain categories of population were unable to vote. If we were to apply everything that was a hundred years ago, then we would have to apply those principles that applied a hundred years ago. Mr. Kovacevic, it's been a hundred years. Some of the states learned during that period. He's had some experience over the past hundred years. Today, a modern law has been applied. Instead of what happened a hundred years ago, we are now passing laws that are suited to today's time, the present. We don't want to live in the past all the time. We appreciate our past, our history, but the laws are passed according to today's needs. The autonomy of the university does not mean that teachers and deans can declare teaching termination and participate in political processes, or political protests against the state. It happened a year and a half ago, it seems to me, when some colleges simply stopped teaching, and some deans and teachers actively participated in political protests. It must not happen in college that teachers stop teaching because of their political conviction. They can take care of themselves after class, go home, take a shower, have lunch and go to protest. But to stop teaching, to students who want to study the difficulties of studying and taking exams, that can't happen. It's not university autonomy, it's abuse of university autonomy. You're talking about eliminating the abuse of university autonomy. If that's what you mean, that's what this law has done now. The abuse of the university for political purposes will not be. That's how law enforcement and university work are introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u495	National MP Ivan Kovacevic - reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u496	I don't know what Mr. Dragisic's replica was in, I don't know what part he recognized himself in, whether in the part where I talked about people who think history starts with them or someone else. But there was one interesting thing Mr Dragisic said. He says they took part in protests against the state. Those protests weren't against the state. Those protests weren't against the state, Mr. Dragosic. They were for the state. It was against the state that they committed an election theft. They were against the state. They violated the rule of law and the state at all. These are the same ones you chose today as judges, that is, the President of the Supreme Court. It was not therefore a protest against the state, it was a protest for the state. What you didn't participate in that protest, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u497	National MP Stevo Dragisic - a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u498	Mr. Kovacevic, obviously you think history begins with us. We don't think history begins with us, but that the future begins with us. As for the protest and what and for whom were these protests, who were the teachers, the deans to assess what these protests were for? It's their job to teach in college, and their political beliefs and convictions to show up after teaching. You have just now admitted that they have abused their autonomy at the university. You said - yes, they did, but because they thought it was for the benefit of the state and for the benefit of the state. Who are they to judge? They can express their political opinions and beliefs when they finish their public work. Their government job is to teach students and question students, to judge them, to give them 6, 7, 10, 5, to knock them down, to explain where they were wrong. It's their government business, their obligation, because the state pays them for it, not for them to interrupt their work, to prevent students from learning and being questioned, because they think it's in the state interest. It's not in the public interest for a student to lose a year. One who has different political opinions can show them in different ways through political parties, to be an MP in the Assembly, to tell this speaker what he thinks, but before he has to do his job.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u499	Thank you. He has the word Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u500	Dear Members of Parliament, tradition and history must be respected and respected, but tradition cannot be a wake for reforms and for the society of the present and the future, at least historians should know that society is developing and that solutions from the last century cannot always be identical with solutions for this society. It is not good for society to move backwards, even if that goal was to seek some monarchy, kings, etc. But that's by the way. I wanted first of all to say that the proposal for a law on university is a significant and bold step for the government. The importance and social weight of this law exceeds the frameworks of the university and represents a major step towards real reforms. These fundamental changes make up the meaning of reform, and already there is a time when political parties are dividing into those who are making essential reforms and those parties that are satisfied with only the shouting of passwords, such as "lived reforms, all for reform, we are above, ahead of reforms", just as the English comrade exclaimed - we are behind you - and I don't know what he meant to say. So I think this is a step and part of the essential reforms. I'll read you the explanation of an amendment to this bill. I quote: "The decision on the number of students depends significantly on the content and methodological characteristics of the teaching of individual universities as well as on their spatial, human and technical conditions for teaching," the amendment said in one explanation, it doesn't matter who and who gave it. So we're going to have as many students, as many universities, as we have professors and space in teaching aulas and professorial cabinets. It doesn't matter if there's money, and it doesn't matter whether there's a need for the economy or society for a particular personnel profile. It's at least, as I've interpreted, a message from this way of thinking and, unfortunately, life. This, in fact, only expresses the relationship to the university reforms of those parties that only call for parole in the glory of reform. I think that's why a few facts are important to discuss this bill. First, the bottom line is that with this law, the university, or its professors and assistants, will finally have to return to their basic function, which is the education of students, which implies the improvement of education programs, the making of quality textbooks, teaching and their own scientific training. I guess some of them forgot all that a long time ago. Secondly, this law gives students far greater opportunity to influence the process and quality of teaching, to make decisions on the quality of study. So it's about the real impact of students on the life of the university. The reform of the university is the basis and essence of this law. I think it's a starting point for both the government and all of us. She's necessary, given the state of mind and the state of the university. We need to speak openly about the state of universities, their professional work and the attempts to replace scientific educational work and reverse political action. On the quality of teaching, responsibility and expertise of teachers, on the regularity of teaching, on the great lack of textbooks and on some semi-written textbooks, there are almost no regular and normal dialogues in colleges. Only when two opposing camps or two bickering professors argue can criticism be heard at the expense of the quality of teaching and their textbooks, thus turning criticism into the most common means of low blows and the most dirty plantings. Students today have virtually no influence on quality, nor on the regularity of teaching. Not on the quality of the textbook, not on the test schedules. Simply, in some ways, students seem to be made up to exist and survive in order to fill classrooms and gyms. Instead of participating students in the decision-making process, fewer groups of teachers use part of the students, who have apparently strayed into academic waters, so expensive, united, teaching, learning and scientific training replaces protests, riots and noises. Perhaps these minorities could be viewed as a bearable right to impose their own, scientific impotence and laziness on that noise, but they are aggressively and with a lot of persuasion on most of the other teachers and students who are successful and who want to learn and work. As a result of this relationship and the situation at the university, there was a devastating situation last school year, when a whole generation of students were professionally-educated and spiritually crippled. During this sad period, the damaged minority usurped the right not only to unauthorizedly represent the majority, to speak unauthorizedly on her behalf, to lower the intellectual level of the Academian citizens, but also to deny the majority the right to learn and work. Something about contesting the right of the state, or the government, to have a decisive influence on the management of the university. One fact is forgotten. The government, as a representative of the state, is both the founder and fundier of the university. It is forgotten that this very congregation was chosen by this government, and this congregation is an expression of the will of the people. If, then, this government doesn't have the legitimacy to run the university as a founder and as a financier, then how do you get to that manager? So are we going to have a general election for the boards of directors of the university? It's not in the interest of society to make absurds where there's no need. In the end, something about autonomy, because it's the most talked about. The bill on university law does not end autonomy, but rather aphirmics and comes down to its essential content. The Yugoslav Left is for the autonomy of the university, which comes down to the autonomy of knowledge, freedom of thought, creation, for autonomy that allows for the improvement of the teaching process, which enables the protection of those who want to be autonomous in work and creation, from those who interfere with and disabling all of this. The thesis on the threat of autonomy is the most common mask for covering riots and political needs of some Gonzales-parties, to cover the intention to distance the university from its basic function and turn into the exposures of the mentioned Gonzales-parties. Autonomy advocated by harsh critics turns into protection for those who have already completed their first year of studies in 27 years and have obtained books for the second year, so they have dried up, to protect those who lack scientific papers and written books to advance, to protect their political performance at the university which seems easier and more tempting than science and study. That's why I think the issue of relations with the University Law proposal is a matter of genuine relations with the depth of reforms in society. The Yugoslav left wants serious reforms, wants progressive changes that leave traces on the way to a modern-economically strong society. So we want to carry out fundamental reforms, and we leave the fakes to smaller choirs who are going to cry out their oaths to eternal reforms. The Yugoslav Left therefore supports the University Law proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u501	Thank you. Pause until 2:30. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, please take your seats to begin our work. Before we continue the debate, just a few conclusions to make. I am handing over the resignation of Faruk Dizdarevic, acting as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 1 of Article 2. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Faruk Dizdarevic on the day of his resignation. Consistent with Article 102. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the time of his election, was over, was passed by MP Faruk Dizarevic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in election unit 19 - Uzice, on the day of resigning. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You have been given a letter informing the National Assembly that, on the basis of Article 102 and in relation to Article 13. Law on the election of MPs, suspended the mandate, before the time they were elected, to the following MPs: Dr Stanko Studen, Igor Mirovic, Mr Milan Nincic, Dr Milan Bačević, Slavisa Mladenovic and Dr Stanislav Momcilovic, for the post of deputy ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been given a report by the Administrative Committee on the examination of this notice, that is, the reason for the termination of the mandate to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102 paragraph 6 and in relation to Article 13. The law on the election of MPs finds that those MPs have ceased their mandate on the day of taking over as deputy ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, according to the law, are incompatible with the role of the MP. Consistent with Article 102 and with regard to Article 13. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that, on the day of taking over of the Deputy Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the mandate ended before the end of the time elected to the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and that: - Dr Stanko Studen, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party in the election unit 8 - Sombor, - Igor Mirović, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party in the election unit 9 - Novi Sad, - Mr Milan Ninčić, elected from the election list of the Serbian Radical Party 19 - Uzice, - Dr Milan Bačević, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party in the election 21 - Kraljevno, - Slavishi Mladenović, elected from the electoral party of the Serbian Radical Party in the election of the 25th and the only party, Moslavska Vrica - the elections. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. There is a word from MP Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy parliamentary group, and let Nenad Canak, head of the parliamentary group of democratic parties, prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy believes that for the best concept of the university for the 21st century, in addition to the concept that provides all the conditions for unlimited work on finance, material conditions, teaching staff, opportunities for scientific and research work, for professional and teaching work, it is also important to respect adequate balance and to achieve between the rights of founders to manage, which cannot and should not be challenged, and the autonomy of the university, which is also a civilization achievement. The new democracy does not belong to parties who are black-and-white and who will view any proposal as solely bad or exclusively good. It is doubtless that the law in a certain way improves the regulation concerning the right of founders to have more direct insight into what is happening at the university, but it is certainly unacceptable that this right prevails and civilizedally acquired autonomy of the university. That is why the New Democracy will not vote in favour of this bill, because despite our attempt to correct the law with a number of amendments, we have failed because we have received a negative response from the Government mainly to all amendments, without any clearer, more precise, more detailed and convincing explanation. I think it is a mistake for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to leave a good method in its work from the previous period, to consult a number of experts, scientific and public workers and those who are directly interested in better and more quality regulation of this matter, and in this case it is a university. It is good that in the end, only yesterday, the government held a conversation with the Prime Minister, and with the vice president, with representatives of universities and representatives of students, but it seems that it was quite late and there was little goodwill, all of these negative reactions in the public could be prevented in such a way as to jointly approach the creation of a truly quality and good law, which is in the interest not only of the founder, the university and its autonomy, but above all in the interests of society in general. I hope that such a concept of co-operation with scientific, public and cultural workers and institutions will be applied in the future, because in the past it has proved to be good, and now unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to do so. What is also very important is that during this debate, which was common in other legal projects, there is not an organised consultation with universities to the extent that this is common in the preparation of new legal projects and especially in the extent that it is worthy of the university, as particularly important national and state institutions. We in New Democracy believe that some solutions cross the expected borders, with full respect for the financial rights to have an adequate influence in governance, which cannot be disputed in any way, but individual solutions endanger some of the elements of university autonomy. It can also be noted that the draft law applies the governing concept of a public enterprise, with some solutions even below the regulatory public enterprise, as the Government appoints a board of directors in public enterprises, and the Management Board appoints a director of public enterprises. In this case, the government chooses the board of directors of universities and universities, but also the vice presidents and deans, and they are defined as management bodies with the rights and duties of directors of enterprises, which largely represents the finger around those employed at the university, because the university turns into an ordinary firm, which we cannot allow because of the exceptional social and national importance of the university. The new democracy has tried to fix this legislative project with its amendments, and unfortunately we have failed because the government has not accepted them. So that I don't go out and explain every amendment in particular, I'll tell you briefly just the essence of a few of the most important amendments. We have suggested that, while respecting the specificities of the institutions of universities and universities, and given the view and practice of other countries with old-known universities, in developed democracies, we have proposed that the university management body be called "the Council", as is common, not "the Management Board". The essential definition and ingenuity of this governing body is essential, while we believe that this name is not adequate to what the university actually represents in society. Also, we have not touched on the proposed right of the government to appoint rectors and deans, but we have proposed to appoint them among the three candidates proposed by universities and universities. We believe that in this way people chosen as rectors and deans could be much more connected to those they work with, that they would have much more support than their colleagues, colleges, colleges, their university, and that solution, on the other hand, would not touch the government's right to choose those people who will exercise the will of their founders, but, at the same time, as people from the university, supported by their colleagues, could also be the great protectors of the university's autonomy. It was one balanced solution that could pass and that does not violate the whole concept of this law, but emphasizes a slightly greater autonomy of universities and universities. The next amendment, given by New Democracy, concerns the choice of teachers and the right of the Dean to do so. We have also not touched on this proposed solution by the government that the dean is doing the job, but we felt it was not celibate to educate the dean and the commission to prepare the report on the candidates reported. So he chooses the commission that prepares his report and he chooses the candidates. We felt that this commission should educate major colleges, educate teachers, professors at a certain university, and that they were preparing a report to the dean, because ultimately, his is final, with the agreement of the minister. A team before the amendment of the government to the 88th Dean announces a competition on the proposal of the Department, means that if the cathedral is already involved in the procedure to announce the competition, it is not clear why the cathedral is not proposing the appointment of an adequate commission. What was the original intention, the positive intention of the promoter, is to strengthen the conditions of study and make the study more efficient and better, better and that intention should be welcomed. However, the government has practically deviated from the concept by increasing the number of test deadlines and obligations students can make in the coming year of study. I must say that these amendments were given by the New Democracy MPs and that I do not understand why the government rejected them, to then offer amendments in the same text as the Government's amendments. It is no shame to accept the amendment of the MP. So, we have given amendments concerning improvements and that meet students in terms of some reliefs, but the government rejects these amendments to then make the same amendment as its proposal. It just doesn't have a reason. Also, we have proposed a known phenomenon, a return of property largely refers to the university and we have proposed certain solutions to return that property to the university and colleges. It was also rejected on the grounds that it was not a substance regulated by this law. I believe in the government's goodwill to take care of the university and ask the government to propose other legal solutions as soon as possible concerning some other laws, which would return property belonging to the university and colleges to its original owners, to the university and colleges. What's a little bit of a concern, and I don't think it leads to a good atmosphere and good relationships in society, are the hard words that the drought of this pay phone and the last days in the media are qualified people who work at the university and who study there. It's not possible that everything is so black, it's not possible that the university is a crime, corruption, malfeasance and all kinds of social evil, practically a litter of organized enemy action or some terrorist group acting against the state. If that were true, then we would be in one terrible state, from which there would be no turning back, but thank God it's not like that. It's even more surprising that some regular professors at the university who work, create at the university...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u504	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u505	.... They are now giving such qualifications, forgetting that during this self-government period which they are now criticizing, they were the ones who were in colleges as regular teachers in the administrative process itself, elected professors, professors, assistants who are now so uglyly speaking about.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u506	I thank you, there is the word of the Messenger of the people, Nenad Canak, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vladimir the Press.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u507	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I don't know if you know it, but during your meal, police and students met on the streets. This concluded that unidentified persons dressed in civilian clothing, consisting of black jackets, beat up a group of students, one of whom was seriously injured. I think the police minister should let us know about it, tell us what's really going on. On the other hand, it would be nice if Mr Markovic, who was also the introduction of this law, answered one question, and that is what is happening in Kosovo, as it is amazing, that Mr Markovic is coming to deal with all these issues without informing us what is happening in Kosovo, where people die every day....
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u508	Mr. Chanak, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u509	I'm talking about the University of Pristina. So, since there's a war going on over there on the hoods, I mean the University of Pristina. I'd also like to hear about it, if possible, Mr. Markovic. If not possible, which I have no doubt, it would be nice to hear something about the arms strike and the hunger strike. By the way, Mr. Nikolic, you have a greeting from the armory. I know that you by nature work...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u510	Mr. Chanak, please stick to the agenda. Please, I'm warning you precisely that you're talking about the agenda, and with these tricks you won't pass. Be kind and stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u511	Thematic vertical of the bill consists of the Government, i.e. The minister determines the rector, i.e. Dean, making mediocrity. This principle that the founder, because he is the founder, has the right to regulate such relations will tomorrow lead to the Government Academy of Science determining the president, so that then the wife of the president of the Academy of Sciences, as was the case with Elena Ceausescu, and then the end is very similar, as he did with Mr. Nikolai and Mrs. Elena. Irregularity. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u512	Be kind and stick to the agenda, or I'll be forced to take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u513	The ban on any political organisation and operation at the university can be seen in several ways, but what will the Serbian government do with the University Committee of the Yugoslav Left? Furthermore, Article 39 is a purely racist member, as it argues that a student who starts learning in minority languages cannot move into Serbian language studies, thus encouraging non-Serb language studies and thus disrupting Serbia's constitutional position as the states of all its citizens. In chapters 8 and 9, management is arranged in such a way that the district serves exclusively to elect the rector and the deans by moral-political similarity by the minister and the government. Also, it is not true that the bill is the same as it is in Sweden and France, because uniforms have existed in colleges in England for centuries, and in China the command of communist equality, so these two types of uniforms are not the same, but they are quite roaring. All in all, this is a deterrent to the country's burning problems, such as Kosovo, such as unemployment, such as relations with Montenegro. And all of this in the crowd will cause these children, who are now on the streets, who are asking you (there are also their professors) to go and talk to them, to be victims of the police who will beat them again, and all of this will end in bloodshed, for which you too will be responsible if you don't take my suggestions seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u514	He has the word Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, crossing from the MPs' benches, which were much nicer to me than these benches in the first row, I have consciously taken the risk of receiving with a smile everything he tells me and the one who's drunk and the one who's crazy and every noise. Here, whoever wants to say something to Tomislav Nikolic, I'll take it with a smile and I'll never react again. When you mention the weapons, remember, the government of the Republic of Serbia's last two salaries received weapons in Kragujevac, although they are not in the jurisdiction and authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And, don't make others trouble yourself, Mr. Canak. It is not my fault that you represent a political option that will never decide in Serbia on any law, especially the law on the university. But, here you go, from now on whenever you show up at the pay phone and whenever you have nothing to say, you mean me, and my smile as an answer you will have. (A surprise from the MP's bench: "Hello, hello").
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u516	Don't yell - hello, hello, only if you're not a professional phone player. Otherwise, the word is required very culturally. [[Laughter]] There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, a reply to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u517	I didn't want to talk about the gunmen so I could score political points, but I wanted to draw attention to the fact that people out there were strikein' hunger and that you, as a man who's domestic, have to go around them and ask around what their problems are. The wages have been won, but if a man should be grateful for what he's earned, then that's not how I understand this country.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u518	He has the word Tomislav Nikolic, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u519	With the apology of everyone else, who did not receive money in Serbia and did not earn it, I am telling you that the two last salaries paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia were not earned by the gunmen. The debts the state has towards the gunmen were addressed to the federal government, not to the government of the Republic of Serbia, not to Minister Tomovic, not Tomislav Nikolic, or anyone sitting in this hall. But better information could be told by the organizers of the strike, and you are right in the benches where the members of that political party are sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u520	The People's Messenger Vladimir Stambuk has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dragan Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u521	Dear President, honourable MPs, these replicas create anxiety for future debaters. Heto I am saying that I believe that this assembly will be remembered as a reform synergy, because, continuing what the previous assembly was doing, this assembly has many jobs ahead of it. In fact, it is necessary to pass laws that will amend and coordinate the institutions of this system with the institutions of civil society. For such a society we have defined ourselves, at least a number of people have been defined, and we have to build these institutions. The bill that is before us translates universities or universities in Serbia, means all six universities into civil society. There is a main requirement in this bill. And all those who criticise this law are essentially criticising the process, and among them, unfortunately, there are many those who went for civil society a few years ago, civil institutions and civil democracy. The civil society implies a clear definition of who owns the property, a clear definition of who manages this property, efficiency in work, or production, or function and ultimately assumes that Parliament is the one where laws are passed. It is the government that implements and implements these laws, and it is the judiciary that defends the legislative system and the functioning of institutions. Of course, as a member of the Left I try to represent in the development of this civil society the idea of equality, equality, social progress, a rich individual in a rich society and direct democracy. Because, civil society, as we know it, is the society of indirect democracy. I am surprised that those who have been such great advocates of creating civil society since 1992, in this House, those who have at my university, at my university and at all the universities in Serbia and Yugoslavia have advocated this civil society, today are against this civil society and against this bill of law that converts the university and gives it these powers. The only thing I can conclude is that those who represented it did not believe it at the time, but simply thought it would serve them to gain political power, as today a number of my colleagues represent the opposite option of this law, believing that it would provide them with a certain political influence and political power. I'm not for the university to be a source of neither political power nor political conflict. When it comes to this law and what it represents, I'd like more universities and more students in our society. When it comes to rationalization, rationalization comes down to the fact that studies are shorter, more efficient and that we have as many graduates as possible. In the future, where there was once an engineer, it'll take a doctor of science, so we can step up with the world. Therefore, education will never be enough, students will never be enough, but students cannot be put in a position to study for eight years, but as high school graduates in four years, 93% of them, so that students can also be put in a position to allow them to finish colleges for four to four and a half years. This law is acceptable for me and for the Yugoslav Left for the simple reason that there are several very clear provisions. The first is to make it clear that in our society there are now universities in state and private property. Secondly, which clearly speaks of the transparency of governance. This means that you know exactly who manages and how you manage the university when it comes to private and state universities. Today in this congregation, and in recent days in the media, one has been trying to contradict the truth. It's not true that professors were deprived of the right to manage the university. There will be no dean representatives of working cooperatives, but regular professors. There will be no rectory representatives of the village's owners, but regular professors. Nameing them by the state is not a significant difference from the previous state. To remind you, the dean was elected by the council, which she named almost two-thirds of the state. (Glasses: 50%). The state called it 50%, you know how it went. Now the difference is that instead of that advice someone else is doing it right now, but the ingenuities and responsibilities are the same. Secondly, professors will also manage in colleges, head the department and do professional jobs. In addition, and most importantly, especially at the university is guaranteed what has not existed so far. My university colleagues well know that a number of students, who belong to this or that political option or his parents are members of a certain option, cannot pass exams on certain subjects because he is a professor against the political option. This can't happen. Politics must leave the university. What he has to stay at the university is only knowledge. Everything beyond that is the civil right of a professor to work, but outside of college and university. I agree that we should appeal to the past... Under the same law, which was mentioned here, at the end of the last century, then an unknown man named Nikola Pasic competed as an extraordinary professor on the subject of building bridges and roads. The crown rejected his candidacy, although he had all the professional conditions, because he was considered a dangerous socialist. The man had nothing better to do, made a party and became the leader of one of the strongest and most famous political parties in Serbia at the time until today's Yugoslavia. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What was the name of the party? ). Nikola Pasic, and Radical Party. But it wasn't the Serbian Radical Party, it was the Radical Party. [[Laughter]] As for this Ćorovic, please, he was removed, as I recall, because he introduced the dictatorship to the university, which threw left-wings out, which gave them nothing to do and debate and represent left-wing ideas. When he kicked them out with the police, there was a demonstration where a student was killed. As I recall, Belgrade University celebrates April 4th as a day of memory of the leftist's murder. Therefore, do not use Corovic, who is one of the darkest figures, to use him as an element to prove the democracy of the Belgrade University. Find some better examples. The efficiency of studies is one of the central things to be provided at university and university. The university left first demanded that students improve the conditions of study, especially when it comes to cash compensation, reduction, payment, etc. And I have to say, I'm happy that the government has adopted some of those amendments. I also find it very important that professors make their contribution to efficiency at the university. I don't want to mention specific cathedrals or colleges, but believe me, there are a lot of colleges where over 50% of teachers don't have their textbooks, and I can point out, it doesn't matter now which one of them is, and there's not a single textbook in the mother's class in the last 40 years. Therefore, all regular professors who are in that direction should long ago be removed from the university because they have not met the conditions for selecting an extraordinary professor. I'm betting that teachers have their obligations and that they meet them through teaching and writing textbooks, to help students to finish their colleges as soon as possible, through one serious and basic class, because every year after four years of studying, their parents pay for the company, and ultimately the students themselves pay for it. I also advocate that this law, which I support, will be a law that will allow the university to stand on its material legs, to ensure a new inflow of literature, magazines, to enable professional work through seminars, assemblies, international symposiums and the rest, which is necessary to implement. (President: time. ) With all this in mind, I suggest that this law be passed because it ensures that the university as an institution becomes part of a civil society, for which this assembly stands [[Employer Ivan Kovacevic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u522	Why the replica? Be kind, you have no right. The People's Messenger Dragan Veselinov has the word, "Let the People's MP Milan Christmas be prepared."
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u523	Mr. Chairman of the National Assembly, gentlemen, I believe that I am not alone and that I can share with many a great deal of concern and concern for the future of our university, given the bill. I'm a regular professor at Belgrade University and I'm proud of it. My entire working life is tied to Belgrade University. I'm proud this university has gained a great reputation abroad. As a university worker, I lectured at the Academy of Social Sciences at the Central Committee of the Communist Party in the Soviet Union, Moscow. I'm an honorary professor of St. Anthony College in Oxford. I'm an honorary professor of London University. I had a chance as a university worker to give lectures at many universities and universities. There are solutions, I couldn't say that there are no solutions in the world that are in some elements that are close to those offered in this law. One solution is that a student who is unable to enroll next year loses some financial rights or cannot even enter next year unless he fulfils his obligations within a specified deadline. This law may well predict it. However, in this difficult economic situation, when it is obvious that parents have little money, financial punishment for missing opportunities at the university would be too difficult. In a very difficult material position, Belgrade's, New Sad and other universities have brought this regime. The character of the regime has lost very good scientific ties, good financial ties, scientific exchange has been suspended for some time during sanctions, exchange of students, etc. In this extremely difficult economic situation, if we went to punish students for not being able to perform their duties regularly by transferring all responsibility to them, I believe it would not be good. As a Belgrade professor, but as a member of the Vojvodina coalition, we reject the bill. I cannot accept, as a professor of Belgrade University, that the university has strayed from the law, which means I am also an outlaw, as are many teachers who sit here. That's not what we are. We see this law as a prominent political interventionism of the state in fact of the university. It is not incorrect that the government must have certain rights at the university, because it is true to fund it. But at the same time, it is also true that the Government, or the National Assembly, through its budget, is a funder of a convincing majority of our colleges with about 40-60%, the other funds are being made by colleges themselves. However, management of the total mass of funds belongs only to the Government. This law essentially introduces human interventionism. There's no university independence unless he chooses his own teachers to teach. He doesn't have to choose the dean, he doesn't have to be the only one in charge of the dean and the rector, but the university has to choose its own teachers and report to the ministry. Finally, it is not good for the government to direct the dean, or dean and rector, as well as the board of directors, because they will essentially be the instruments of political intervention at the university. I believe that many of us are convinced that if this law is passed, the university will be the victim of political relations in the country and that this law will not contribute to improving the scientific and teaching process. It can lead to prominent apologetics, primarily social sciences, hence which dean and professors will be elected directly by the government through the dean. There is no objective science. These are the illusions of those who have never been involved in science. There's no such thing as neutral science. There's only critical science. Hence, this law can also be a dangerous instrument to curb the country's scientific criticism of social processes and the right of scientists to recommend where to go further. Science without normative courts is worthless. This law can be a blow to normative courts. Hence, which is a dangerous human threat and essentially leads to the politicisation of the university, not to the release of the university from politics, but directly puts it under the country's ethical cap, centralizing power, personnel, decision-making. The law is essentially a contribution to further centralisation in Serbia, which has otherwise led to growing political conflicts in our country. Finally, it is not good for the government of the Republic of Serbia to manage all universities in the country. The University of Novo Sad was founded not by the state of Serbia, but by the AP Vojvodina. By their own means and, as unacceptable as it may seem to some, the people of Vojvodina have funded the establishment of this university with their own money. There is no reason for that university to be directly placed under the government's central control unless it itself contributed to its establishment. Finally, I just want to point both colleagues and MPs to one dangerous part of the university law, to Article 151 of Article 2, where, although it doesn't have to be, but the university, so the dean, or university, or rector, can cancel the degrees, doctoral degrees of scientists, if the assessment that these diplomas are not acquired by the original works. At the same time, the law does not say which work is original, from which point some work is not original enough to be recognized. That big threat can lead, it doesn't have to, but it can lead to the annulment of the doctoral diplomas of those professors that the government can decide are not loyal enough. It can happen very easily to one of the regulars or any other professors to give up the right to a degree, saying you overquote, you're being exaggerated, you're being exaggerated by great literature. The more literature you have, the less original you are. That's the kind of danger he's threatening. I didn't think it was the motionary's intention, so the government, but it can be put into those waters. Finally, this form of ethicization of the university leads to a huge threat that government shifts can also replace teachers and that the basic criteria of university work, at the university, be loyalty, political loyalty of professors -- to governments. As governments change, so do teachers. It doesn't have to happen, but it's not off, because the law allows it. These are the reasons that lead us to be against this law today and we will not take part in the debate that will follow this debate about the amendment, because we believe that the university has been expelled from the negotiation process. The academically larger university, or rectorate, had to be questioned, had to be an active associate in the making of this law. Without a university, such a law should not be improved, we should not, in our opinion, go to any amendments, because the skeleton of this law is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u524	Thank you. There's a word from the People's MP Dr. Milan Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u525	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 20th century Knjaz began to regulate the Serbian state. One of the first jobs, but not the most impediments, because of course the police were always too far ahead, it was an education arrangement. So by the will of Master Milos, the first three teachers in Serbia, who were to educate children on state spending, were appointed. Namely, until then known schools were private. Soon it turned out that one of the three names was illiterate and the other was constantly drunk. From where they served, complaints came, and from somewhere the demand to change. From the book office came the following answer: "It is not in the knowledge of the Library nor that any of these two teachers are against the authority of us. That's why I don't understand why you want to leave these honorable people out of service." The romola of causa finite or Rome has spoken -- the case is closed, they would say, educated in Roman law. It is not, however, in my knowledge of what the fate of these two educators was, nor what knowledge and abilities they awakened in their students. However, circumstantial evidence, as the investigative authorities would say, testify that there were often people on this soil whose teachers seemed to have been these two. True, as Lord Milos says most of the time, they were not against his authority. Milos, meanwhile, poorly educated and almost illiterate, and we must say paranoid, did not make the Serbian state have the best relations with science and culture. For years, he hesitated to allow the establishment of a university. Konstantin Danilu answered - how we don't have people like that. The scientific society also delayed the formation of the Academy of Sciences, so that only at the end of Milosevic's first rule, 23 years after the second Serbian uprising, we received the Academy and the University. By contrast, the rebels in the first uprising, three years after entering Belgrade, established the Great School. He understands why Milos was afraid of it. He was afraid, of course, that the university and the Academy would work on his head or at least that he'd be hanging around his feet. But when the Academy and the University were already established, no one of our authorities, no matter how much they bothered her, decided to talk about their heads. Of course, this is not exactly true until the end, because in the government we also mean occupation regimes, because, as we hear, Nedic's power was in the image of Minister Velibor Ionic in 1941, a law which she decided to appoint teachers, deans and rectors for herself. Since in this hall, I believe, there is no one who thinks it was a legitimate government, we must agree that the decision of Jonic is, in fact, the decision of the German occupation authorities to directly manage a university that has not worked anyway. True, teachers were still appointed, so on Christmas 1943, the author was produced by Jovan Djordjevic, the famous Broz Ustaste writer, who served the next regime of ideology. We can find such miraculous examples in other countries and other climates when totalitarian regimes were in power. We are not aware that anyone has reached out to such open instruments of repression in countries that have legitimately elected parliaments. It turns out that the proposer of this law is trying to get into the history of curiosity. Universitys are in all countries of salt, which would say national sciences and cultures. In almost all countries, they are mostly state-owned or financed mostly by the state. Some exist longer than the countries they are in. The entire national science, technology, culture rests on them today and springs from them. It's a rough and hard road, there's no joke. For decades and centuries, they have lived on their own, living on their own, on behalf, however, but never at the expense of their people, through very complicated relations with the institutions of society and with society and the state. Still no one in the civilized, demographic world has ever thought of being more competent, more skilled than those at the university itself, to judge and judge who should work on it and how to manage it. Of course, there's not a single country that doesn't understand all this, but yet every state is trying to politically influence its university. However, few do so in this open way because the state has many instruments of repression at its disposal, from depriving money to less or more subtle pressures on individual professors, institutes, universities, universities. So the state can use other instruments of repression. There are control mechanisms, for example, like this one that contains the existing law, which we have at this point, where the state, through its representatives, controls the work of college and university bodies, but of course, no matter how undemocratic they are, however, give certain freedom, at least the freedom to propose those who will be teachers or dean or rectors tomorrow. No democratic parliamentary state has so far decided to manage the university this transparently and therefore I, of course, am my parliamentary group, categorically against such a law. So, what's next? Whether the government or founder will take direct control of the Academy of Sciences and appoint academics and presidents who are not against the authorities. If this law goes through, it doesn't take long to wait for a new law, let's say the church. It is not a particular skill for the government to prove that it is also the founder of the church, to declare the church a public enterprise, and to pass a law by which the government will appoint bishops and patriarchs, again those who are not against the government. Gentlemen, I ask you once again to withdraw this law, because the university is too serious to be left to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u526	Thank you. He has the word of Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to speak after Milan Christmas, because you're never sure if he speaks as a government or as an opposition. It's hard to figure out how to answer him. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a good and excellent law to the National Assembly. The university law has the intensities to prevent further riding, inefficiencies and unhappiness. The aim of this law is to increase efficiency and work and order at the university. How and for what? You know that science and higher education are becoming a decisive technological force for civilization development. The university is one of the centers of enormous accumulation, knowledge and intellectual skills, one form of memory of civilization. By transforming science into a transforming force of development in the future and society with the best education system, they take a key position, a position that was once occupied by societies with the greatest natural resources or number of machines. The goal of this country, owned by the university, is to achieve the best possible results, which will contribute to more efficient and fruitful work in all areas of social life, in all areas of social life. Our goal is not to have more politicians, our goal is not to last eight, 10, 12 or 15 years, but to improve the quality of study, to improve the material base of the university in general. That's the essence of this bill. You say the biggest public noise is caused by the last few days by those who have the least right to do so. Earlier, the head of the New Democracy parliamentary group, Zarko Jokanovic, I guess as a student, says what and how we should do. He's five years older than me, and he's not close to finishing college yet. When's he gonna finish college? Is that what the state needs to finance? Is the state supposed to invest in all this? Does the state need money to spend on all this? Then the question arises, they say some parents spend money, they can't pay for studies, parents spend money like this. Many parents spend money on Zarko Jokanovic or someone else? Many, because of their income, from some of the fiscal obligations they have to pay for the state, give money for the studies of Zarko Jokanovic, which last as long as, 10, 12, 13 years, who knows how many? The point is that the biggest public noise has been raised by those who may have been affected by what is coming to them. That's how Mr. Vesenov used to talk about himself, tell us all his biography. He talked about how and why passing a new law affected him. He didn't say a word about students, except he said that the law in general wasn't good. Which is why it's not good, we couldn't hear it, we couldn't find out, except that scientific exchange wasn't good enough at the time of the sanctions, so it should be better, because he's an honorary professor in London or I don't know where else. I don't mind that, but it's the law here, not whether Vesenov will be an honorary professor in London, Belgrade or any other university. They talked in the previous days about how they should be asked at the university, that they talk about, that they participate, that they manage the university. No more of that. No more self-management. Now it's going to be a turn and a work. Self-government that you decide what isn't yours, there isn't. You, Mr. Christmas, don't let your coalition partners run a public-communal urban cleanness company, and you're saying you're gonna let someone run the university. Don't please, it's top-notch, it's the worst possible hypocrisy. And you're talking about medieval laws, you're giving yourself the right to attack someone and give inappropriate examples of how a church will declare a government institution and choose bishops and patriarchs. Maybe you could do it, maybe you imagined it, but it sure as hell won't work. The government of the Republic of Serbia by law on the university of no one's rights has compromised, no autonomy has been abolished. Many speak, of course, and not knowing what autonomy means and its etemological meaning, so they say that under autonomy they consider ex territorial zone, as foreign embassies in our country and imagined they could do whatever they wanted and how they wanted to do it. What has autonomy been lifted by? Is it by prohibiting political lectures and political stands in biology class, in anatomy class, in geography class? Is that why the university's autonomy was lifted? Who touched their geography class, biology or anatomy or any other subject? No one. In science, in research, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not interfere at all, nor does the university's autonomy, the autonomy of science, the autonomy of teaching, the autonomy of education, but cannot stick to the political stands. It's something that bothers some and cannot be abused by the university for personal purposes and personal needs. That's what he won't be able to do. Who cares, it's a good thing he's bothered, because that way he won't be able to work, act and run a college or university, as he's done so far. So that's the essence of this proposal. One more thing, you've been telling Mr. Christmas from your party policy, and I'm obliged to answer that, because a lot of lies have been told, and the law of 1905 has been mentioned. I've studied this law a little bit, some provisions, so I need to get to the public with these provisions. Indeed, the true university figure is confirmed by the name "Great School", which was obtained by Serbia in 1905, but remember that MPs of the then assembly, in order to save, limited the number of staff to 20 regular and 20 extraordinary professors, while at the same time confirming the minister. And you didn't want to say anything. You won't say, according to positive legal solutions in Germany that their government determines, of course, in the selection of three professors, which will be a regular professor, and even in the same case when the government said it couldn't be any of the three proposed candidates, the Federal Administrative Court of Germany has made a decision, or said that the state is right and that none is elected, because if it has the right to choose one, it has the right to oppose each of them's choices. Which is why you are, i.e. Which is why a lot of people died and why they don't like this law. Of course, it is understandable that opposition political parties are trying to find some reason to attack the law. We haven't heard good reasons. This law is good for another reason, because the government will have control over the management process, because the government will want to save money from those parents they're talking about, that money is spent on child benefits, pensions and for other purposes. And no more giving money the way it comes to anyone and who wants to spend it, that's a daughter, because someone likes to have autonomy the way he imagined. This law is good. It's hard to make better. And the government of the Republic of Serbia is probably the most measured to propose to the National Assembly, it is an authorised proposing, because some have wondered in the previous days of God, who is the one who proposes the laws. Yes, the Serbian Government is proposing this, and expects MPs in the National Assembly to support such a law, because it is certain that we will provide better quality teaching, better material basis, better materials of conditions and that we will ensure more effective study of our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u528	Thank you. National MP Milan Bozic asked for a replica, then Zarko Jokanovic and Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u529	You've been calling me out a lot, or I wouldn't. You mentioned my name twice, and the party a few, but that's not the point. To be clear, you used a very dangerous word - the property of the government. It's country property. Whatever. Because the government is equal to the state the way we stop this country. The word property is extremely dangerous, at least we from the Serbian Renewal Movement keep it that way. According to institutions, which exist longer than the government and state, the word - property, you cannot use for some of the things that exist significantly behind you. There is no doubt that the government and state are affecting these institutions. On the fingers of two hands or even one, you can count what's older than World War I. It's the Academy of Science, University, Church, Politics, Theatre and Library. I think I've listed all the institutions that are older than World War I. Of course, the government is a state institution. These are institutions that live their own lives and, of course, that the state affects them, but the state must never, by rude interventions in these institutions undermine itself by undermining someone today, by the way, demonstrating both against me and against you, Mr. Vukic, these protesters, and a handful of them, and just because you don't like the political attitude of someone you want to pass a law by which you're going to destroy something very important -- the foundation and functioning of very subtle institutions. [[refers to a comment from an unheard hall]] You say money should be allocated to effective study, etc., and not to dizziness. Give it to the university, as you normally do with the budget. Efficiency will depend on the quality of these people there. You can't influence the efficiency of the study. After all, you gave in as much as in the negotiations today or yesterday, when the minister negotiated with students, applied those elements, how much to appease the students. We can do it legitimately. It was even too harsh to understand what was in the law. It's not a question. But there is no order and work in institutions of such age, such continuity, such complexity of creation can be seduced from above. Don't forget that words and order and work are terribly dangerous. At the entrance to Auschwitz, it said, "Rad liberates." Those are terrible, dangerous words.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u530	He has the word Zarko Jokanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u531	President, the Satanists are getting it. I don't know what's so angry about. There's only one thing I have to say if he's after those who haven't finished college, the young minister can look at his current vice president's party, he's at least 15 years older than me, and he's still a student. I'm not sure what condition the head of the parliamentary group of the same party is in, Mr Dragisic. I don't investigate other people's biography. For your information, the truth works, it was only 93 years after the studies that I started in 1987, after a year of break when I was a delegate in this assembly and after 1993-1994, I started a permanent working relationship here. And, one more thing, young gentlemen, I'm proud to have absorbed with an average score that's close to nine and that I passed all my exams very honestly, not by method -- a couple of spins where the burgion won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u532	National MP Vukic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's an interesting need for gentlemen from the Milan Christmas party, I'm correct, so I like to call him, let him answer again, we can, or he's a party, however, so Mr. Christmas is dangerous when you change the order of words in a sentence a little bit and abuse them. Or use the lie. Are you saying that the word work is a dangerous word? I know that in your Serbian movement, it's a dangerous word to restore it, because you don't like to work very much. But that's one good word. You like something else to do, which our people would call otherwise. But work is a nice word that no one should be ashamed of. Which our people respect, which our people love, and all civilized peoples respect and love. Don't mention them, because nobody here mentioned them, they didn't come in anybody's mouth at all, or anyone else's memory of saying anything like that. So, as far as work goes, there's this, and secondly, Mr. Christmas, there's no radical cuts here. The question of property is, as you know, Article 34. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guaranteed. I guess it's important to us that we have a defined owner of property. I guess that's what it says in the SPO program, too. You recently said it was written. Or doesn't it say now? The titular property must be defined. I guess there's got to be some knowledge of who's running the property. If we don't know that, then you don't know who's doing what. Then we'll have self-control and some wild self-management where we won't know who's in control of all this. It's about you, Mr. Christmas. And as for you, Mr. Jokanovic, I don't know who you mean by this money thing. But I know you have a lot more money than I do. Which I'm not proud of. I've never paid for a single exam, and I finished college in time, with a much higher average than you've had for 10 or 12 years. But it wasn't me. You mentioned in a very incorrect way my senior colleague, otherwise my boss, the superior, however you will, Tomislav Nikolic. Tomislav Nikolic does not support the state, Mr. Jokanovic. And this country feeds you. Your parents are feeding you. He's getting his own education, so he knows more than all of you do. And you're being educated at a state manger. As much as the state gives you and you do it badly.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u534	There's a thing called the Happy's. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u535	Okay, I expected from our former students, who ended up with such good grades, that they could still understand their former professors. But I can see that's not always their hand. But at least I would expect from some of our former students a little more public culture in speech. If it's not clear why I'm against this university law, I'm against him because he's bringing political interventions into the country. Directly setting up a professor by the state leads to the removal of the criteria. No one will be or many will be chosen for the results of their scientific work, but according to the criteria of political loyalty. There is no science that is not critical and it must be critical. The science that lost criticalism is over and it's a university. If there is no principle and we choose professors for political loyalty, none of the proposed savings you're talking about will be for our students because they won't have anything to learn. They have to get real science, open, clean, combative. It's the only science, and where politics is being dragged into university, there's no more science. Finally, who is proposing this law to us? We are suggested by those whose children do not study in Belgrade, the large number of executives who are here today in the country, their children are studying outside and there enjoy the benefits of the development of science and autonomy of the university, and how. They're proposing political intervention, breaking the criteria for selecting professors, and they can't do that. Finally, about the students, where the direct government decides on the number of students, not the college itself, then the university itself can be punished for the scientific policy it should be leading. Where only the government determines how many students will be at this or that university, it can seduce hard political rematchism. That's what can't be allowed. The university must have independence and will only justify its name, with reasonable government control, and the government does not finance Belgrade University, it is not true that the government owns capital, it is funded between 40% and 60%, I repeat. All other funds are being made by colleges, it can't happen that the government controls the entire mass of these funds, and that's why it's necessary to withdraw this law in order to move towards some process of reconciliation. That'd be good.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u536	National MP Tomislav Nikolic and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u537	I'd like to answer to my young colleague, and then I'd like to say something about the university law. So, I haven't finished my studies at Law School, I guess this assembly should have someone representing those who didn't graduate from college, and I'm not finished with the fact that the university law didn't work out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would call this law the law on the equality of citizens who study and those who support those who study. [[Applause]] There are 145,000 students in Serbia, 98% of children graduate from primary school, about 92% of children graduate from high school, and about 10% of children graduate from college. I'm not the 90% one, but if Jokanovic hadn't told you that, you probably wouldn't have known. Of 92% of high school graduates, 90% of them go to college, and that's where our kids get the problem. We have good children, hardworking children. Something's going on at the university, which prevents those kids from finishing schooling, something happens in college, and convinces those kids that it's more honorable not to take exams, but to go crazy with individual teachers on the streets, but to take exams and to build this country and make their own bread. What's going on is whether it's the professor's political acuity, whether it's the incompetence of the professor, the poor thing over Belgrade University. Hundreds of cameras from all the world agencies will gather today around some professors and a handful of students, and why is that? Is this some kind of scientific work being presented? No, they come to watch individual teachers take to the streets to achieve political desires that they cannot achieve by establishing political parties or membership in individual political parties. I suppose it's true, I'm talking about the university, that today a group of protesters tried to block the streets of the Serbian rulers and that the police scattered those protesters. I suppose there's a bruise, but who's to blame for those bruises? Those who have been convincing children for ten days that they should demonstrate against the law of the university? And why would a student be interested in the Law of the University, why would a student be interested in who would manage their property, not interested in exams and subjects? Does he not care about the material, does this law, Mr. Ivana Kovacevic, intervene with you in the material that you present to students, even though you belong to the SPO? Does it intervene in your evaluation criteria? No, it doesn't even intervene in your choice, I suppose you're such a kind of professor, even though I've only heard about you from the SPI press conference, that you'll be re-elected every time to call a regular professor. What's wrong with this law, what about that university autonomy, what do you mean by university autonomy? It's not the Serbian Orthodox Church, we can't give that autonomy to the university, it's not the embassy of a foreign state in Belgrade, you won't get that autonomy even a few years ago when it was a demonstration, a bandit hit a police officer on the street and flew into a university building. The police ran after him to arrest him, and you jumped in and out of the way that the university and college were invulnerable, so you can't chase a bandit around the university building. And my apartment is harmless, so the Constitution and the law allow the perpetrator to get into my apartment as well. Well, when she can go to my apartment, she can go to college. It's more sacred to me, so I agree that at certain times, when interests are higher than my interest, that no one enters my apartment, that my apartment can be entered. Many professors belong to Belgrade University, belong to political parties, many students belong to political parties, and it is honorable and no one should be accused of it. It's a disgrace to bring politics over Belgrade University, it's a disgrace to poison children with politics, it's a disgrace, because they have to take exams and get off the budget of a family that doesn't have almost any income and supports a student. It is unworthy to tolerate someone studying in Belgrade for 10 years and paying for his apartment, just because you think the state can handle it most of the time. There is no state in the world that can provide such free studies. The question is how many states provide free studies and regular students. You didn't give me an example here, not one example, of any university in the world, which free-school students, at least in civil society. But that's why there's 60-98% of students there who finish colleges within hours. When your kid in high school loses a year in the house, it panics. As soon as she skips high school, she goes to college, there's no question at all whether she wants to be questioned in time or not. It's considered normal to start losing years of life now. Still, if they catch him, and the easiest way to manipulate young people, if they catch him in their own hands, those who have not proven themselves, but prove themselves through these children, these children can be very difficult to come out of someone who can be useful to this society. You are accusing Serbia's radical party and the JUL of passing this bill. Of course, you are silenced by the participation of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and this is the Government of National Unity. There are no MPs from these three parties and there are no ministers who feel any resistance to this law. You don't mention socialists, you count, you're going to enter the federal government. I don't see any other reason. [[Laughter]] I don't see any other reason to blame you for JUL and the radicals without your socialists' guilt. You're accusing Vojislav Seselj of being his law. Why do you underestimate the other vice-presidents of the government, the Minister of Resort and all the other ministers? This government unanimously passed this bill. I haven't heard a single argument today, except for this visiting professor in Belgrade, who's been issued against the government. Immisilte, Mr. Veselinov claims to be from Vojvodina, and the professor is at the University of Belgrade. (Dragan Vesenov: Where I am designated). What are you guys doing here? Visiting, honorary professor? There's a good salary here and it's a good cathedral, and Serbia's not as good as the state you live in. What kind of personality is this, and how do you teach kids, what kind of citizens are our kids that you teach? Someone here was talking about 84 amendments. In theory, and Mr. Christmas can work on the computer to budget, it was possible to submit 50,000 amendments to this law. So many members of the law, with so many views, times 125 MPs, even someone else. The government has the right to submit amendments, committees have the right, over 50,000 amendments could have been made to this law, and there are only 84. Is that a lot? It's not a sign that the law is wrong at all. After all, all those who are against the draft law have not submitted an amendment to delete members of the 1 - 200 bill. None of you are against this law. Even you, gentlemen professors, who are going out for this pay phone today, think about talking so you don't mind. You think someone's gonna get back at you, take you out of college and out of university. Oh, my God, who's thinking of that? But you're on your way. If you'd taken power and you'd have thought of a law like this, you'd have disintegrated all the socialists working at the university and college. Because you are disbanding your coalition partners from public enterprises in Belgrade, what would you do to socialists with whom you have never, in some cities in Serbia, been in a coalition. This law is just trying to establish a proper relationship between the state, between teachers, students and parents. The Serbian government, don't take her right, has to worry about the funds in her own country, the Serbian government has to worry about the funds set out in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year. The Serbian government has the right to propose this law. The assembly and no one else has the right to discuss this law. There is no expert body that should have discussed the law beyond the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its committees. I don't admit there's any other institute that's supposed to be discussing this law. The country's policy is being run by political parties, those who are in power at the moment, but in political life, all political parties, including those who are in opposition, participate in lawmaking. She's a poor political party who doesn't ask her to make her views on the law, but asks for someone besides her to ask. Then why do you do politics? Let, then, some others deal with politics. What do we want? To make effective studies, to get kids who take exams in time to go to school for free. To allow the child to lose one year, to allow him to pass each month's exams. To allow him to have good housing in his homes, not to study and not to study everyone who wants to study, but to study only those who can study, who can graduate from college. We've neglected so many professions and so many jobs just because we think all kids should study, and there's a lot of nice jobs past college. You deceive a child into being able to study, and as you shake your hand on the palm of your hand, 30 years of life fills, loses at the university, because he never takes it seriously that way, it never cost a child or a parent, and it cost the most to the state, through the state and all the citizens of this country. So, this bill of law is the best draft law that has ever existed at the university. If he had been better before, I would have given the university the authority to file a bill. You know, the National Bank is autonomous, she has the right to propose the National Bank Act. The university is autonomous, but it has no right to propose the University Law. So someone's cared about it before.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u538	There's a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u539	One former student leader, who won't finish college for 15 years, so he might be a student leader again, here in this booth he was interested in my biography. As he was interested in this payphone, it's time for the pay phone and for me to answer. I went to law school in 1993. The same year I got married. I lost a year of college because the professors at Law School stopped teaching in 1996, when they were protesting. I'm a law school graduate at the moment, and I have four kids. Every year, I've had one kid each year. If God does, there will be more. [[Applause]] By the way, I finished some piloting school, doing some other business. I'm in politics, I'm a member of the SRS, and I'm currently in office as president of the Zemun Assembly. So, next time, Mr. Jokanovic, when you're interested in something from my biography, you can ask me, I'd give you a more general answer. It's not my turn to bother the whole congregation about it right now, but it's short on my biography.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u540	There is a word from MP Milovan Purenovic, and let the MP Tihomir Marjanovic be prepared. I'm sorry, you had to wait for this many lines.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u541	Thank God I finally got my word, after all these long political debates about the University Law by unfinished students or some high school kids. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I'm going to talk today about the University Act, about the autonomy of the university. This law on the university, which is now ahead of us, if it were kept in its original form, would be the true occupation of the Serbian university. It would cause great anger from students, teachers and co-workers of all Serbian universities. With a very skilled policy, you managed to get the students out by meeting you and giving more than any law to students in the course of their exams, and our original idea was to make this law more effective. You have not helped the students, and in this way you have attracted the professors of the university and caused a practical dictatorship over the professors of cleaning that are yet to come, for the rationalization that you will lead. Given what autonomy is, I can see that most of you don't even know what autonomy is and that it's talking about some extreme territoriality and some other stuff. The autonomy of the university is the appearance of a free spirit at the university, that a critical opinion can be made publicly at the university, that scientific polemics, polemics, and everything, normally out of class, in the stands etc. Without it, there is no university progress and no free spirit at Serbian universities. It's very wrong of you to interrupt the speaker in your presentation. It doesn't matter either. What solves the problem of Serbia's university is not this law, but should first be used by this strength and potential, which is at the universities of Serbia, in the sense that all these forces are engaged in solving numerous industrial and other problems in the system, in order to gain more income. Well, when it comes out of social misery, it won't be a problem with studying, because it'll rush to finish college as soon as possible to get a job right away. This is how you solve backwards. This way you will never solve the problem of long-term study. That is why it is necessary, in order to come out of this deadlock, that teachers, teachers, co-workers and students at the universities of Serbia, to resist such an attack by the authorities, educate and launch autonomy committees and fight until the final victory. I have the authority of students at all universities in Serbia and they know what I think about student protest, student public opinion, they know how I feel about the free opinion of the University of Serbia. In this way, you will not close the universities of Serbia and you will not be able to implement the policy you have expressed here, especially radicals, those who laugh on this side. To know that you won't be able to do it, because there's no power that can defeat 9,000 masters and doctors of science and 150,000 students. You will soon fall from power and a new democratic power will come, which will celebrate its first victory by creating a free university.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u542	There is a word from the People's Messenger Tihomir Marjanovic. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Spasoje Krunic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u543	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are talking about a very important law for a country, a law on the university. At first, I want to say that the government, by offering this bill, wants to completely detach the university and take everything into its own hands. Making a law on the university, not consulting and not asking for an opinion from the university, is below any criticism [[overlapping from the hall: Louder.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u544	Please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u545	... It was a moral act to consult with smart people, and they, thank God, are in every university throughout this Serbia. The government cannot say that the university is an illegal representative for the debate, and for whom this law, gentlemen, is proposed. Perhaps there is, perhaps, a ZUR nostalgia, with the intensities that the Academy of Science and the company will come down to the same. I don't know that anywhere in the world the university compares itself to a public enterprise. The bill states that the government appoints and resolves the rector, the board of directors and the board of directors. Furthermore, it shows that the government appoints and relieves the dean, the board of directors and supervisors of the university. Simply, what our people say is cheerful and dress. Namely, the rectors and deans who listen blindly to the government will survive, and those who try to have their own self, their own opinions, will be resolved. The simple question arises -- how can a minister of education know, of thousands and thousands of university professors, who are the ones who deserve to be elected as dean and rector by their work. - Louder voice. Please, I've been listening to you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u546	Please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u547	I'm so cultured, I'll wait for you. I guess that should be the most respected and esteemed professor by his colleagues he's working with. With this concept of law, the government introduces a forced administration of university professors. It's an untrue finding by the government that this law will distance party life from college. No, I don't. On the contrary, through the rector, the dean, the government will realise its party policy. In my opinion, this is how the current political parties from the government -- the SRS, the JUL and the SPS -- are introduced through law into colleges. Again, as you might say, the political resemblance of a professor is entering colleges. It used to be a moral resemblance. Gentlemen, if this law is passed in colleges, there will be obedients, and teachers who have their own self will have to leave the country because they will not allow anyone imposed on them from above to salt their brains. What's going to happen from college, judge for yourself. These days, it is heard from some government officials that this bill has similarity to the law on the University of France. That's not true. I'll give you one example. In fact, there is a university council there, which the minister proposes three candidates for the rector, one of which he chooses. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the government should know that the UNESCO General Assembly, at a meeting from 21 October to 12 November 1996, brought a resolution that should be followed by all participating countries. First, the Resolution, among other things, states that "the autonomy of higher education institutions is the degree of self-management necessary for effective decision-making". Secondly, as for professors and other university staff, the resolution stipulates that they should "participate in the ruling bodies and criticise higher education institutions and that they are also authorised to elect most representatives in academic bodies". Finally, as an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement, I urge the government and MPs to withdraw the University Law from the procedure because it is in the interest of our future.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u548	There is a word from the MP of the people, Spasoje Krunic, to prepare the MP of the people, Dobrivoja Budimirovic, the rapporteur of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u549	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, hope in vain that at least when the university is discussed, there will be a little more domestic education. We heard and I will try not to repeat, not to waste time, that there have been more political but professional comments on the proposed law. That's absolutely not true, considering 80 and some amendments. Let me mention just one of the topics that has been left out, no matter what the amendment has mentioned. We asked as architects to recognize what was always in the law, that teaching at the Faculty of Architecture also contained professional art. This results in recognition of the master’s thesis, etc. It wasn't accepted for unexplained reasons. Of course, it is not the place to explain what architecture is and what all the factors of the education of architects and in the end of their work, ultimately, present - technical, extra-technical, artistic, thought in a ball that nothing can get away with getting a quality architect. I don't know who needs one of these amendments not to accept it, and I don't know who can count on it to benefit students and their education, their future. Of course it's no use and of course it's not good. Of course nothing like that, and there's a lot of it, there's no need to point out today. It is necessary to assess, evaluate, be extremely open, that there is nevertheless certain or unpreparedness or blindness, forgive if it is too difficult to express, because it seems today instead of the language of the university, we are listening unfortunately, by the Government's representative, the gravitation of a handful of hooligans, the acuity, the dispersion, the dispersion, it's all the language that is that and God forbid we already overcome it once. So, gentlemen, it will not be good for students and it is quite without reason to explain that in Serbia there is a very useful "Djurdjevska Rain" and that in Serbia it is very good that students live well, that cabinets, laboratories, colleges, institutes are better equipped, that they are libraries full of books and that everything is simply done to make them more effective. So it is not what is good, but what is good to underline, but it is good to clear the roads and interfere with these ways. The dean therefore chooses from the order of those who meet the conditions, who is the professor. I think it should be known that the dean chooses, although he does, according to certain corrections, if I was able to read well, consults the department as a body, which professors can most radically influence, which and whose fates can be most radically influenced. I'm sorry to remind you, my generation remembers the political commissioners, the dean. My generation knows in the head, in the name of who from Engineering, Construction, Architectural College had to leave the country. My generation with reason for the future of young people is afraid of getting the deans and professors back -- political commissioners. I'm saying, I'm afraid, I'm not, because I'm still hoping that we all won't let it happen together. My generation remembers that in 1963, demanding that in the teaching council, or as it was called at that time, two students were present for proper information, that I was on the verge of exclusion from all universities in the country, because I showed an outrageous insolence. Today, the government, thank God, affirms the presence of students, at least in those areas of decision-making that are suited to young people in the phase of education. Of course politics shouldn't be at the university and of course no one should be afraid of those promises. It needs to be solved everywhere and at every step of the way. When, gentlemen, I was elected to the Architectural Faculty, a secret vote was already established and I was first elected by a secret vote. I'd be less honored today if I'd been chosen by the dean's decision, but I wouldn't mind that either. Of course, the criteria that we in college ask to be more and more sharp at all times, I'm afraid this law is at stake. Speaking of politics, I'm reading, I may not have heard correctly, that there are statements from the university committees of individual parties in the Republic Assembly and the Republic Government. That, of course, isn't SPO and everything I'm saying, I'm saying SPO attitudes. I don't know who needs rehabilitation, sounding, sounding some pictures that there are university committees when there can't be committees of political parties at the university. I think it's another matter of intervening someone else, not mine. So, gentlemen, I've heard and forgive me, I'm going to have to mention it, and I'm trying not to be any replicas, nor am I going to rephrase to anyone to mention a friend and a message to a friend in England. It is not necessary for this congregation to be humiliated by such provocations and such untruths. I read and see that friends from China send messages and that's the thing of whoever receives and who sends messages. In England, Mr. Karadjordjevici, and today you have received a book on Serbian governments, i.e. the governments of Serbia from 805 to today, and the first elder of the then body of the assembly was Karadjordjevic. You'll remember in 2004 and 2005 that what you did today should be a shame. Like it's a shame to invite teachers back, because it's not true. We teachers work very hard under dramatically difficult conditions. And even those amendments that recommend respecting teachingly greater, when they say which number of students can physically survive in the rooms and which number of students can qualify for what is waiting for them, and that is even abolished. Trust me after 40 students in one hall, where the author's work from tables to tables or the author's exercise from tables to tables has no effect and no good student. Let me finally remind you of the naked fact - 29 October 1990, eight years ago, in the SPO programme, and I am free to mention the program, because here is a programme that advocates free education and we are certainly at the point where it is reasonable, appropriate - our programme says "freedom is the strategic interest of the country and the basic lever of its spiritual and moral renewal. The national money allocated to the university does not give the state administration the right to influence its autonomy, development of teaching and scientific research." We're not pulling one of these. When it is in a position to decide, the SPO will demand the withdrawal of the law that you are intending to adopt today.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u550	Thank you. He has the word National MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u551	It's a good thing with every shift as I have the habit of saying, it's not snowing to cover the hill, it's every beast showing its mark. And in the last term, when we adopted the Law on the University, there was also a lot of shouting, that this law was such that the next day would be the collapse of the state, the collapse of the system of education, and that we would get there with some African country at the same level. Now these same people are telling you about this law, the Slavics, this law is attacking the same thing. I must tell you that the Committee has adopted this law with the tolerance of some amendments and that the government has been extremely tolerated. I think it's a very good law that can provide for the next one. First, this law should distinguish work from work. I need to remind you of some data. The teaching staff at universities and in Serbia have this: regular professors 2.258, outstanding 1,500, senior professional associates 87, docent 1,700, assistants with doctorate, lecturers with assistants and magistrates and trainees around 4,000. When you take a percentage by the number of students, I have to say that on average, 11.3 students -- one university professor. Not taking other staff, laborants, technical staff, administrative, financial maintenance, and others, where the number is increasing, it is certain that this number does not have a single country from the Emirates and there is not a single wealthy people, who can pay this much unhappiness and drive, and then ends up regularly 12% of students, that we have been studying for eight years, that we get staff after eight years of study, how many years are the longest students, which is 14 - 15 years old and who pays for it. You keep trying to fight for the students, that the autonomy of the university is taking someone away from you, and I'm going to list next -- I've listed what this law has given you -- university autonomy, freedom of education process, freedom of the scientific process, freedom of scientific truth, freedom of science and professional work, freedom to adopt scientific plans, independence of scientific plans for the freedom of methods in the educational process, freedom of scientific criticism, freedom of scientific expression, freedom of opinion, freedom of belief, freedom of defence and the development of master's and doctoral dissertations. It's at the university. What was given to the students? The right of everyone to education, freedom of thought, disagreement over problems at university and university. Law and freedom of information, participation in the management of universities and universities, the right to decide on study, on material position, on housing issues, on conditions of study, on teaching process, on exams, the right to dissent towards follow-up and the right to disagree with assessments. Is there more autonomy in the world? However, you who are so keenly in favour of explaining that someone has taken away your autonomy, you who speak so much for the students, that this law has brought them where they belong, you have no moment of your ability, and you keep saying that you are university professors, you try to renominate this law, that your creativity, if you have it at all, and you have to improve the text of this law. I must tell you, dear colleagues, you who consider this law to be void, that since the 40th, you have only begun to give your amendments, and that's exactly where the university's management is. You don't care about the students, and I'm saying this for the general public and for the students, that they know that these streetmen, who were taking them out on the streets, haven't given a single amendment for students to get better, they're just looking at themselves, where you're going after this law. It's the government, it's us who had reason to trust these young people, to help those honest and honest people who came to study, finish and engage in the workflows, help and give all the solutions and their suggestions and demands we saw, because we're parents too. That's what we've built into this law. What are you colleagues going to tell those students tomorrow, because only 200,300 people went out on the street today. They didn't listen to you. Even your colleagues didn't come out. Why? I must say, you've forgotten that basic role of yours that you have to educate and educate students. Do you think it's an education to take kids out to the streets, whistle with them, call, hear? That might be your level, and I'll tell you why. You don't trust the government to set up rectors, to set up deans. Who are these people who don't trust their government? What's a handful of people who don't trust the government? Which government doesn't care about being good in one country, being good to the people, being good to the institutions, where's the government? Who are you that the Government trusts you, because what you will explain to the students, what you will explain to the people, what you will explain to your children when you spent five months with children, you were with them, you had no teaching, you did not teach. You don't do science, though. Where are your books? Where's your moral obligation to talk to those kids about some honesty? How did you make up for the exams and teaching you had to teach your children regularly, and how did these children end, or how much did your share in the creation of that generation that studied for an average of eight or more years? Let your conscience think about it, if you have it at all. Next, these street musicians, I'm going to suggest to the government that next to these six universities set up another university of music art, a whistle. It's supposed to be your job, because you don't know how to do anything else. How are you going to explain to us here that your goal and your struggle isn't the only way to find a place for you? How are you going to explain to us that you are so broad-minded and that you think about students, if you haven't given a single amendment at all? One of you said who wrote that bill, university professors, peasant farming cooperatives. I really regret that some, at their level and exposure, would not be able to reach the peasant cooperatives. By underestimating one, he must have found a place for himself there. Is Professor Ratko Markovic or Jovo Todorovic and other people involved in writing this law, don't they mean anything to you? If they are not of your taste, you have the right to deny all their virtues, abilities and creativity because of you musicians. Look how much you've cleared up with your safety to talk about it. I think this law has given an extremely good job for every normal man, that it can separate work from work, that it can separate quality from bofl, that it can separate autonomy from governance, that it can separate morale from immorality, that it can make a commitment from riding and finally, that this law will know who, what, how and how it works? But if someone were to study eight or 12 years for 100 dinars a month, that the people of this Serbia were paying for it, that you were taking them out into the streets and you were just making it impossible for you to study, just as the people today told you your students who came. They've been around for about 30 and 40 years, and that's the one that came up, they've told you today how much you've been with you, how many you've deceived them, and why you haven't tried to sit down these days, to influence where you can, but only to slander the government and this law. On behalf of the Committee, and on my behalf, I suggest that this law be passed, because it is truly extremely good.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u552	Thank you. He has the word National MP Dr. Nevena Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u553	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, as an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement from Gornji Milanovac, as a doctor, so academically educated citizen, as a doctor's daughter, as the grandson of a doctor, who enrolled the Medical Faculty with the first generation of Belgrade medical students and as someone who fights for our country to experience a better future than the present, I want to say this. I remember well the stories of my parents and relatives about how they were at the end of World War II and at the beginning of the university in Belgrade. At the end of the 40th century, my father, my uncle and other members of my family, then students of Belgrade University, from day to day, went to college in the dean for months to look for their name on college lists. They were not the enemies of this country, on the contrary, nor were war criminals, on the contrary, they were educated, young people came from prominent Belgrade families. What's happening here today worries us and fears us, because we feel that there may be a time when certain similar things will happen again in a modern but even more perfided way. These things will happen to our students, but also to many of our respected professors. Expressed in the language of the promoter, i.e. the Government, this law to the average citizen, mostly under-informed, may seem quite acceptable. We warn that his effects will be taken too late, and his consequences will be tragic. So as an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement, let's save our university. Let's do everything we can to keep this law from being passed here today, because it's our duty to our children, our future and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u554	The word has a folk MP, Leposava Milicevic, and let Branislav Ivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u555	Mr. President, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, although the proposal for a new law on the university only adapts the organisation to the most modern civilization and social flows has caused a small number of teachers to the storm of disdain. I followed the discussions closely, and I must admit that instead of the arguments, I almost always found fear. Fear of losing its privilege, fear for its small position, which new winds of transition can blow away. The new law, regulating ownership relations, touched the hornet nest of nepotism, which we are reluctant to talk about publicly, and in the towers we point to the harmfulness of familyism in the scientific and teaching process. Although the fundamental course of the law is to respect that part of UNESCO's recommendations on the equality of youth start-ups, there have been mutilators who laminate over alleged social injustices that this law could provoke. Such ones ignore that both the draft and the legislators are mostly vitally related to the university, that the parents of future academic citizens and that they do not think of working for the benefit of their damage. It is a property of youth to use benefits and the stretching regime of studies spoils them. But we also need to encourage a sense of responsibility for our own destiny in youth, and believe me, whenever a task is seriously set before our students, they have always been successful and above expectations. This will also be the case with a seemingly sharpened study regime. Our threats and sanctions are imposed on us to destroy creative optimism as the quality of the people of this climate. The task of our elders is to create conditions that will preserve the creative enthusiasm, because it is a pledge to the future of this country. The prescribing of numbers enrolled in individual universities is equivalent to the behavior that every good host conducts. It is a guarantee that there will be fewer subsequent disappointments in the employment and apprenticeships are our universities service for experts to those who prescribe our sanctions. There are critics of the new proposal that the profession has run over long ago, so now they've got political clothes on. Such demagogue passwords seek to skew a party point or, vaccinated against patriotism, court some who apply the principle to Yugoslavia - the worse. And what's funny is that most of them just came out under a party vest. The endless extension of studies delays adulthood and creates disproportionateness between mental, physical and social maturity. It all has implications on the demographic plan. According to this issue, we must not be indifferent, because this government creates more far-reaching goals in its current procedures, which, by superficial critics, are afraid of its small feuds in colleges, escapes sight. I'm sure the new law will shorten the time of study. As a doctor, I know what it represents when someone starts specializing in surgery in the mid-30s, and what it's like when it starts in the '40s. If we review the world's scientific journals, we'll see that no one's been looking for doctors for over 35 years. As minister, I'm probably facing the most difficult problem -- the economic aspect of health. For this reason, the critics of the proposed law seem to me to be conservatives, like those who would like to preserve overcome relations. The government is as successful as it reflects the advanced spirit of voters, how it monitors world trends and their reflection on our society. This bill requires time only releases creative energy, introduces a spirit of competition and combat. As is the dominant part of our genetic code, I believe it will be widely accepted by those for which the university exists, and these are our students. A new law, as a rare one, respects the specificities of the university, and a certain grace period allows those a little more comfortable to adapt to new conditions. It's like the end of the millennium has accelerated time. New knowledge arrives at high speed. In particular, in medicine, the textbooks become obsolete on average for five years, and the average study is over 7.5 years. A few words about the social component of this law. He owns protective mechanisms for the widest population of academic citizens. At the same time, he favors quality by preventing undeserved privileges. In the long run, it will contribute greatly to raising the overall quality of knowledge, raising the dignity of university professors, allowing them to be the first among equal in their quality. Understandably, healthy competition does not suit someone who experiences a university career as a lifelong shade. As part of the world, we must be exposed not only to the capital market, but also to the knowledge market. I therefore see this law, which greatly improves our country's strategic position. It has been known before as a nursery of scientists capable of coping equally with world trends in all those areas where the comparative advantages of our population come into expression. The task of our universities is to form experts for the world of the 21st century, a world already networked by the Internet, optical cables, big resolution televisions. And we, fortunately, managed to get involved in these difficult times in these trends. From that cancer, they're retrograde stories about the alleged loss of romantic autonomy. I'm aware that the word " profit" in Semantics is not profitable, but life forces us to see things right through them. Whoever fairly examines what this law adopts will realize that it is a contribution both to the state and national, as well as to the individual plan. The practical application of this law will soon drive away the fear of benevolent critics. And that small number of critics, who, according to their characterological structure, are opposed to everything, will wait for a new opportunity to feed their complexes. I suggest that the law be adopted as a whole, because it represents one human, organisational, social and psychological progress, because it reflects more adequately the moment we live in. The university is a couple of Excellencys of institutions of national interest and no government that cares about its people, so if you want voters, it can't be handed over to an autarchy, anarchocracy of self-invited individuals, who are currently encroaching on the flow of autonomy. Adequate representation in the governing bodies of all interested, from the strudents to the professors, guarantees that all rights belonging to the university segment of our population will be respected. He's a necessary link in a chain that connects us even more closely to the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u556	Thank you. He has the word Minister Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u557	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am listening here to the discussion and I can conclude that, in essence, the opponents for the adoption of this law tend to stick to two things. It's the government's methodology for making this bill, and the other problem is autonomy. I have to realize that the essence of the argument of the enemies is very narrow. When it comes to working methodology, it is a fundamental observation that is not a consulted university. When it comes to autonomy, it mainly pursues the last session of UNESCO. Should we first define what it is and who the Government of the Republic of Serbia is? The government of the Republic of Serbia has been elected by you here, by your majority, by the MPs. National MPs, who named and named their parties, have received support from Serbian citizens to enter parliament. So, in parliament, there is total support for Serbian citizens. The Serbian government was elected by the majority, most of Serbia's citizens' support. The majority, and I would say four-fifths chose those people with whom they wanted to rule Serbia so that they developed it in both economic and social terms. The government had the exclusive right to decide on the way it would present the law. At one time when the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia was being worked, the government decided to go to broad one-year consultations because it was required by the Constitution. Now, after a series of consultations in recent years, which is a major past work at the Ministry of Education, where this law was already present, the government decided to do the law with experts and propose it to the Assembly. But she delivered it to you to the MPs, she's got two weeks. You 250 got that document. That document is not a secret. You all have your electoral units, your citizens. Many of you are also members of the university. No one has ever stopped you from giving this law certain improvements through your amendments. And why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia even approach this law? The government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the functioning of this country, and above all, for its development in both economic and social terms, and there is no development without basic staff, without basic resources, that is the cadre. For this reason, the government of the Republic of Serbia had to define its priority obligation by law on the university, which is the continued security of all activities in the economy, social activity, quality of staff. That's why this law was made. This law was defined by the state university and defined by private universities. The state university is the government's obligation to continue delivering personnel, which are necessary for the country's development. What do you think the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted with its proposal to destroy its main source of the most important resources, which are qualified young people. And she was just doing the law to ensure that she was revolving, re-affirming the primary task of the university, which is teaching and scientific work, because in many areas the task was forgotten. When it comes to autonomy, it is defined as a possibility for university members, or its employees, to choose most academic bodies, and what is the basic academic body in one university. This academic body of one university is a teaching-science higher university, and the law makes it clear that the teaching-science major university is formed by proposing at least one member at a teaching-science higher university. So, all the representatives of the university's teaching and scientific higher university, the highest academic body, are 100% selected from the university, teachers, co-workers of the university. It's the best-quality solution and there's basic autonomy. A member of the teaching and scientific council is a rector and is a proctor, but they do not have the right to vote, because the autonomy of the university is being preserved. And the focus of the interest of this government, this society, where a basic task is put in place, which is teaching and scientific work is the greatest improvement of teachers and associates, in order to give as much quality work as possible, it may be ugly to say, a product, but this country needs modern, young experts, highly educated, in all spheres of life, from art history to high technologies, accelerators and all that is done in the Vinca Institute. Therefore, not to laminate over autonomy, autonomy by the definition of UNESCO -- as said here -- means the right of employees to choose their representatives in the highest academic bodies. The most academic body of the university is a teaching-science major university, the most academic body of the university is a teaching-science higher university, and do you know who makes it by law - made by all employees in one institution and university. Has anyone here challenged autonomy and what is being solved at the scientific and teaching councils of colleges and universities? Educational plans and programmes, graduate classes, curricula and programmes for specialization, master's degree, PhDs, the impact of individual subjects, the change of the course fund, the reaffirmation of certain parts of the material, the obligation of teachers to perfect themselves and to provide new parts of the material, at least 20% each year in their curricula and programme. Is it against students, is it against the development of this country? That's where the scientific work plans are brought in, that's where the verification of these plans is done, and that's where the realisation of these plans is controlled. Is there any other task more important to the university and university than that? There isn't. This is being resolved at the university, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes in this law that is now before you. Full autonomy, maximum security and leave to people of profession, specialists, top experts from all fields, educated, science, and here you are gentlemen, working in the interest of this nation, working in the interest of this country, developing staff as modern and better. The government of the Republic of Serbia is funding a university from two sources, financed by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science and Technology. The government of the Republic of Serbia has already paid the first part of April for science, and do you know that the economy that separates it from the budget, when and how much it has received, is January or February. Because it stands maximum for education to this country and for education and development of scientific work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u558	Please, there's no replica, be kind and sit down. Please, we need to figure out a way to get back to work. ) There is a proposal to continue to work, to complete this agenda. That's a suggestion. I ask the Members to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 127 voted against 23, the abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 159 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We continue to work, I ask the Aministrative Committee to step down and do this part of the work it has, and Master Branislav Pomorski answered. Let the MP Dr Radoslav Jovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u559	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after this high-level dialogue between the students and these self-taught ones, I don't know how I'm going to succeed in this discussion, but I'm going to try to say something about a law that's on the agenda. So, as Mr. Minister of Education has said, we now have inefficient studies, with poor selection of scientific and student personnel. Let me tell you right now, after this new law, we're going to have an even smaller and worse network of universities and colleges, and I'd say more about the selection of scientific and student personnel. Try to see how that selection goes. In their opening statement, two introductions tried to confiscate and intertwine over some particulars, which did not reflect the essence of this law, to bring us down from its spine, essentially, and the essence of this law is who and how it decides on important university, university, scientific, professional and humane matters. Imagine when everything's under the Minister of Education's boot. He chooses the rector, rectors the dean. Who isn't in that structure of government like that, there's no such thing as that. If that's what it was going to do, then there could be another member who could, for example, introduce acts in scientific personnel, so, for instance, the rector could be the Colonel General of Science and Education, dean majors, etc. However, how should this law be observed? This law does not, individually, cause as much damage as it covers the area it regulates. However, it is only one in a package of other laws that leads to the absolute centralisation of state and political authorities in this country. So, the citizens couldn't understand the true essence of this law, then it comes to the conclusion that this law is also one in a set of laws that should ensure the absolute centralisation of political authority in this country. Why does she need it? We've entered the transition process. Many of the countries, which were and have gone from the same point that we started from, have recently moved away. What's going on with us? We have far more important laws than this, which concern the essence of our citizens' lives. That, as good as we are now or not, our citizens can see when they turn around, when they see how much their incomes are and when they can figure out, in every environment, that there were never so few rich and so many poor in the history of this country. To go back to this law and this topic. Why is it necessary to centralize the authorities? It is also needed to bring material goods transfers to an end in this country. In order to do so, all entities that, eventually, and in a certain way, can prevent such a single process must be eliminated. In that context, I am looking at a slightly broader essence of this law. Simply, if it is adopted, it will allow in its segment that such a process, which has long been initiated, is to be completed. There's something called an axiom, which is that it's the foundation of scientific creation that's primarily the autonomy of the university. There were words and interpretations here, and taught and self-taught, about what autonomy of the university was. The autonomy of the university means freeing the spirit of the people who deal with this matter. The spirit of humans cannot be freed if there is absolute vertical control in the human sense. It's just that this law provides. I would refer to what Mr. Pressman said. He says that we must no longer allow that because individual students belong to certain political parties, they cannot pass certain exams, because teachers belong to other political options. He did not say the other end of the problem, how many students who had never seen books or exercises or lectures had passed exams because it belonged to a particular political party and a particular political option. Furthermore, I would also like to refer to the government's representative's presentation, which says, that there is a very consequential part of the issue in the law that the opponents are objecting to. Then that's where he listed the methodology and autonomy. Methodology and autonomy represent four fifths of this law and its essence. Therefore, as a representative of the political option of coalition "Vojvodina", I propose that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, that it sit with those most tangling it, which are students and professors, to complete certain provisions that would remove these absolute anomalies and that such a harmonised law be re-engaged in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u560	There is a word from the MP, Dr Radoslav Jovic, to prepare MP Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u561	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, before the court of history Socrates went much better than before the court of Athens democracy. Civilised humanity celebrates it as the first martyr of freedom of thought. It shows a man who put his moral beliefs above everything else, even above the orders of the state government and who preferred to be sentenced to death rather than sin over his conscience. "By standing up against the state power on behalf of the moral autonomy of individuals, he asked a question about the relationship between politics and morality. And ever since he set it up, it's been standing still open." This is a quote from the history of political doctrines of our great man Slobodan Jovanovic, for the unintelligible. And here we are today in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we representatives of the people should discuss the Law on the University. Between Socrates and his time and this moment in which we take part, centuries have passed, but the dilemma remains, what is more powerful: the raw power and the will of certain powerful men or the power of morality, truth and argument? On purpose and consciously this law that we need to talk about today, I am raising to this level, because I know that the government of this country has proposed it, behind which is a set of 180 and more parliamentary votes, which, unfortunately, because of party discipline and obedience today will win, by who knows which time, the power of argument. I have no doubt that this assembly will vote it, but it exists in our language and that word "but" that speaks a lot for itself to smart people. Will this law be brought to life, if by the power of the state institutions we will apply it and make it another evil in this country, which will divide us even further, dig deeper trenches among us and be the cause of unpredictable conflicts. Neither of us 250 MPs are smart enough, nor are we all together to oppose social laws, the real needs of people, and the arrangement of society that imposes itself as a need. And what the promoter is doing today, I mean the Serbian government, is nothing more than imposing solutions that have been overcome and that our highest scientific and educational institution, like the university, but also society in general returns to the period of command socialism. It is clear to all of us that the proposer under the state control of the university, for the sake of the sovereign right of the founder to control the capital that he is directing there, wants nothing more than to control and to establish strong control over the greatest minds this country has. The system is vulgar how simple it is. The government, in the translation of the party in power, will give money to the university, but because of that money that the truth works and is not money from party memberships, neither current or future parties in power, but folk money, will set up university rectors, they decans, and they will choose professors in such a order. The results are clear and the target is clear. The regime will make the university the largest party organisation in Serbia, and of the greatest minds of this people, obedient officials. So in this country, every spark of freedom is extinguished, all those minds that should by definition be the creators of society and the employers to us MPs, how to edit our society. As an MP, I'm not ashamed to ask the professors of the university what kind of law I should vote for. That's why I'm going back to Socrates. The centuries have passed. His name is pardoned today. Why? Because he defended morality, truth and justice. His murderers were forgotten, covered by the dust of history. And if we pass a law like this today, for just a moment there will be a triumph over the naked force from the collection of loyal MPs, but we and this law will be covered by historical dust much sooner than in the case of Socrates' murderers. The dust will cover us before this law even takes effect. So it won't be like we're just criticizing, we're from the SPO, and we'll propose. First, you gentlemen MPs who are to support this law today, avoid the idea that your collection is sufficient to do so, because as much as tomorrow, you may be a parliamentary minority in this house, so this law will not suit you at all, as you will not be eligible for the information law, the judiciary, the electoral law, and I am not listing the mass of the laws you have forged or tailored, not to better regulate your life in the country, but rather to manage it as if it were a public enterprise. Think of your future, your children and grandchildren. And if for nothing else, you won't be sitting in those unfortunate chairs forever because of the biological laws. All of us end up covered by two feet of land. Secondly, on behalf of this first thing I said, pull the law out of the procedure and make his suggestion to make people of the university, people who are both powerful and stronger than us politicians, let our children, who are there to acquire knowledge and skills, become experts, but also free-minded people. The only right we have as legislators is to treat household income as good hosts. The government needs to look at a few facts. First, how much money can be sold out for the needs of the university. Secondly, what professional and scientific potential our country currently has and what real needs are in the future, given the different strategic needs in various areas of social life. Third, based on the first two elements, to assess how many university centres this country needs, how many colleges and what profiles of experts we want to study from the state register. Based on this to make a network of higher education institutions and to make it clear by law - the needs of this people and these countries are at this moment such and such, we need such and such personnel. For these purposes, this nation can allocate so much and so much resources. This is where the witness ends. The legislator has set his goals and possibilities. Everything else goes to market. The state must support quality, quality colleges, quality professors, associates and students. The rest of you, get your hand in your pocket, so you can play study and study at your expense. I'm against this bill not only because it doesn't agree with my party's programme, but also because as a man, I can't support what has no perspective and foundation in the permanent principles of society organisation, and mostly because in this country no one is blackmailing children tomorrow and grandkids with party belongings, so they can get a chance at all to school, feel free to become professors of universities, deans and rectors, so unfortunately they get bread in it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u562	The People's Messenger Veroljub Stevanović has the word, "Let the Messenger of the People Ispanovich Istvan be prepared."
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u563	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've heard a lot today, and we can't be surprised by the miracle. We have two absolutely different options. So, we've heard from several professors at the University of SpO, the party I belong to and we'll hear from them. Thank God, there's a lot of them in our MP club. We heard Mr. Budimirovic, who doesn't understand anything in this law, but that's why he can insult students and all of us from other parties. We have heard and heard to the Lord the Radicals, and it is good to hear them; let the people hear, and let them consider all that was in the past elections, and whether it was good. We also heard Mrs. Gorica Gajević, who said - the public and the profession said theirs. They said, the universities said, the students said, and today we've been defeated, Mrs. Gajevic, once again the pendrek came across the index. Yeah, it's hard, but that's right. We also heard the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vlatka (Ratka) Markovic, who said, among other things, that the colleges had strayed from the authorities and the people. The professor of the university identifies authority and people. Second, worse -- they've gone rogue. So, the hiduks are, the outlaws are all those who don't think like them, so they're also at the Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac, at my mother's college, that's teaching higher which gave a negative opinion to this law are hiduks, students are hiduks. Aren't you, Mr. Vlatko (Ratko) Markovic, strayed from reality. Maybe it is. (Glass: It's not Vladko, it's Ratko.) What this bill is really about. It doesn't matter the name, it matters what he says. You won't confuse me, gentlemen of the radicals. You all don't have 10 years of college, except for two or three, so you can't confuse me. What exactly is this bill? I'm going to try a very simple Serbian language to say how I feel about this. So, what did this law really want? This is either nonsense or evil intent, or both. Why stupid? Well, what else. If, therefore, this government is seen as it is, with this composition as it is, with ministers from primary to higher education, then it is clear to everyone that this government is not competent to elect a rector, dean, board of directors and supervisory board. So it's probably someone else, it's certainly colleges, it's definitely university. What did you just want? It was just wanted, Mr. Minister, former vice president of the Assembly, that someone who is a member of the Serbian Radical Party, or someone who will be a member of the JUL or a member of the Serbian Radical Party, was about to be elected. Isn't that stupid, we have to ask ourselves? (Glasses: A SPS. It is, but at the same time it is an evil intention. What did you just want, what do you want? There will be absolute power over the university, over the Serbian mind. Because the university is, like everything you've driven out of this country, salty Serbian minds. What's the point, we have to ask ourselves. Someone came up with the idea that he's strictly mind-controlling and knowledge-oriented at universities and directs them as needed. Nonsense, heavy and serious nonsense and evil intentions, the evil combinations of the Serbian Radical Party, JUL and SPS, if you want to hear it. This is, I think, a real description of the content of this bill. So, stupidity, heavy and big, and evil intentions, evil combinations of these three parties. Someone will say, and I absolutely agree with that -- what you gentlemen expected, if you knew what would happen, it's not clear to you what would happen, that even worse things would come. Milan Christmas just mentioned one thing. It may be that you pass here and the church law, that you propose to choose both bishops, perhaps the patriarch. He's particularly concerned about the media campaign you conducted on RTS and through surveys you've had with alleged students on the street. As the sentence of Mr Ratko Markovic (can't remember his name) sounds so firm that politics at the university is disabled. How is it possible that this is how it happens? What exactly is the truth? The legal and uninterrupted functioning of certain parties at the university has been enabled. The absolute control of the Serbian Radical Party, the JUL and the SPS, of course, through the rector, the dean, the board of directors and supervisors. So everything's under control, absolutely control. Each of the workers must be on the line, as you formerly said. What does all this look like? The answer is clearly imposed, looks like something unseen, unrecorded, backwards and incomprehensible. So where's the university's autonomy? That's the question you kept asking, so you asked for at least one detail about it. The government elects a rector, the government chooses a dean, the government chooses a board of directors, the government chooses a supervisory authority. So, the executive body, the administrative authority, the supervisory authority, it's all government. Where's the autonomy? Answer me. What's the question now is, in fact, it's in Serbia. The answer is that only God knows what an unwise person can come up with and impose. In the Kragujevci case, for a while, I'll tell you what can happen. In Kragujevac, for example, secondary education cannot be accepted by a cleaning woman unless she is a member of a particular party. In Kragujevac, on 6 May, there was a big hajka on the student or student, who received the first prize for written work, since in the opinion of some active teacher, it is a political pamphlet. The Commission was made up of smart people, professors of literature and other writers, etc. So that's what it's going to look like, I think, and the university. One explanation we heard here, I would deliberately comment on him, which Mr. Vukic once again said here, I also heard him in the Federal Assembly when he repeated it. They say unequivocally -- we want control and it's absolute, because apparently we -- so the government, we give money to the university. What money, we wonder whose money? Where'd you get the money? Is that what this government has earned? Is that the money from the budget? He has the right to have it over him. No government at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what must be done in my opinion. First, the present and obvious nonsense should be prevented and disabled, I mean the total stupidity that is permanently launched by this government. However, stupidity is unlimited, but it must be prevented when it threatens to endanger something as important and significant as in this case. Secondly, I do not understand the intention, as well as the future evil intentions that this government is surely following, should also be revealed and prevented, because otherwise, it is total, quite close to us. So, gentlemen of the government, listen to a little people, public opinion, and you'll get it. Keep in mind the words of the song, whoever does not listen to the song, will listen to the storm. Listen on the street. A song began at the universities. There may be a storm that can blow you away. And, don't forget, the power of mind cannot be overcome, especially by the unholy force of a small, too little mind of the government that, unfortunately, we have.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u564	National MP Budimirovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u565	First of all, believe me, I haven't insulted my students for a moment, and that would never occur to me. On the contrary, I helped these people with my amendments and helped improve their position at the university. Second of all, what the militia beat up with peddlers, it didn't beat up on students. They're a bunch of hoodlums. The students are now learning and preparing a June test deadline. Next, how much did you say you were a professor at the Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac? How come your daughter went to study with Americans? Which isn't a smart dad to pass on knowledge to a child, because you owe so much to the Kragueva economy, they'll probably remember you for a long time. In the end, where the government's money came from - money is to the government of the people. But you didn't say where you got $52,000 every year to pay for your daughter in America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u566	MP Veroljub Stevanovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u567	This isn't a street noise, this is a hearing room. Gentlemen, you're gonna have to listen to me for a minute. So I won't answer anything to Mr. Budimirovic. My daughter is an exceptional student. My daughter has a scholarship to college. My daughter was personally signed by Clinton in high school after the fourth year of high school. Gentlemen, tomorrow's the second day of the session, you'll get it, and you'll see, if you're interested. So you're not for the West, you're for China, I know that, but I wanted to say something else. I wanted to take advantage of the right to a replica, you see that you can't unfocus me, there's no way, but just before I was referred to a sting by Mr. Nikolic, and it was intentional, I want to use it to answer him. Mr. Nikolic, you know it's not true what you said, but as a man and you and Mr. Tomovic were obliged to still be with the employees of the Purpose, to see them starving, to help them, that help is necessary. I was expecting to see you. So it's true that they've made some efforts to get things over with with on purpose. But you forgot to say, that the same thing, perhaps a little more effort has been made by the City Assembly, along with the people of the factory to overcome the problem and that even some means that it has or is saving and is thinking about the funds, paid in advance to the factory to pay certain salaries to the workers. So that's true. So please don't make those insinuations. You know very well that they are not accurate, as you know very well about the situation in Kragujevac, especially when considering the employees of the Purpose and Workers of the flag. More importantly, I'd like to see you in Kragujevac as soon as possible, especially Mr. Tomovic, and I'll talk about it when that sales tax or goods tax bill comes in. When the air of Belgrade gets a little high, the man even withdraws his bill, because he is now in the government, and he wrote it along with us when he was an MP, and it's about working on the gigs. So, along with us when he was an MP. So that's some truth about Kragujevac. Don't talk about someone standing behind a strike, because this is what the employees of the Task Force listen to, who know very well who's on that strike and who's behind that strike. It was my human duty to help them, and personally, and as president of the City Assembly and the entire City Assembly, that's the real question. You could have also been down there, only to help them with your presence.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u568	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, Deputy Prime Minister - Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u569	Perhaps, Mr. Stevanovic, I could have been down there, but I couldn't afford 12 million dinars for Purpose. It's being provided in Belgrade. What happened in Kragujevac, you say? When you took power in Kragujevac, after three days in Radio Kragujevac, a list of 40 unwanted cleaning women, couriers, tons, cameramen and journalists appeared on the advertising board, which you will no longer see on the radio. That's what happened when you took over, Mr. Stevanovic. What am I gonna do? Here, I promise you that now. I'm going to do everything I can to keep your friend, who you've promoted to the council president's advisor, from getting the right to upgrade floors at the Peco store. You asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be your friend. What else am I going to do, Mr. Stevanovic? Of course, when workers strike hunger, there's nothing to look for. If memory serves you well even when I was an opposition MP, I never once appeared at the meetings that were held by the employees of the Purpose. What do you tell a man who strikes hunger? To tell him not to strike, it's his personal choice. Tell him to strike, make him die. What am I supposed to do there? I don't know how to make guns. That's what my late father did. Why did I tie it to you? This independent union, which organizes it, has been on your election list all along, along with you, taking part in the election as your candidates. How else am I supposed to interpret that? How do I interpret that? How do I interpret that? What you're saying is that you've been doing a little bit of a small-time community aid to Purpose, who's now out of funds in that community? Is it a labor club or one of the privilegeds that you're giving away money to? Mr. Stevanović, I am very happy to share with you the views of the Kragujevac Assembly, and I think that's where the Kragujevac is spoken of, and this is about a really serious law that you've discussed very unseriously. I even heard you say that at your mother's college, so many government members thought you were a professor at Engineering College. You're not a professor, but you could be. You're having such an unargumented discussion about this law that you look like many professors who have discussed the law in the last 10 days, but none of these professors wanted in front of television cameras on a direct show with any member of the government to discuss the law on the university. Out of the O.R. to kick him out. Why throw him out? If he's gonna kick him out, he's gonna kick him out whenever he wants, but it's not about getting kicked out and don't be afraid at all that you're gonna get kicked out of college. How many times does it take for every government official to repeat to you that no one will interfere with what you teach your children and that no one will interfere with what grades you give them, but you will be terribly involved in it if you are involved in politics within regular working hours at the university. You will be terribly involved in this if you prevent your children from listening to lectures or giving exams. I'm telling you, as long as there's this government, a professor who keeps the kids from finishing college from being a regular professor. A regular professor will be the one who will allow children to learn and who will evaluate children.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u570	National MP Slobodan Tomovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u571	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, when Veroljub Stevanović makes this turn out to be in Kragujevac, I usually don't respond to them, because there's a way of knowing who is who and how specific the weight is, but when he talks about it here, then for the sake of your information, for the sake of the public and those who follow this session, I am obliged to say the following. I did not attend meetings related to the problem of the Purpose Factory because these meetings were organised by the SPO, and I am not a member of that party, and I am not a member of that union either. If I had been called by the management of the flag, I would certainly have attended these meetings, counting that as a member of the government I could do with a leadership that is only competent to find a solution. It is also a known example from the history of emperors who burned the city to experience ecstasy, not to say anything else. Such an emperor exists in Kragujevac as an on-call arsonist who fires fires, and then comes to play firemen. That's how it was in case of manipulation with students who were gallanting around the city, and then came to the Assembly of the Municipality building to calm them down. That's how it was now with the intentional, because we found the money to add something else that will calm these people down to stop strike, and I now expect that, probably, since the municipality has decided to solve it itself, we'll find a solution for Romania at the same time, and she needs money for the Robna house, and she needs money, and for the flag of cars, because they need money there too. We're not just gonna give it to Purpose, we're gonna give it to the others, if that's the problem we want to solve. So much for this in the first part that I was called for a replica. As far as the law is concerned, when Mr. Stevanovic speaks of it, I reserve the right to replicate then. Once again, I apologize for having to abuse your patience and take time for such trivial things. (Stevanovic approaches the speaker. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u572	Mr. Stevanović, you didn't get the word. You're the one who caused the replica. There is a word from the People's Messenger Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u573	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, today this high house is discussing not just any legal project, but a bill of one law that has great importance in every country and which will leave a deep mark on our future. During the decision-making process, we should not let out that many generations who come to the studies will feel the good or bad consequences of our decision. At first, we must say that we disagree deeply with the government's proposed law. We don't agree for any more reason. First of all, we disagree with the way the proposal was made because the proposal was made without consulting the universities, i.e. No teachers, no co-workers and no students. Regardless of the government's authority to propose laws, universities had to be involved in making the proposal, given the importance of the matter that regulates very important relations in society. Secondly, we do not agree that such a law is passed quickly, without the possibility of wider consultations and MPs themselves with universities and universities and leaving enough time to prepare quality amendments on a legislative proposal. Thirdly, we disagree with the very concept of law, because it abolishes university autonomy as one of the basic civilization flows. Universitys and universities are placed under the custody of a state or if you want a government, which is uncompromising and unacceptable in a democratic society. It wouldn't be good to be ashamed later that we gave our vote for a legal project like this. Now a few words about the very text of the law. Article 5, paragraph 1, reads "university and college have educational and scientific autonomy", and then is immediately added "in accordance with the law". These two last words "in accordance with the law" define the basic rule and the principle of autonomy of education and scientific work, because other provisions of the law show that there is nothing left of these principles in the law. The legislative proposal says "the university's rector appoints and resolves the government, members of the Management Board appoints and resolves the government" and the same text refers to both the dean and the board of directors of the university. In the current public statements of government members, these solutions are justified by normal practice in the world. This world practice is codified, among other things, at the UNESCO Central Conference, which has already been said here, so I would like to quote again, and I don't think it's too bad for me to give another quote from that conference. "Autonomy is the degree of self-management of higher education institutions that is necessary for the effective decision-making of academic work, academic standard, governance and all other functions consistent with the public responsibility system, especially in institutions financed from the state budget." The same conclusion also states "high school teaching staff must have the right to elect most representatives in academic administrative bodies within their academic institution". So it's easy to prove that the proposal for a law on the university severely violates the principle of autonomy of the university, and that practice at other state universities in the world is quite different than it wants to be introduced by the government. Universitys and colleges are not ordinary businesses, as the government wants to present it, giving the rectors and deans unlimited powers, which means possible bias. Any comparison of universities or universities and businesses is unacceptable. It is beyond any doubt that companies are founded in order to generate profits. I hope that universities and colleges are not founded for this, but for other purposes entirely. The special chapter represents the choice of teachers where the university dean receives such powers as are unacceptable and may pose a danger to long-term degradation of teaching and scientific work, and may be an introduction to the negative selection of teaching and scientific staff. The law also contains discriminatory provisions for national minorities, which are treated as citizens of the second order. That's what I'll talk about when we discuss the amendments. For all of these reasons, I suggest that the Government withdraw its proposal and approach a new legislative proposal based on the remarks we have heard here today.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u574	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic, and let Dr Milena Andric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u575	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Vojislav Seselj that the universities in Serbia are a matter of crime, corruption and nepotism, is the greatest insult to our science and culture. Nothing similar has been reported in the entire history of higher education in Serbia. While you're in...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u576	Please don't disturb the speaker. Let him, he has the right to say.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u577	You know what, fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I expected at least from members of the ministerial cabinet, or members of the government a certain degree of culture, and the Deputy Prime Minister told the MP - that he was distracted in the development, I didn't expect that. While in the election campaign Mr. Vojislav Seselj fought for voters' votes, he promised more loud than anyone that his party would strike those who stole.... Please, Mr. President, calm the minister. Calm down, Minister of Government... Citizens of Serbia, I must inform you - the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are making it impossible for me as a national MP to discuss. While in the election campaign he fought for the voter's vote, Seselj promised more loudly than anyone that by coming to power, his party would strike at those who stole the savings roles of citizens, robbed pension funds and took possession of almost all the natural resources of the state.... Now from the position of power, Mr. Seselj for the bariactors of corruption, robbery, declares poor professors at the university, whose salaries are more than miserable, and the social situation demeaning. Just these days, while Mr. Seselj is collapsing at university professors, he was sent from Zemun by convoys of speedboats to Seselj's posters, various propaganda materials and special editions of the Serbian Radical Party newspaper....
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u578	Mr. Jovanovic, stick to the agenda. Please be quiet. Don't throw it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u579	.... I'm sticking to the agenda. I'm talking about students of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Nikolic and Mr Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u580	It is my right to warn an MP who does not adhere to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u581	In the same way, he recently buried Serbia. For these self-regulatory purposes alone, Seselj spent one-off money. From where? You know that better than I do... He spends more on TV tapes than Belgrade University of Scientific Projects... From the money...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u582	Please, don't disturb the speaker, let the MP finish his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u583	..... There's another side. From the money Mr. Seselj collected by publishing...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u584	Please, Mr. Jovanovic, I warned you. Don't talk... The university law is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u585	I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u586	Don't hang on, you're talking about Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u587	I'm sorry, I... The Belgrade University's housing problems would have been solved -- I came back on the subject. The Serbian Renewal Movement, gentlemen, does not consider it necessary to retain the old University Law, which, as the only system law in the field of education and education, retained self-government relapses. That's what MPs here are best aware of. If an analysis of the political commitment and political activity of university professors is carried out, it is well known that, let's say, my university of origin, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, that Vice President Nikolic does not think that I too boast that I am a professor of the university, but is parent in the sense that I have finished it, occupied by the Civil League of Serbia. For example, one minor political party, which has no influence on the electoral body and has no representatives in the Republic Parliament. So, we have no idea, from the Serbian Renewal Movement, that we are in favour of self-government at the university, but we cannot accept either adoption or adoption of a new proposed law that will be worse than an old, existing law. There was an atmosphere at the universities.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u588	Don't look back, they'll deconcentrate you, I can't empty the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u589	I'm sorry, I'm a first-time MP, and I've never been to a session. I didn't know some MPs were acting like this. I did not calculate with such education and education of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u590	Please, you can only talk about individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u591	The university announces protests...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u592	So you're talking about individuals, not parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u593	..... At the universities, the atmosphere erupted, protests were announced, strikes, suspension of teaching, we hear that there was an intervention by the Ministry of the Interior and how much damage students and their parents would suffer, by delaying the June exam deadline. Due to all this, we are proposing that the new law on the university be passed during the second regular session of the National Assembly at the beginning of the next school year, and that public debate be held before that in a peaceful and tolerated atmosphere, with the participation of representatives of both Belgrade and other universities and Kragujevac.... (Toma Nikolic: throws out of town - let me, there's Seselja) and the entire academic public. As government rapporteur, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Dr. Ratko Markovic said that some professors have abused their professorial position and status of the university and have become prominent officials and political activists of their political parties. I don't just know if the respected professor was thinking of himself or perhaps a colleague of Professor Stambuk, who is also a prominent political activist, and as far as I know, a professor of Belgrade University. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, I have not heard that there is also a university professor who is a member of a senior forum of the Serbian Radical Party, but we were also informed in 1992 that the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Seselj, has been appointed and elected as a regular professor of Law-Making course at the Faculty of Law in Pristina. (Toma Nikolic throws out of place - that's not true. I really may not have been informed whether he kept the status of professor or not, and I don't read Greater Serbia, so I don't mind. Therefore, Professor Markovic, do you think that university professors are also subject to the principle of equality, that they can become high-ranking officials and political activists, both ruling and opposition parties. I must commend Professor Markovic whose textbook Constitutional Law I recently examined, and the infamous textbook Constitutional Law of the aforementioned Professor Jovan Djordjevic, by whom I had laid down, may have shortened my life in a year. (Toma Nikolic throws out of place - which hasn't cut your life short forever. Tomo, you've never even seen it, let alone read it. Mr. Stevo Dragisic, who, before his replica, thought that in the first year of his presentation of my colleague, Jokanovic, the unfinished student of the Faculty of Law, had said that he was an graduate, so in a replica of the reporter of our parliamentary group to Dr. Ivan Kovacevic, he said - how to advocate some laws that were in force a hundred years ago. [[Applause]] If he finished his first year of Law School, he knows that some legal institutes have been in force since the Roman Law, for two millenniums, if he had laid the Constitutional Law with the respected Professor Markovic, he could have learned where the American Constitution was brought into existence, because Americans don't think about bringing a new constitution, because it's been 100 years since the adoption. Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u594	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u595	Mr. Professor Dr. Stambuk, also when they look back at the presentation of Professor Kovacevic, said Nikola Pasic was not elected because he was not in love with authority, so in that sense...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u596	Mr. Jovanovic, would you be so kind as to finish?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u597	They took five minutes from me.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u598	No, I didn't measure.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u599	I end up with two sentences (heard from the hall and laugh).
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u600	Please be kind, over, Mr. Jovanovic, you've overstepped a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u601	We are referring to the 20th century tradition because in 1905 the University Act, which Kovacevic quoted...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u602	Mr. Jovanovic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u603	The Prime Minister was Nikola Pasic, and if you inherit the traditions of radicals and Nikola Pasic, support the concept of the law, and Mr. Stumbuk, the government of Milan Obrenovic, which was a tyrant, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u604	Mr. Jovanovic, please, it's time, be kind. There's a word from MP Vladimir Stambuk, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u605	A hundred years ago, it wasn't 1905. The Honorable MP spoke of the Law a hundred years ago, and secondly, as far as my political engagement was concerned, he was out of college, and during the strike, I was teaching classes, exams, and I acted like every normal teacher, and I thought everyone else should do the same. The last thing, please, is very much being manipulated by the world here. The U.S. must have a lot of mediocrity. First, in the United States there are private and state colleges and these state colleges belong to both states, or even less, so-called regions. Every year they discuss competitions, name rectors, professors and the longest name them for three years, not more than three years, and every year or just a year. Therefore, there the state or private owner regulates not who will be the dean, not who will be the professor, but every year they go to re-election, each year they are named and then, if so, if you think that the state is creating fools, because it appoints rectors, the United States has a lot of idiots, very much incompetent, very retarded, and if some MPs here are calling for their children, a certificate, from one of the most famous American scientists, and he's called President Clinton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u606	Please, Stevo Dragisic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u607	A respected fellow from the SPO spoke of some legal institutes that have been in force for 2,000 years since the Roman Law. Is it true that such institutes still exist, just didn't say which institute was abolished by this university law? None. If it is already talking about the existence of legal institutes and their justification in time, it should answer the question whether we should now restore the principle of unequal voting rights, that women have no right to vote, that certain social layers of the population lose their right to vote or that women have no right to inherit. They're legal institutes that were in place 100 years ago. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, I'd like to draw attention. The Faculty of Law enrolls about 2,500 to 3,000 students in Belgrade, finishes about 500 to 600, and sometimes more, and some of those who finish, some master, a small number of doctorates, some are employed as directors, as civil servants, and some are employed as sealing fathers. This fellow lawyer reminds me of this last category, where he can beat the seals somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u608	Thank you, MP Zoran Jovanovic - a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u609	Comrade Dragisic, if we want an expert debate, graduate and talk about legal institutes. Secondly, I'm a graduate lawyer with an average of 9.70, I'll get a index or a diploma tomorrow. [[Applause]] Three, ten years I was a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u610	He has the word Stevo Dragisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u611	Mr. Jovanovic, this university law is being passed today precisely because we wouldn't be such lawyers with an average score of 9.70, which can only stamp.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u612	Dr Milena Andric has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nenad Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u613	Dear colleagues and colleagues, all attempts by the government and its spokesmen to orchestrate the integrity of the defence, both the reasons for the hasty adoption and the alleged quality of the university law cannot hide the true essence of this hitting on the remaining traces of democracy. It remains, as in the story of the emperor's suit, the new suit, the naked truth that the law should party discipline the university, punish the rebels, remove the insubordination, permanently root out what is called their own opinion. The fact that some of the vice-presidents of the government, who defends the law by claiming that they are, in fact, removing the final traces of self-government. Or that everywhere in the world, the right of the boss to decide everything that belongs to him, because it's his money. I remind this assembly, in which we represent the people, not our party leaders, that the university is funded by all, every citizen of this country, not by the government or by its minister. Well, it doesn't stand out, I guess the government's got money. It's not hers, and it's not hers that separates her from her mouth to give to the ungrateful and insubordination university. At the same time, members of the government would have to stop acting on the principle of "the state is me". State, these are all its citizens and the university belongs to them, folks. On behalf of the basic democratic principles, freedom and autonomy of the university, as the most important national institutions, and the Democratic Alternatives, which the citizens voted for by choosing me in Parliament, I demand that the draft law be removed from the Assembly's agenda, that all those to whom it relates, and above all, authentic representatives of the university, as well as other national institutions, be included in the draft law. Before considering the draft law before the Assembly, it shall organise and conduct a broad debate on it and only on the basis of the consent of the participants to be adopted. I give up the right to replicate everything that would have been told me after this step. To all those who, against reason and all that is civil defense, do not forgive the right time and future generations. I just remind myself that we are sitting here as representatives of all Serbian citizens, not this or that party leadership, and that no citizen has voted here because he has been promised to abolish the autonomy of the university and to force the obedience and punishment of those who think they have the right to still think.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u614	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u615	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here, let's see.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u616	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will read Article 102. Rules of Procedure. "During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech." I ask you, Mr. President, to allow everyone to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u617	He has the word of the People's Messenger Nikola Jovanovic, let Dr Zvonimir Budic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u618	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the government, for the first time I have spoken, so it is my turn to introduce myself. I am Nikola Jovanovic, SPO MP from Triestenik and Rasin County MP. At this point, I am certain to have a porch, not a porch that I am speaking to you, but, at this point, probably, half of Serbia and expect this Parliament to vote something that suits our people. We have all received votes from the people and trust to bring to this people what will be better tomorrow through our work in the congregation. Unfortunately, I have one chill that today this assembly will not bring what this people in Serbia expect. A few moments ago, respected counterpart Dragisic responded to a comment by our member of the SPO, Professor Kovacevic, that the 1905 University Act is an old law. I think at this point, the old laws, the Archimedes' law, the Pythagorean theorem and Dushan's 1346 code, which says not to be tried by the emperor's invitation. With all due respect, I think Mr Dragisic and I and all of us here are no longer worth it just because we live in this time. Laws that are good should also be respected, even from old times. In order not to be wise here, the fact is that we need to talk about the law of the university. This law is a law that at this point is harder than anyone else wants an SRS. Why do they want this law? Not just the SRS, it's what the JUL and the SPS want. But why does he want it? During the negotiations on entry into the government of the Republic of Serbia, the SPO suggested that ministers, deputy ministers and ministerial assistants could not be people without university education. The SPO proposal was rejected. The moment we learned that the proposal had been rejected, it was clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia would enter the SRS. The Serbian Radical Party certainly does not have enough educated people to fill all the places. What are they looking for now? They demand that the Serbian government, in which people with possibly high school sit, determine Well, sir, I have Rako Radovic in the Assembly and I manage to fight him. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Therefore, if you want the University Act, at least act universityly. As soon as the law is passed, it is normal to ask, surely, since the Serbian Radical Party won a large number of votes, for one 40% of the dean to be from the Radical Party. I don't have an affinity to it, it'll be 40%. It's normal for the dean to set up professors, the professors must be members of the Radical Party. Those are conjectures, God forbid it is. The intention is that a certain number of people, who are not professors, graduates from colleges. It's known from the communist era. I heard Mr. Nikolic say he didn't finish college, but he'd definitely finish it. I don't know if by adopting this law, Mr. Nikolic could finish, or he would also become the rector of the Kragujeva University. Sure. Gentlemen, it wasn't that long ago when Mr Stipe Shuvar introduced a reform of education in the old Yugoslavia, the famous Shuvarica, of which there are consequences today. I'm afraid the adoptable Sheik doesn't bring much more evil to this country. It'll be harder for this country. I think if the law is passed, it will be the end of the university and the end of the mind and the end of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u619	National MP Stevo Dragisic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u620	Since the failure of the Serbian Renewal Movement negotiations to join the government, there has been no consensus in the party. The last speaker from the Serbian Renewal Movement said there were no Serbian Radical Party members. Now he's saying we're going to have 40% of the professors and dean. Make a deal once, whether there's a professor's radicals or no professor's radicals. But when we're in the middle of a dilemma about whether or not we should choose "Hellie" or Danica, it's better if we choose "Hellie," because Danica's already shown some bad effects.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u621	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zvonimir Budic, that the Messenger of the people should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u622	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen... Your primitiveism is famous. [[unheard]] I ask myself a question which is why the new government, as the first serious law in its term of office, is proposing a law on the university? Somehow quickly, without consulting with universities and universities in Serbia, which would certainly contribute to a better solution. The government itself has recognised this by a large number of its amendments, which have amended almost all the provisions of segments relating to students. It is true that study is expensive, and that the length of study is large. But what was done to motivate these young people to graduate in time. Graduation creates a difficult period of uncertainty and struggle to survive, mostly beyond its profession. Instead of looking for a solution here, the government is troubled by the autonomy of the university, which even under current law was not at an envious height. This law introduces a strict bureaucratic hierarchy. The government through ministers is setting up rectors, deans, administrative and supervisory committees. The Deans choose teachers and associates. Well, maybe in some democratic society it wouldn't be so bad. In our case, it is clear that this government will seek to place ideologically similar and political listeners on boards, in the offices of the rectors. Now, instead of the declared depolitization of the university, we get total politicization of the university. The issue of functioning of the system immediately arises when the government and ministers change next. If the rector and the dean, by art. 109nd and 122nd. The law, having the rights and responsibilities of company directors, they as government officials in the function of executioners of orders and obedients have great personal authority over faculty employees. The rector and dean of this law become life-longly interested in the preservation of the government, because it defends their functions and thus introduces total politicisation at the university. In such circumstances, teachers and associates can do their teaching and educational work peacefully. Instead of being a source of progressive ideas, the government is pushing him to the margins of social events, and with strict control of the potential danger on that side. This humiliating government attitude towards the university will not contribute to its recovery or to the country's recovery. The historic responsibility of the assembly's MPs is not to pass such a law and allow students and teachers to end this year in peace and enter a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u623	The People's Messenger, Dr. Gvosden Rosic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Svirčević Ratimir.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in recent days, there have been very many public reactions and objections to the law or at least to, to be quite precise, the initial draft of the law, which has come to the public. They can be divided into two basic groups, two categories. The first would be an attempt to increase the efficiency of study at universities in Serbia by economic methods. So, in some ways, students are disciplined. It is clear to all that these measures are not too popular, and this is especially true for the general public. Then, the last decisions we had to hear at the Education Committee session last night, when the government gave amendments that had been corrected, or improved from a student aspect of their status at the university, certainly that they could get our support. In addition, SPPO MP support was also given at the Education Committee meeting last night. The second group of objections refers to the desire for administrative measures to be disciplined and teachers at the university, to make it clear to them who is the founder, who are the rights of founders, and that no one should be affected. These changes are less interesting to the general public, and that is why they deserve our special attention, because we think they are very important in the long term. Given that the government has given up most of the proposal to tighten the study regime from the student aspect, it is definitely clear that the law's gravity and the fundamental intensity of the law was still on this second segment, to establish some other procedure, primarily election procedures at universities and universities. We, although there were objections here that there was no proposal, that there were no interventions, that there were no constructive proposals, tried to amend this bill. I must admit, as subjective as I am, and when I'm alone and when it comes to my party, it seems to me that the bill would be quite good if our amendments were adopted. Our proposals were not designed to further politicise the existing situation, and therefore they did not tap into the final decisions made by the government as founder at the university, but aimed at reducing the likelihood of the founder making the wrong decisions. So we don't need to be attributed to an attempt to take over the founder's authority, because it doesn't stand in our proposals. We have proposed to reduce the responsibility of the executive authority in the area of the choice of teachers and executive staff at universities and universities. It is quite concrete, although hopefully we will discuss the amendments in more detail later, we believe that it is not good that the college dean himself makes a decision on the admission of teachers and associates by having called a competition, he himself appoints a selection committee and makes his own appointment. Given the width and number of scientific disciplines in one university, it is really impossible for any individual to be competent enough and present in all these areas, so it is natural to have the help of competent associates who could make the best choice together. It is quite enough, in our opinion, that this assistance should also be in the form of a proposal, therefore, only proposing the best candidates. We believe that people who are the most competent to give their own judgment on the choice of teachers, just the people who spent the most years in that university, in teaching, in scientific work, people who know best the teaching and scientific qualities of their colleagues and whose direct interest is to choose the best in college. So, members of a major college. Also, members of a higher university, teachers of a university are most invited to propose to the founders candidates or candidates for the duties of the dean. In this way, nothing interferes with the founder's right to choose the Dean, but based on a proposal from his own colleagues. This way of elections cannot in any way weaken the position of the dean, but only to strengthen it, because from that moment on, the dean's function is not, above all, a reflection of the political forces, but also the officialship of the founders, therefore, by the government's representative, one authority, which is otherwise recognised by the most prominent experts in a particular area. At the head of the university, we think it should be a person who has the support of people who are successfully engaged in a number of scientific disciplines. That's why we think that the previous support of most universities, I mean the higher university of one university, with the government's consent as founder, can only benefit the university and the state and all those addressed to the university. Finally, it must be acknowledged that certain indicators of the current situation at the university, which we had the opportunity to hear from the government's representative, are very unfavorable and, of course, represent one signal, one warning that something needs to be fixed, something needs to be changed. I'm sure those indicators can't be an excuse enough to decide, compared to the existing one, a one-time, I'm afraid, short-term solution. The adoption of such a legislative proposal presents a challenge, a major challenge for those who come out of power positions, which is understandable, but also dangerous. At the same time, the adoption of such a law would also represent a dangerous precedent and a very powerful weapon for all current or future non-democratic political options. In this way, I fear that the functions of the executive authority in this country would gain greater importance, in the long term, than would be good for the country itself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u625	There's a word from MP Svirčević Ratimir.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u626	Dear MPs, it is said here, and it seems to me that Minister Ivkovic said that the biggest stumbling is about two things, which is methodology and autonomy. I think these are very important things, if he means the methodology of choosing institutions at the university. I'm going to try to expand the subject a little bit, to somehow show that there are other aspects from which this law can be assessed, but not to argue that these two are the most important things that have been said about. I'd like to introduce another basis for this bill's assessment, it's time to pass. Next, the way it is brought and the content. Content is certainly the most important, and it is not burning to say anything about the time of this law. In 1992, the University Law was passed. He was declared a few days later. The promoter was the same. For me, it's the same as the one that suggested. You remember that assembly. That's where the socialists had the absolute majority. I don't think there's any more important difference now. They then proposed the University Law in August, when the war raged in BiH, when sanctions were imposed. In 1992, I think I'm right. When the university didn't work, because I think all the universities in the world are on vacation in August. It was not clear to the public at the time, which is why he is in such a hurry and why the term has been used. But there is some connection to the student protests that were around Vidovdan. The time to pass this law is 1998. Let's see about the circumstances. Circumstances are war in Kosovo. Circumstances are very tight relations with Montenegro. Circumstances are -- there are sanctions -- no sanctions. No one here is safe. The outside wall, the inner wall, the new sanctions -- a little introduction, then suspend them, I don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. Which was why he needed to be in a hurry at this point with a law like this. It's said to be a law of exceptional importance. I'll remind you of the Information Act, which was also of great importance. The same law is said to be one of the best laws in the world. To use the best traditions in this area - worldly, the same is said of this law. I don't see anything in the procedure. I don't even see a promoter, Mrs. Radmila Milentievich, I don't know where she is. He simply, quietly, completely disappeared from the procedure. Now he insists on this law, as if he were absolutely the most important, as if now he's working under some 1982 law, not 1992, as if the proposer of this law was someone else, not the same. When it comes to the second criterion, the method of adoption, it is said here, again it seems to me that Minister Ivkovic - 15 days the MPs had time to study the law well and in detail for 15 days for such a law. It wasn't even 15. I think it's been 10 days maximum, depending on who lives where and at what time this bill was received. So again, one analogy with the Information Act, which is not proposed to be passed in 10 days or 15 months, but months. Remember the panel discussion. Remember some tradition that says, was then introduced -- that everyone who is competent, who wonders, who knows something in that area, who works in that area, will be consulted. Remember the round tables, so yeah, that's the panel -- a lot of minutes spent on television, so that the law is propagated by the system -- the project counters. The arguments were in a ton and at the end of the law nothing. To be honest, I'd like that to happen with this bill. I'd like to say a little bit about the content of the law. A lot's been said. Time's running out, and I think we're all tired, but I'll just say some basic clues. The 1992 university law at point 4) says the university space and its members is injureable under this law. In the 1998 law, there is no such thing as this. I respect Mr Nikolic's argument, who compared it to the inviolability of the apartment, mentioned some criminal who was chased by the police, so he hid in the university, all of it could be arguments, but I think it's a false argument and no one here talked about crimes, crimes and so forth. There is one world tradition, and that is the vast majority of you know, and especially the people of the university, that the inviolability of the space of the university is a real tradition and applied in the largest number of world laws on the university. Self-government is used as a simple light motive to justify such solutions in the law, so it is said that this solution has been driven from the university. I ask you gentlemen to banish self-government from the economy. The privatisation law on October 31st was passed. No company has yet to issue a free share for the first round, so that only after a year and that first round of some scale would Serbia have in financial terms since the sale of shares. There's a self-management problem. You know that 99% of the company and maybe 99.9% of the social sector remained in the social sector. On television, the vice presidents spoke of self-government as a key reason why a new university law is being passed. There are two university management institutions in Germany, and in both cases it is about being elected by members of the university community. One's a college, the other's a rector. Perhaps Italy is closer to you as an example. The law in Florence, which has 800 years of long tradition, think what it would look like to say that the Italian government is the founder of the University of Florence and is the owner of the University, and it's a state university. They have their statutes and there is a rector in that statute, there is an academia Senate, there is an administrative council. Only in this last one there is a representative of the government, and in these last two students are represented. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Mr. Ratko Markovic, one of the key people to promoting this legal solution, as far as I know, the Doctor of Constitutional Law, says in his opening statement, you won't believe, it doesn't matter how institutions are chosen, it's meant to be rectors, deans, etc., it's important quality. Imagine, professors, if I said it wasn't the Assembly, that it wasn't the election law, that it wasn't the multiparty system that mattered, that we weren't MPs, it was the quality democracy that mattered. How would that work? How do you perform quality in college if it's not an important way to select their key personnel? In addition to proposing that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, I would suggest one more thing, that there be a vote here, as we voted today at the beginning of the session, by raising our hands. I would like the public in Serbia to see particularly university professors vote, not to repeat the situation a few months ago when, concerning the Law on the participation of cities and municipalities in traffic tax, most of the MPs of the left coalition voted against their cities. I want to see if the teachers vote against their university.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u627	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Jovan Djordjevic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u628	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I am not an academic citizen and I will not speak for academic citizens, but allow me to speak for the assets of the Yugoslav Left Workers and take part in the proposed law and say what we think about it. In the past few days, great dust has been raised in public over the University Law proposal, but there have been some well-informed self-informed national tribunals and protectors of the powerless, oppressed, who want to expose this lasting activity, so Serbia will be saved thanks to them. It is as if they suffer from total amnesia, forgetting last year's parliamentary elections and forming the Government of People's Unity, and apparently all provisions of the positive and legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, powers, rights and obligations of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the area of legislative activity. We could hear and read a whole series of difficult qualifications and disqualifications addressed to the government, most of which were low-cultural levels of unworthy academic citizens, all of which as a result of the full and rational fear of the new university law. Insufficiently referred to the political abuse of the university, which was largely directed by a small part of the professor, could conclude that it rose, as our people would say, to the hips and disruptors in the defense of the university and its autonomy from the attacks of those who would charge the university into a party school. I don't think so. The fact is that the funds with which the university works are state property and that the work at the university is financed from public incomes, which the whole of society provides with great effort. Is it not a paradox that the apprehensive supporters of the market economy and private property are opposed to the basic powers arising from property rights? Why would it be perfectly acceptable for people from the state university to manage the private universe of those who finance it, while they find it unacceptable that the state manages the resources it invests in the work of the universe. A question arises which is political, democratic or some third principle on behalf of whom would Serbia deny its rights? Is it the only task of the state to finance the university, where employees will deal primarily with political rather than scientific work? The Republic of Serbia's proposed university law creates conditions to ensure maximum quality teaching and full autonomy in the fields of scientific, research work, which is the essence of university autonomy. To those who are irresponsiblely and thoughtlessly these days, for cheap political points and personal promotions, artificial products of the university crisis and trying to prevent and block their normal work, we recommend that they think carefully before they engage in an adventure that they can't get out of as winners. Those who are willing to sacrifice students, for their own sakes and not just their own interests, must be aware that they will bear full responsibility for every lost exam and for every outstanding year. Those who do not have the courage to check their political strength in the elections are ready to play with the fate of thousands of students and their families are aware of their political weaknesses and the fact that students are in the midst of their youth suitable for manipulation, which has proved several times over the past few years. They again want their political failures and ideas to come true across the street, not in parliament. Therefore, on behalf of the workers of the Yugoslav Left, members and works of progressive, party-defined members and individuals, we urge students not to be manipulated. There's no political goal worth losing at least one exam, let alone a year. We remind students that on many occasions they have suffered the consequences of their professors' irresponsible behavior, leaders and all so-called leaders. student protests, which benefited personally from the demonstrations and not only politically but also materially. We sincerely hope that the students of all these events learned lessons and that they will not make mistakes. The question is, why don't you ask those who are single for university funding, what do they think of the average? Please, you know where part of the funds goes and how to fill the budget. It's not full of meetings and conferences, it's direct from production. Do individual university professors and political champions of miniature parties think that we should finance eight years of study, which lasts for three years. Now we've heard here that some have studied 10 or 11 years or more. Please, who's the host who'd throw away money for something he doesn't need. Is this student better in business and this society tomorrow if instead of one year studying two? Maybe it's better for someone, but it's not good for us. Let the gentlemen forgive the university professors, the political champions who manipulate, and students who prefer whistles instead of teaching, but those who single out part of funding funds for the university support the government's proposal for a law on the university. This law creates conditions for the smooth work of the university, and that is why we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u629	Thank you. There is a word from the People's Messenger Bojana Ristic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u630	Dear President, respected MPs, the intention of the Serbian Renewal Movement is to convince the Serbian government of the necessity of withdrawing the University Law proposal from the assembly procedure. Why? Because the university bill abolishes university autonomy in Serbia. Because it turns universities into enterprises owned by the government, and in fact universities are funded by all Serbian citizens. Because we're going to have even less college-educated people, and now we're among the last countries in Europe by that indicator. Because the state did not provide adequate conditions for the work of professors and students so that it could set conditions. These reasons should be sufficient to withdraw the University Law proposal from the assembly procedure. I'll remind you, gentlemen of the Ministers, before you a similar bill on the university had Lenin and Hitler. So you're not original. I also remind you that in the Kingdom of Serbia, the university had autonomy. Not to mention, today in the world, no one thinks that the government appoints a rector, dean or an indirect professor of the university. What no one can think of, and this proposal for a law on the university is that the government appoints all members of the board of directors of the university. It is certainly not right to choose a teaching scientificly larger number based on the statutes set by the Governing Board appointed by the Government. It would be normal for employees and students to choose their own representatives. All of these are facts that talk about abolishing the university's autonomy in Serbia. Serbia's government has no right to turn the university into a profit-making company. The government does not finance the university from its pocket, but from Serbia's budget, which is being filled by rejecting taxes and contributions from all our citizens. The university is funded by the people, not by the government. The JUL and the Serbian Radical Party, which propose the law.... And the SPS, they could form... If you were patient, you'd hear the rest of the sentence. Gentlemen, please, it is not appropriate for the ministers and vice-presidents of the government to behave like this. So, the JUL and the Radicals and the SPS, which propose this law, could form their own private party universities and try out models from the Chinese Cultural Revolution or the Police Academy. The university, especially national universities such as those in Serbia, should produce knowledge and culture and have national significance. Only freedom and competition at universities lead to scientific technological development, not obedience and party ties. Only if we retain the best personnel will we allow our society to develop. Our goal should be to have even more students and university professors, or college-educated people. It is not an exact claim that has been heard from our minister today, that we have too many students and that we are by the number of students among the first in Europe, or perhaps even in the world, I am not sure. Which is absolutely not true. We are according to the number of students among the last in Europe. On 10,000 residents, we have 120 students, and in Europe, the average is about 500. To change that, we need to create conditions for these students to work at universities. If you really cared about students, gentlemen from the Serbian government, you would allow what students at universities in America, France, Great Britain and other Western European countries already have. And they have university autonomy, scholarships, loans, colleges equipped with the best equipment. Only when the Serbian government allows the best students free of charge of accommodation, transportation, nutrition can books set conditions. You are talking about free education here, and all Serbian citizens know perfectly that there is no such thing in Serbia. On the contrary, the cost of studying is unbearablely high. For example, how can a student from Leskovec, where the average salary is 500 dinars, pay a book of 100 to 250 dinars, for one exam of 150 dinars, 10 dinars, application of 40 to 120 dinars per exam. How can a student whose father or mother has an average salary of 500 dinars, and many receive 50 or 100 dinars. I suggest to the government that he no longer defends colleges from professors and students. It would be better for the government to do its job, to enable new jobs, to make more salaries and pensions, better health care, means medicines in pharmacies and other things, to allow social security to the poorest. This means that the government allows for a regular payment of both larger mother and social allowances. The government should provide good and cheaper education, unsuspecting judiciary, police, etc. These are the obligations of the Serbian government. Ministers, you are not selected to arrest and beat students and professors who have demonstrated peacefully in front of the National Assembly today because they do not agree with the University Law proposal. All of us, here in the congregation hall, were chosen by the people. We are the People's Messengers. We were also elected by those who demonstrated before the Assembly, and you have no right to beat students and teachers. They have the right to disagree with your bill and to demonstrate in front of their National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u631	Mrs. Ristic, were you in front of the Assembly? Please respond. When speaking from a congregation pay phone, you have to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u632	Mr. President, when you become an investigator, I will answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u633	No, no, now answer. Why are you saying something and you weren't outside?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u634	Please, Mr. Minister, let the problems of the university solve those who know better, those who work at universities. If that is not the case, the adoption of this bill will be another revenge for the bad students. Unfortunately, the consequences will soon be felt in justice, industry, economy and all other areas. By suffocating freedom at the university, Mr. Minister, you're actually suffocating Serbia. You're choking your own people. I would suggest that you spend your time on what you are chosen to make it possible for the citizens of Serbia to live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u635	You haven't answered the question how do you know about what you've been saying here, please? How can you bring something out and not know if it happened?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u636	Mr. President, it was recorded by the cameras.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u637	Tell it to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u638	I don't need to prove it, and you're not an investigator and stop treating MPs from the opposition like that.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u639	Please, MPs must tell the truth and not deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u640	Prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u641	You prove it. I don't need to because I don't know that, ma'am, and you know it. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Aleksandar Jotric, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zeljko Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u642	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the SPO parliamentary group, I point out that we strongly condemn police intervention against students and professors who today before the Serbian Parliament, in front of this house, sought the autonomy of the university. The SPO demands that all arrested be released immediately and that officials be used by police forces, fines. University autonomy also implies absolute freedom in showing political attitude, especially when it comes to issues related to the fate of the university. In democratic states of Europe and the United States, citizens are also entitled to follow the work of these parliaments, namely the American Congress, directly at the galleries of their parliaments. In our country, however, police are being used to prevent a democratic protest by professors and students, who have gathered to express their disagreement with the fact that the Serbian Parliament is today most likely to declare the University Law, while completely ignoring the mood and will of the university. Where a police pendrek works, there is no democracy, freedom, science and art, there is no autonomy of the university or the university itself. The arguments that only a group of several hundred students were gathered before the Assembly are not arguments for the use of police force, because the smaller the group, the less the risk of the group's operation. Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj publicly threatened that all students who object to the University Law bill would lose student status and that teachers would lose their jobs... (tossing out of the O.R.) Since 90% of our professors and students on the verge of hunger, this fear of living existence has prevented tens of thousands of them from expressing their indignation over the conversion of universities, not only to agricultural cooperatives, but also to institutions where even the police can work. The question arises where autonomy is here, does Mr. Seselj and JUL think, that this is the way to Europe, and therefore, on behalf of the SPO parliamentary group, I propose that the National Assembly reject the proposed law on the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u643	Thank you, there is a word from MP Zeljko Simic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u644	Dear Mr. President, dear and esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the remarks put on the draft law on the university, very carefully recording those terms that were most in circulation and came to the conclusion that there were many of those remarks that Shopenhower said in his book - "The Dialectics of Eristics". To be clear, what I mean is, therefore, heretics has been translated into our language into the science of contention. The subtitle of that famous Shopenhower book is -- how do you always be right? Of course, it's a skill that he brought to perfection and recorded them in so-called. 38 cases. The most used are the following words - traditions, property, democracy and the free spirit, according to my insight, and I listened very carefully and carefully, as I said at the outset. I think that according to all these terms, we have to be very serious about ourselves, because there is a great danger of that abuse that's very striking about the book that we're talking about -- so, Shopenhower -- the book about the argument -- mostly because the words I'm talking about right now are very tempting, but they're very relevant to every kind of manipulation and abuse. So this is about the fact that the opponents of this draft very strongly extremized themselves to what is to the extent of the problem itself, which is that they are abolished, in my deep conviction, all the remains of the self-control spirit, right through the property institution, which was here on the wallpaper as one of those terms and those concepts that should be bypassed in the discussion, primarily because of tradition. So one of the opponents said that it would be worth avoiding any calling for property, because it existed as well as the university before this state, this order, which in some ways transforms the concept of property itself, so we don't know what it means. Professor Gams, at the time when he referred fierce criticism to the account of the self-rule spirit that floated beside our country at that time, said that the main problem is that there is no title of property, and since Roman law, differentiation of specificity, for the purposes of the titlemaker, and when I say so, then we cannot ignore the fact of who is the titlemaker, so who owns over that institution that we're talking about today. The word is too strong for Professor Gams to say at the time that the absence of the knights leads to the absence of these fundamental principles that determine Western democracy. It's a work ethus, an etus of discipline and ethus of responsibility, because then our strongest firms were in a situation to socialise the losses of those who didn't want to participate and participate in the market, because de facto, there was no free market. So, it's that we can't overstep the government's right, not to call on property, but to use property as a metric for the debate itself, because that's what all the countries of the most developed democracies, which are not even mentioned in the debates. They were somewhere in the video circle as if they weren't a role model until yesterday when it came to criticism of other species entirely. So it's a logical mistake that every eye can easily see, and it's called pars pro toto. It's part of the whole, and it's also from the dominant parts of the Shopenhower book, where it's said -- if you don't have enough arguments, you expand the debate. We've been listening here today, I've listed exactly 15 speakers focused their exposure on the problem of being able to pass the law in general, which is very skillful. And the basic principle of this heresy, therefore, can convince you of something that is inconceivable, is to do the thing and to talk about something that is not. Are we really discussing the law in full today? We're discussing today the draft law on the university and a problem that could possibly come out of it. So then calling to tradition was very symptomatic, so much of what I consider to be the preservation of permanent, not the preservation of past values. And I think most of those who also refer to tradition have that in mind, they just don't want to define tradition, because we can't compare time. If we're going to compare anything, then it's the soul of the democratic world, which has been implementing similar mechanisms for many years, and I don't know why we'd be closing our eyes in front of that fact right now, if in some other fields we're referring to it as an example and as some kind of paradigm. What is most important to me here is that in most of these discussions there was one path that had to be close to me because we were talking to Serbian public opinion. But there's a dangerous substitute for thesis. Some here are directly talking about democracy being a free country. Then I don't think we understand each other deeply. I'm telling you, I'm serious. Democracy is not a free country. It is a very tightly constrained freedom and anyone who talks about preventing the free spirit is actually talking about not understanding the spirit of democracy, or that this term abuses itself for the purposes of scrupulous and particular purposes. So, I think it's a very serious thing here that, first of all, the debate has been so ongoing, we've questioned people, we've questioned individuals, who are incontrovertible at this point, because they're a direct expression of the will of the people who voted them. In addition, we have confirmed this government here and given the imprimature, we members of the Assembly, and we cannot individually bring them into question, in any segment. The debate on whether or not someone has the proper school equipment is again beyond the scale of this problem. I'm going to the metrics, as my predecessor used to say, and that's autonomy, which, in my opinion, has nothing to question. Autonomy has been brought in if it is seen as a possibility of misusing individual institutions, of which a fetish is made for some individual, narrow-sided, party or any non-universal principles. So that's what's fundamental to me at this point is not at all problematic, which you can feel my voice is shaking. First of all, because it's a serious thing and I have the right to suffer, as my predecessors do, because I'm talking to the people who chose me. Besides, I don't see any deep reason, except for one that's in the realm of heresy, a way to convince yourself of something you can't convince yourself of. In 25 of these drafts, there is a word that they appeal to public opinion to convince the government. Look, whoever has democratic arguments doesn't want to convince anyone. You're the one who's been trying to convince "butin" by allegation, of course. This is no sharp word sent to your account. It's very symptomatic that you have no desire to convince those of us who think differently than to convince us. Because if you want to convince us, if you have convictions, you can talk me out of it. If you have convictions, there is no Serbian verb to reason. So you're looking for an argument that's not essentially at the core of the debate, but beyond it, which is, I say, one skill. But someone here is obliged to say that this skill serves one manipulation, which also has its political goals and political purpose. If many allowed themselves a personal tone, I was also someone who was a child of Belgrade University, but I showed my free spirit on the "Students" pages as the youngest editor of "Students", on the "Vidika" pages, "The Views" and other magazines. But my foundation of my free spirit was the University, which provided me with specialist knowledge, that I could, in an appropriate way, first of all, articulate and mold my free spirit. The free spirit does not mean the absence of any responsibility, especially in this historic moment. I think that's why I'm talking about these shortcomings. In my deep belief, if the government has good reason to appeal to property, I repeat, and that is the paraphras of the words of the famous Professor Gams, it is thus strengthening the global agenda: etus work, etus responsibility and etus discipline. All these three principles we haven't had so far because the university was, in a certain way, full of these relics of self-rule or self-rule spirit, whatever you want. There is therefore something that is in the spirit of precisely global trends related to transition, financial - monetary relations. So, I'm talking about strengthening responsibility, discipline for what is done, and, on the other hand, motivation is being made for those who want to break their specialist spirit, to make their full contribution to the development of society and the development of democracy, which, I repeat, we need to understand and understand as a strictly restricted space in which there are appropriate rules, not as any limited freedom that we need from this law, in any way, to strengthen. (President: Time. Many have said that they have good intentions, putting their remarks on this bill. I in it, when I talk about the metrics, I see only the good things and from the point of view, ready, understood, and open to every criticism, but I am closed to any kind of threat that can be shaped on this side, by adding that there is a famous saying that "and the road to hell is very often paved by good intentions" and that we are not in a position to criticise the government in a way that states that we are in accordance with universal principles of continual and political principles. Thank you, and I apologize for overstepping Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u645	The People's Messenger Zoran Milosevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Predrag Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on university law. Heto would like my exposure, first of all, to focus on the individual segments of this law. This bill provides for a complete editing of the university system. In fact, this bill is very precise and clearly the entire university system, from the aspect of property relations, observes from two parts. The first part is steering, while the second part is educational. In the first steering section, it is envisaged to edit a rather chaotic state. The rectors and deans will represent the management bodies of the university appointed by the government. This right is owned by the government in the very fact that it, as an executive body, has the right to decide who and how to dispose of state money at the university. The rectors and deans have the right and duties of the director of enterprises and the very fact that this bill represents a single market moment, namely, which eventually liberalises the establishment of private universities, so that anyone who heads state universities will have to think marketly, because sooner or later they will face competition. On the other hand, we have an educational part that requires complete autonomy in this bill, which refers to the independence of the adoption of curricula and the implementation of the university's teaching and scientific research process. In the turquoise organs, such as the teachingly larger, rectors and deans have no right to vote. By editing these two parts, this bill envisions an increase in the efficiency and effectiveness of the full performance that takes place at the university. On the one hand, the administration of governance is reduced, while on the other hand one positive selection among students is performed, by aphirming the most valuable, most capable students. Otherwise, I would still like to point out two members of the law, which I think are very important, especially for us students. So that's Article 46. The law, which provides for free regulation by the university of test deadlines and Article 165. The law, which says, to enroll in the next 1998/99. a year in terms of terms and method of payment does not apply to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u647	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u648	Serbia today has very big decisions and the need to make the only right solution on burning issues. Today's question is that something is wrong with this bill. That's what you hear on the street, at the university, even in the Assembly. If the proposal had been good, you wouldn't have picked up as much dust as anyone would have said. It's not dust, gentlemen, it's a matter of concern for a solution that may have been brought too quickly and at the wrong time. I have a proposal to pull this off. Another proposal - if anyone cares about the political impact on students and professors, let them open private universities and universities and, at their own political will, set up rectors and give dynamics to students how to quickly finish colleges. The number of entries will be the answer whether the political party has successfully organised all this. I suggest we leave this traditional university to live by some different principles.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u649	Professor Ninoslav Stojadinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u650	It's not a replica, don't worry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, instead of using the vast potentials of the university and including itself in solving key and strategic problems of interest for Serbia's development and Serbia's inclusion in the world, I will remind you of Mr Milutinovic's electoral slogan "and Serbia and the world", the university was completely excluded from forming a law on the university, therefore, a law that directly regulates the matter of its functioning. What happened? Some secret expert groups have formed the law and the result is the following Well, we haven't published, Mr. Bucky. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Please don't do that, leave it for your shop. The result is next. Instead of a law based on positive experiences and traditions of Serbian universities and modern trends in the development of universities in the world, we have received a law that absolutely chokes university autonomy and brings the university down to a public enterprise. I am sorry that this is not the Minister of Science and Technology, Mr. Ivkovic, who has discussed this law well, autonomy, everything, but has forgotten that the institutes that are in the power of the Ministry of Science and Technology are organised similar to public enterprises and that there is a significantly higher degree of autonomy there. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in the Ministry of Science and Technology, commissions are formed at the level of the Ministry of Different Areas and Discipline of Science, that elections are done in such a way, unique to all Serbia (only you win, just you earn) and that this Law on Science and Technology has specified the conditions of choice, numerically. So you know what are the conditions for individual scientific titles, the number of papers, magazines, etc. If institutes, similar to public enterprises under the current law, can have that degree of autonomy, then I guess the university deserves it. I'm surprised Mr. Ivkovic didn't notice that there are no scientific institutes in this law. This law They'll let you go very soon, they'll let you go very soon. [[tossing out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u651	He wasn't talking to you, he was talking about ventilation.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u652	Should I appeal to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u653	You don't have to call.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u654	This law, for God's sake, is to exclude institutions such as libraries and so forth, those former Marxist centres, from the university's composition, also shut down scientific institutes. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the scientific institutes in Serbia are both a base of staff, given the number of researchers and experimental ones, for conducting basic studies, especially postgraduate master's and PhDs. In this way the institutes are particularly excluded and it is very bad for a small country like this, which has a lot of syringes in both science and education. It's a disaster, because that triangle -- university education, science, economics, now it doesn't exist. Here are the basic premises of law, the depolitisation of university and an increase in study efficiency. Instead of depoliticalizing, we have been expelled from self-management, according to the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic, Mr. Markovic, we have received something else. We didn't banish self-government, because there was no self-management at university. The elections were decided by scientific and professional bodies, the teaching and scientific council, which consist of doctors of science and one representative of the cathedral, who can be a master. So it's not self-government. So, this is how we, by having the deans have complete powers, have conducted total politicization of the university. Instead of quality people, people like you will be chosen. Think about it. Our diplomas have been recognized worldwide, and as someone said, I don't like to use that word, the product, but as a university professor, I know that our staffs are recognized and recognizable around the world. Our students with an average score of seven and a half, and the average average score of seven and a half is in the government's arguments for strengthening study criteria, are extremely well accepted worldwide and are employed at all universities around the world. So here we go for total politicization. Instead of high-quality teachers, we'll choose similar professors. We had this category of moral-political similarities at the time of the rule of communism, but even then they were able to listen and choose the highest quality. That's when the dean and the prodigal were going to be people who weren't organized. As far as study efficiency is concerned, the basic premise was to tighten the conditions. Standards and quality of teaching and enrollment policies have been forgotten. Mr. Nikolic mentioned some percentages. He says 90% of high school graduates go to college. Is that what a major college and college dean does? Registration policy is run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I've been a dean for five years. They're always after the so-called. the entrance exam, in fact it was a classification exam, coming letters from the Ministry and the government to increase the number of students. It's the politics of all the Socialist governments and now this coalition government. Therefore, unless the entry policy changes, there is nothing to increase and improve study efficiency. Secondly, a very important factor in the efficiency of study is the standard of teaching and quality of teaching. One of the memories of that is the lab's equipment, and you know who's affecting it. There is the government and the Ministry of Education, which needs to provide funding, and it is known that several years of colleges in Serbia do not receive funding for material costs. I repeat, colleges don't get that kind of funding, but they finance material costs and lab exercises for profit. The next component is the quality of teaching. This way, as you suggest, the quality of the professor will not improve. So the only thing you've proposed is to tighten the study regime, where you've reduced both the number of deadlines and the number of cases students can transfer in the following year. However, Mr. Todorovic, we were on the Committee twice. You know what I suggested, you know what you suggested, you know what you said. But suddenly, overnight, a courting policy of the coalition government, so-called. The governments of national unity, instead of tightening the conditions for which we were, but we felt it was not the time for that, suddenly the conditions of study have been tempered. Instead of four deadlines, according to the applicable law, five deadlines appear. This is about some who don't know these numbers correctly. Instead of one behind exam - two - three etc. The number's increasing by one. And, there's been some concession, related to the new funding category, that one year when it can repeat itself can come back with some average, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, prime ministers, the basic motives for this new law cannot be challenged. I have to say something in the end, everyone mentions -- where you've been, you've had a chance to fix the law with amendments. If something is based on the foundations that are bad, it can't make up, paint can't be fixed. The foundations of this law are extremely bad, they distance us from the world and represent a disaster for a young generation in this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u655	Thank you. Since no one's answered their word again, I'm concluding a search in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the draft law on the university in principle. 132 MPs voted against 37, with no abstentions, no three, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Article 5 The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Article 10. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Education Committee, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 10(3) of the amendment, the People's MP, Joseph Kasa, submitted. The government did not accept this amendment because the proposed solution was contained in the government's amendment to this article. The Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does MP Joseph Kasa stay with his amendment or accept a solution contained in the government's amendment? He's not here. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The amendment was voted by 35 MPs, against 135, two were abstentions, 12 were not voted, 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 10. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Mile Jovicic. The government did not accept this amendment because the proposed solution was contained in the government's amendment to this article. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it can be accepted. Does MP Mile Jovicic stay with his amendment or accept a solution contained in the government's amendment? He accepts the solution. I thank you. After accepting the solution, this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill and is not voted on. Article 11. The amendments were submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic to Articles 11th and 3rd. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 34, against 146, three were abstentions, six did not vote, 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 12. The 12th amendment was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 146, two abstentions, three did not vote, 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 22 On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, against 143, three abstentions, five did not vote, 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 24. The Legislative Committee submitted amendments to Article 24 of the 1st century, 3rd and 4th of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Article 24. On Article 24th, the 7th amendment was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic and, meanwhile, gave up the amendment. Article 26. On Article 26, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by the National MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 40, against 147, two abstentions, two did not vote, 191 MP was present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 32 after Article 31. National MPs Spasoje Krunic and Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 32 be added after article 31. The Government and the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 144, three abstentions, three did not vote, 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to Article 34, paragraph 2. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 42, against 143, two abstentions, six did not vote, 193 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 35(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 35, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Kass. The government did not accept this amendment because the proposed solution was contained in the government's amendment to this article. The Education Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Samatra Legislative Committee could accept the amendment. Does MP Joseph Kasa stay with his amendment or accept a solution contained in the government's amendment? Since he is not here, I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 144, three abstentions, four did not vote, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 37(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the The amendment was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic, but the amendment was withdrawn. On Article 39, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The Government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u656	I have to give an explanation for this proposal. It stands here, when learning in the language of a national minority or in a foreign language, to check the language of a national minority. In the amendment, I suggested that this applies only to foreign languages, i.e. mostly to foreigners. I believe this provision of the law is contrary to the Constitution. Namely, in Article 32. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states "schooling is accessible to everyone under equal conditions, members of other peoples and peoples have the right to education in their own language in accordance with the law". In fact, there was such a proposal that it was mixed and placed under the same hat learning in a foreign language and in the language of a national minority of local citizens. The law cannot distinguish education between Serbs, Hungarians and other national minorities. Therefore, they must be educated under the same conditions. For these reasons, I ask you nicely to respect and adopt this amendment. So it is normal for foreigners, or for those students who learn in English or Chinese, to check knowledge, but for me who finished high school in Hungarian, do not have to take the Hungarian exam.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u657	Thank you. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u658	I don't think this is about any discrimination of members of the national minority. Namely, Serbian children who finish high school in Serbian also take the Serbian language exam and the Serbian language university entrance exam. So, under the same conditions, we want to enroll children who belong to national minorities and children who belong to the Serb people. There's no discrimination. It is not possible to accept the requirement that during the course of the study you can move from minority language to another language because it would be used here, so someone would study for four years in one language, and then leave two or three exams to graduate, go to language, to another or to the language of the people, and thus disabling both curricula and programmes, teacher schedules and everything the state regulates by college. But I don't think Mr. Ispanovic is right when he claims that by introducing the language as conditions for enrolment in the university, there is any discrimination against the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u659	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 37, against 152, three abstentions, one did not vote, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Išpanovich Istvan. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u660	Mr Nikolic has already tried to explain this next position. Otherwise, if you have this explanation in front of you why my amendment is denied, I can tell you that it is offensive to me. In fact, it is assumed that one who learns in the language of the national minority will move to lay, as Mr Nikolic says, in order to pass better and pass exams in Serbian rather than in the language of the national minority. I can assure you that those of us who graduated from college in non-material language are far from in a difficult situation. I don't know how many of you have studied in an immaterial language. He knows the pains of someone who studies in another language. I suggested, given that the curricula and the programme is the same, regardless of whether someone learns in one, second or third language, that he may, in the event of certain reasons, cross over and end up if he started studying in one language, end up in another, because the plan and the programme is exactly the same. I suggested that it be deleted and now I suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u661	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 45, against 146, no one abstained, no one voted four, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th position of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MPs Spasoje Krunic and Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted, with the addition of Article 105 in the event of the adoption of this amendment. The bill in terms of determining the competence of a higher college to propose the number of students who can enroll in the first year of their studies. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 47, against 148 abstentions, there were no three, a total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 40th amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to Article 41, paragraph 5. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 46, against 147 abstentions, there were no three, a total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 41, paragraph 5 of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to Article 45, paragraph 2. They pulled this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 46, paragraph 1 is essentially the same amendment, submitted by MP Joseph Kasa. The government did not accept this amendment because the proposed solutions were contained in the government's amendment to this article. The Committee for Education has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Whether MP Joseph Kasa remains with his amendment or accepts a solution contained in the government's amendment. Since MP Joseph Kasa is not here, we must vote on the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 150, with three abstentions, not one, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 50(1) and (2) of the Treaty on the The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to the 50th amendment. They withdrew this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 51 of the Third Amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 52 of Article 1 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 59, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Spasoje Krunic and Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 43, against 148, with three abstentions, did not vote two, a total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 61 of Article 5 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted the 5th Amendment to Article 69. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 76 of the Fourth Amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. On Article 78, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by the National MP Dr Stevan Vrbaki. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 42, against 149, the abstention one, was not voted by three, a total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 84 of the amendment, the National MP Dr. Stevan Vrbaski submitted. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 40, against 152 abstentions, there were three, a total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 88, paragraph 2, the People's MPs Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Gvozden Rosic submitted. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? He has the word National MP Dr. Iron Rosic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u662	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna take up much of your time. It's about the part of the law that treats the choice of teachers and co-workers in college. The law provides for the dean of the university to decide on the publication of the contest, and our amendment is quite simple. The university dean decides on the publication of competitions on the proposal of a higher university and the dean is left with the right to make a final decision for reasons of administrative or supervisory reasons where administrative and supervisory law of the state is not being challenged. At the same time, the expert advice to the dean, especially when it is taken into account that in all colleges, classes from a huge number of disciplines, for which only one person cannot be professional, is absolutely necessary. The government's opinion, when it comes to expert assistance, advisory, proposing, the Dean's opinion on our amendment is that the government does not accept, because the proposed solution is contrary to the powers of the dean given in Preddog Law. I quote "basicly, this solution would limit the powers of the dean in terms of decision-making after the announcement of competition and the election of candidates" that is one vision, one view of the government that has its own particular arguments. What has caused some confusion among us, the fact that the Government itself has given Amendment 11 to this same bill, where it says, "We are adding words to the proposal of the cathedral, because the government believes that one of the professional authorities as the cathedral is involved in the process of getting the title." So, we had a previous view of the government that by adding an expert body that would propose, it would limit the power of the dean, and then the government gives its own amendment restricting the power of the dean, by transferring that restriction to the authority of the cathedral. We believe, and I'm sure that most of the people working at the university will agree, that it is still a larger university, given the number of people and the number of teachers, the most professional, most qualified, most competent organ that, I think, can make far more quality decisions than the cathedral can. Of course, in the spirit of professional help without entering the founder's authority are our next amendments, so as not to take up much of your time, I would ask you to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-26-0.u663	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 45, against 147, abstained one, did not vote five, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic, who gave up the amendment, submitted to Article 88(2) of the amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 88 of the second amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 89 of the same amendment, MPs Nebojsa Leković and Tihomir Arsic and MPs Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Gvosden Rosic submitted. The Government and the Committee on Education have not adopted these amendments, the Legislative Committee considers that amendments can be accepted, with the addition of Article 105 in the event of the adoption of these amendments. The draft law in order to determine the competence of the Council to educate the Commission referred to in Article 89. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. In favour of 46, against 148 abstentions, there were no four votes, a total of 198 MPs present I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 91st, the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Gvozden Rosic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, against 148, there are no abstentions, no five votes, a total of 196 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 98(2) of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to Article 99, paragraph 3. This amendment has been withdrawn. On Article 102, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. On Article 104, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. On Article 105, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 105 paragraph 1 of the second amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 105, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Gvozden Rosic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 42, against 154 abstentions, did not vote two, a total of 198 lawmakers were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted the 2nd amendment to Article 109. The government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee, did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 40, against 148, with one abstention, not two votes, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 110, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs of the People, Prof. Dr. Milan Christmas, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Iron Rosic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 151 abstentions, one was not voted, 193 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Arsic to Article 110. He pulled the amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to Article 110, paragraph 2. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment may be accepted, provided that their amendment to Article 11 is accepted. The bill, which is proposed to replace the term "Government Committee" with the term "Council". Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 153, one abstention, one did not vote, 194 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted to Articles 116, 1st and 2nd of the amendment. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 34, against 157 abstentions, not two voted, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 116(2) of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. On Article 117, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Tihomir Arsic. He pulled the amendment. On Article 117, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. They pulled this amendment. On Article 122, paragraph 2 was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. They pulled this amendment. On Article 123, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Spasoje Krunic and Dr. Gvozden Rosic. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, against 150, the abstentioned were not voted by three, a total of 196 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 123, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Arsic. He pulled the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic to Article 123. They pulled the amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted the 1st amendment to Article 129. They pulled this amendment. On Article 129, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. On Article 130, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Arsic. He pulled the amendment. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted their first amendment to Article 130. They pulled this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 134 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 137, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Kasa. The Government and the Committee on Education did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment can be accepted, with the acceptance of this amendment conditioned by the acceptance of the amendment to a member of the 35th Parliament. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 147 abstentions, five did not vote, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 152 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. In accordance with Article 155(1) and (2) of the Treaty on the The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. In accordance with Article 156, paragraph 1 and 2. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 161 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by an MP, Dr Stevan Vrbaki, to Article 163 of the amendment. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 34, against 146 abstentions, one did not vote 11, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 163 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Education, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Proposal to add a new Article 165 after Article 164. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 165 be added after Article 164. Since the amendment of the Government has been accepted by the Education Committee, I find that this amendment has become part of the bill. Article 167. National MPs Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic submitted the amendment to Article 167. The Government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 40, against 146 abstentions one, not seven, 194 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill of law on the university, in general. For 153, against 46, the abstentionary, did not vote one, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on university. Please, before we finish tonight's session, I would like to suggest that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the seats vacant, and that: one MP from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic and six MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's electoral lists, in order to enable their participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in election units 8 - Sombor, 9 - Novi Sad, 19 - Užice, 21 - Kraljevo, 25 - Leskovac and 26 - Vranje, to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MPs were met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 30(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to MPs from the electoral lists: (a) The Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic - Oliver Varagic, of election unit 19 - Uzica. b) Serbian Radical Party: Milan Cuk, of Election Unit 8 - Sombor, Miladin Zarkova, of Election Unit 9 - Novi Sad, Stanoj Cumic, of Election Unit 19 - Užica, Miodrag Krasojević, of Election Unit 21 - Kraljevo, Dragoljub Janacković, of Election Unit 25 - Leskovac and Vlasmir Trajkovic, of Election Unit 26 - Vranje. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Oliver Varagic, Milan Čuk, Miladin Zarkov, Stanoj Cumic, Miodrag Krasojevic, Dragoljub Janackovic and VlasimirTrajkovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. Thank you for your patience. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00. Dear People's MPs, I am opening the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 130 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Professor Milovan Bojic, Radet Svilar, Ljubomir Pesal and Velimir Bati Zivojinovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on the Income of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from the People's MPs Ratomer Muntlak and Zarko Jokanovic, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on these amendments. You have been given notices from MPs Ratomer Muntlak and Zarko Jokanovic to withdraw their amendments, submitted at the proposal of this law. You received a report from the Finance Committee, which had no objection to the bill and proposed that it be adopted by the National Assembly. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Borislav Milacic, the finance minister.
