ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u665	Dear President, honourable Members of the House, you have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Income Tax. The proposed changes are in line with the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia to continue and step up the start of reform processes in the economy and society. The finance ministry conducted a comprehensive analysis of the Republic's tax system in line with the Assembly's conclusion, which was made on a proposal from the government in 1997. Based on an analysis of expert teams formed by the ministry for each tax form, appropriate changes of the tax system have been proposed. The basic meaning of the proposed changes is to reduce the tax burden of the economy, i.e. creating conditions for more dynamic economic activity. In addition, each tax form provides certain adjustments, in order to respect the basic principle that taxes are paid in proportion to the economic strength of the taxpayers, especially in order to reduce tax avoidance. At this point, the Government has proposed amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens, as this tax requires the biggest and urgent changes. In line with the findings of the expert teams, several laws will be proposed and amended, which regulate individual tax instruments. By the next session of the Assembly, a proposal to codify, or unify, tax legislation in the Republic will be issued. This will give you a unique law, which regulates the so-called so-called law. direct taxes - income tax, income tax and property tax. In addition, representatives of our Republic actively participate in the establishment of legislation at the federal level. The biggest change relates to the introduction of a value added tax. Thus, the taxation of goods and services in transport is brought into line with solutions already in place in most European countries. This newspaper has long been announced, and it is necessary to work more intensively on its application. Meanwhile, efforts have been made to pass the Transport Tax Act, which would establish a single basis and an inter-mentary for taxing traffic in the country, in order to ensure a uniform and uniform conditions of business on the single market. Despite our efforts, attitudes have not been harmonised and there has been no proposal for a single law at the level of the federal state. Any further hesitation in this sphere is not acceptable. That is why it is necessary for the federal government to come forward as soon as possible with a proposal to harmonise the tax system on a federal level. When we talk about incentives to speed up the reform processes of our republic, it should be recalled that a realistic reduction in public spending is planned this year, i.e. a reduction in the participation of public consumption in the social product. The government will insist on that definition. It is also a firm determination by the government that the existing nominal budget framework of 16 billion dinars is not changing. This means that there will be a further real budget reduction. Dear People's MPs, allow me to comment on the proposed changes to the Law on Income Tax. These changes are primarily needed because tax burdens are high, so labour costs are relatively high. Together with contributions, net earnings are paid on average today at 1.24 dinars of taxes and contributions. In that tax, it makes a big part, because personal income tax is paid at a progressive rate of 15-30%. If the proposal is adopted that the existing progressive personal income tax is replaced by a single proportional rate of 14%, the net profit ratio and the total income tax will be reduced on average from 1:1.24 to 1:0.98 so far. By reducing labour costs, which will be achieved this way, the economy will remain about a billion and a half dinars between July 1st and the end of 1998. It's a major reduction in the overall burden. These are significant assets, especially under conditions of general interest in trade capital. At the same time, employment will be achieved, as the workforce is cheaping, and tax and contribution payments will be reduced by harmonising actual earnings through their payments in other forms. A new way of taxing will certainly affect the reduction of tax evasion. On the other hand, it will also affect the greater motivation of employers, as well as employees, as paying the above-average result will not automatically produce progressive taxation on the basis of higher earnings payments. Due to the collection technique for social security contributions, i.e. their commitment to gross earnings, the proposed tax reduction would result in a reduction in the inflow of funds with the Pension-Inhabitation and Health Fund. To avoid this, it is proposed to amend the law and increase the health insurance contribution rate by 0.5 percentage points. Also, the Decision of the Republic Fund of pension-inhabited insurance under its jurisdiction will increase the contribution rate for pension-inhabitation insurance by 1.3 percentage points. The provision of insurance, i.e. employees on the basis of these contributions after the proposed rate adjustments on average, will remain the same. However, due to the elimination of the progression, the separation on the basis of contributions at a lower level of earnings will increase and this may exceed the reduction of tax-based isolation. In order to avoid this, an increase in pension insurance contributions will be carried out on a selective basis so that lower earnings are relatively less burdened. This will ensure that no taxpayer has any additional burden based on these changes. It's important here to say, because there have been a lot of objections in public that the lowest earnings are being operated on. It did not take into account the overall package, because it did not contain a concrete decision in itself, concerning the determination of the level of liabilities for pension and disability insurance, which is increasing by 1.3 percentage points, but at the same time embodying a transitional provision that by the end of 1998, small income categories up to 800,00 dinars are determined in the calculation of the basis of the corresponding coefficients, which absolutely provide for this policy that none of the profits, and especially small profits will have no additional burden and that small profits are maintained, compared to the average burden of 0.98%, as they have practically on average, these profits have a sub-average of that burden. The lowest earnings charge one paid dinar with only 70 pairs in the name of taxes and contributions. As a result of all the proposed changes so far, a reduction in commitments will be achieved by the end of 1998 based on the tax on personal incomes of one and a half billion dinars. The reduction in budget and public revenues by one and a half billion dinars, as an incentive for tax evasion, will be compensated by the coverage of the so far untaxed revenues. At present, the big problem is avoiding tax payments, or what we call a gray economy. We must no longer allow one not so small part of the economic activity to take place outside the economy. More and more should the principle that any activity must be taxed is one of the more important obligations of the rule of law. In this respect, our ministry will have to have more specific tasks and results. Much more than ever, economic and administrative measures will be used. Also, we expect tax revenues to be achieved through the proposed reduction of relief and liberation, as well as the wider scope of the taxpayers. According to the amendments to the Law, it is explicitly prescribed that personal incomes, based on personal work, are also subject to taxation. When taxing employees, other personal incomes above the prescribed untaxed amounts receive the same treatment as profits. In order to spread the tax base, in the case of income tax from copyright, it is proposed to reduce the normised costs for which tax bases are reduced on average around 20% to 25%. The biggest changes are proposed when taxing income from self-employed activity: First, the circle of taxpayers is expanded. Income bonds also become natural persons dealing with higher income-related activities, such as land exploitation for agricultural purposes, the production of vines and fruit seedlings, kalems, etc. Secondly, the costs recognised in determining net income are reduced as the basis for taxation. For example, the tax exemption of income from newly established trade operations is abolished. Investments in their own activity are recognised as reducing the tax base by up to 50%, in principle as much as the taxpayer, as much as the state. Third, it is proposed to liberalise the system of flat-rate taxation of income on its own. It should be said that the government is preparing an additional package of measures to create a much better environment for independent and personal work. The proposed liberalisation of the pausal taxation system is only the first step on the road. A comprehensive change will be proposed, enabling business without excessive administration and bureaucratic procedures. In this respect, amendments to the Law on personal work, on trade, etc. will be proposed. A significant amendment to the Law on Income Tax concerns the abolition of the provisions on annual synthetic tax and their replacement of simpler solutions. Synthetic taxation of annual income, proposed to be abolished, was introduced in 1992, but never applied. At the end of each year, its application has been delayed at the last minute with long-term discussions and uncertainty for taxpayers and tax authorities. It is obvious that such taxation is faced with a number of objective interferences. They consist, above all, in the incomplete application of net gross earnings, both in labour law and collective bargaining. It is therefore proposed to delete the provisions on synthetic taxation and replace them with a solution similar to the earlier tax on the total net income of citizens. All citizens who earn an annual net income of more than 72,000 dinars are obliged to report and pay this tax. The net income of citizens would be taxed at rates of 10% to 20% with a corresponding reduction. The solution is simple, when payment is made, a smaller number of taxpayers registering income, and tax revenues are more certain, in any case based on the principle of fair taxation. It is estimated that, on the basis of this tax, about 200 million dinars will be made. Amendments and additions to the Law would begin from June 1st, the part relating to the personal income of employees, and in other parts of July 1st. The application of June 1st would also refer to new rates of contribution, so that health and pension funds would not reduce their incomes. Dear People's MPs, I propose that the National Assembly consider the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law and accept them in order to take effect from 1 June and thus create a space for a significantly better business environment for the economy and the planned discharge.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u666	Thank you. Whether the MP who singled out his opinion, Milan Mikovic, wants a word. There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u667	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, from Article 1. You can make sure that since 1994 we have 11 texts of this law. First, basic, then modified, then changed again, and today we change 11 times. So we'll have the 12th text when this passes. Please, I think our first conclusion is that it's necessary tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, to bring in one text in order to know what the law is. Everyone who applies it has trouble finding what it is. That's the first one. Second of all, I'm not going to get into this, I'm not even an expert, the others are going to talk about it. The union came out loud and asked for these regulations to be removed from the agenda. I don't have those arguments. I have my arguments. But by chance, it could have been at least once, or in two sentences to explain here, whether something like that has a basis or no basis. The next thing I'd like to point out, it's that the river here is that the basic idea is to reduce the load. I'm afraid, if you take into account what it says in this law, not what it says in the explanation of good intentions, but what it says in this law, what it's going to say in this law that we're going to be making today, which is about health insurance, that is, it's called the Social Insurance Contributions Act, and if there's something that the minister also mentioned here, not the law, but there's going to be a decision of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, then on the basis of all of that together we can assess whether there's a reduction or no reduction in the tax and all the other burdens going on. I'd like to point out one thing. You see, Article 36 provides for a change. That's a little bit of a change. There is again and for these reasons to think about passing a new law. Please, the conditions in which it should be done must be for all those who are taxpayers, to be given away early, explained, that anyone who wants to engage in any work must know in advance and can assess whether there is reason and interest to deal with any activity or not. It exists all over the world, it's a normal thing, it's something that makes people commit to what they're going to do, whether there's one pound of it that looks like it's better, or not. But right now, we have one small craftsman, or one small merchant, or something. However, this is a capital issue. Tomorrow we will look, expect, normally, that some people from the country, and not just from the country, will participate in actions that will, among other things, be undermined under some of our regulations and from this area. So we can't say that every year, for example, we've changed the law here five times, so last year twice. It can't be like that. If we want to invite someone to work here, we have to tell him in advance -- these are your terms, these are our regulations, and based on those regulations, which we won't change at any moment, in respect of which we won't be ready to do for a moment that this is better, so we're going to change there, sharpen, improve there, and these aren't the conditions in which the world wants to invest money. So, in this respect, we have to make sure that we really make such provisions, that we make them timely, that we guarantee as much as possible, of course there are always certain special circumstances, that they will be stable conditions and conjugations and burdens, all that can affect some people. You mentioned synthetic tax. Yes, it's true, every year we're faced with it, but still, not to be in doubt, every year the state tells us that she's not ready for something like that. If, and they are, I believe that there are normal and there are general conditions in which the economy works and acts, that they were, that they are not still normal, but that is, or at least I think it is, as we just said. I would very much like to, and I wrote down two basic goals, to be achieved by this regulation. It's one increase in employment, it's an exceptional problem, we've dealt with it a little bit, but through all these laws we have to deal with, because it depends on how we go. The other thing is the issue of the gray economy and its intruding into the system, which will also be subject to certain obligations. I'm not quite sure, but I'm not even professional, there'll probably be others who'll talk about it, that this is enough stimulating, on the one hand, and I'm afraid, and you mentioned, that the service needs two ways to perform, one of these are economic measures, and the other are administrative measures. Only economic measures will lead to a better situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u668	Do any of the MPs want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u669	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am Sanja Cekovic, MP from Negotina, MEP. In anticipation of this session, the public was informed, the agenda of the third session of the regular session of the Serbian Parliament, the contents of the agenda and the impact was the Law on the income tax, and a little later it was learned that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act would also be discussed. Whether the public had been uninformed or no one had dealt with in detail with this bill, only the headlines said that there would be a huge discharge of the economy and private entrepreneurs. If that wasn't the case, if it wasn't for the discharge, but for the burden, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the income tax, I'm going to try and prove it to you. Article 5, which changes the rate in the percentage amount of personal income tax, we will also talk about its positive or negative effect, when we also process the Law on Contributions, because these are two basic elements that make up the cost of costing personal income. He's reduced by this law, but as much as it'll cost us personal income, we'll do it under the second item of the agenda. We have a very unusual phenomenon in Article 9 when it comes to the matter we're talking about today. The last stance says, "The finance minister is closer to regulating the amount and the way in which the expenditure is determined for long-term investment maintenance of the underlying assets recognised in the tax balance." Social and private enterprises work twice a year, once a periodical account, and the second time a final account. What will be the business result of the company depends largely on the cost-income ratio. When the minister decides and why exactly the minister, why doesn't it regulate the Accounting Act, how much will be recognised in that tax balance, we really can't guess when we approach the final accounts. Since this is directly related to business operations, I ask that this Article 9 be precise and precise, so that people know all the necessary sizes when doing the final accounts. In Article 11, he is directly related to the relief and reduction of giving, as it is said in the newspaper today and speaks on television. He says there's no relief for new stores and there's only independent trades. You certainly know that the actions that are just beginning to work. Every private entrepreneur when he starts doing business, he has to come up with the means to fill his own store, secure the goods and start working. You certainly know that there are certain goods whose margin is by the Government's decision, is determined and does not come up with free price formation, so I hope you do not expect that this independent trade operation, which can often be located in a very small facility from which the whole family is supported, cannot make as much profit as we and that relief at the end of the year would have been lifted, and I hope that you know that independent trades by the Labour Act have the obligation to employ two workers. At the very beginning of the work, it is necessary to endure it, gentlemen, to fill the shop, to hire a worker, and to wait for the end of the year to see if anything will be earned. Article 12. - the obligor who invests in fixed assets in its own registered activity, this means that it exclusively binds itself to private entrepreneurs-investment in the purchase of shares or shares in existing legal entities or in long-term public loan bonds - reduces the tax base for the amount of investment and up to 50% of the tax base. In a law that has been in force until today, the tax base has been recognised by these people at 100%. Why it's important to talk about Article 12. Anyone who invests in the underlying assets, anyone who deals with the production business, are usually producers of the underlying assets, have very little, gives hope and promises to this society to expand their activity and that this business will be dealt with seriously. That they will do this job, that they will make a certain income, and that by certainly increasing the size of their work, the businessman will be useful and will certainly employ many more of our children, who are having a hard time working today. That's why I think reducing the tax base from 100 to 50% doesn't promise gentlemen that we've charged anyone, but we've put a lot of pressure on them. I'd like to introduce you to one member in a short while, and that's Article 29. It changes and says, "The obligor is obliged to pay the established annual income tax within 15 days of delivery of the tax settlement." It's common to pay 15 days after getting a solution. You certainly know that we also have taxpayers who have business disorders and maybe we should use the old law and let these people pay in wars. Make it two or three wars. So there was no need to be a member of 155. The law changes. With this new member, what we did to get paid right away, we didn't predict what would happen to people who had a tax overpayment. Whether the republican public revenue administrations will be obliged to return the tax or there will be some agreement between the users and them that it may be re-registered elsewhere. The SPO will not vote for this amendment to the Law on Income Tax, because the main thing in our programme is to stimulate and help small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u670	Thank you. There's a word from MP Dusko Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u671	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, I feel the need to say a few words about the adoption of this legal act, and I believe this is the most significant task of the Serbian Parliament at this meeting from the aspect of life and work, real flows in our country -- Yugoslavia, Serbia. This is, therefore, the most significant procedure and concerns directly those issues related to the vital interests of citizens, employees, factories, exporters and workers, and these solutions are also very interested partners from abroad that we work with. I'll tell you why, of course. Two key objectives in the realisation of economic policy, two key tasks that we have in the economic sphere are reforms, therefore, implementation of reforms, on the one hand, and on the other, the continuous increase in production, and thus exports. In order to implement reforms in the part of the fiscal system, it is necessary to make one permanent, consistent system of legal solutions in the area, which will be compatible with solutions in the European Union. This means, tax neutrality, regulatory stability, lower tax bases, wider tax coverage and through the neutrality of fiscal policy solutions, in fact, to stimulate healthy economic activity and increase exports. So these are short-term reform definitions that we have to realise. I think these changes and additions, which we need to adopt today, are actually a major step towards the realisation of these reform definitions. The second task is to increase production and exports. It's an imperative standing before us. I think these amendments and additions to the law, which are also the subject of our consideration and I'm sure of adoption, are actually a significant contribution to this increase in production. First of all, the way the rates are going to be reduced by a quarter. So the burden of the economy, the burden above all that part of the economy that represents the operator of activity and production and the increase of employment, exports, for them this is extremely important, because reducing the rate by one quarter is an economic and psychological incentive at this point, which is very important. I also underline this, that it will be appreciated by the partners we work with, that we make deals with, and will appreciate the world's banks that are now giving us credit lines to stimulate production and exports. What are the key solutions here that I, as first of all a businessman, see? It is, therefore, that it is going to dissipate the economy through the rate reduction and one broader tax procedure, the expansion of a base that represents an additional step towards discharging that part of the economy that is actually carrying 90% of the tax burden at the moment. Therefore, the existing rates that have so far been escalating and progressive and ranged from 15 per cent to 30 per cent will be reduced to 14 per cent. It will be rates that are proportionate, which is a major change and very important for those run by businesses and business entities, to plan that in the coming period they will target their activity, whether to sell on the domestic market, export, what policy price to lead. So this is a very, very important commitment. This reduction from 1.24 dinars of profit load to below 1 dinar is a major incentive, a real one, which now allows us to make different plans, procedures, and, simply, I would specify it, allows us to focus most of the funds on export production as well. That's very important. Expansion of tax bases, I assume you listened carefully to the opening statement of the finance minister, which would lead to a direct relationship with the fight against the gray economy. Therefore, the expansion of procedures through changes and additions of the Law will allow new sources for the budget, and will certainly affect the growth of resources, where these sources are made through contributions, and that is primarily for pensions and health care. It's also another encouragement. A more restrictive approach to tax relief is also an important component in the amendments to this law. Therefore, it is another contribution to tax neutrality that is important to all of us. As an MP, I would like to point out one more thing here, and that is the change relating to the annual income tax of the citizens. First, it simplifies the solution. Second, it goes primarily to those citizens who have high incomes and that contributes to one tax justice. For my part, I am making a full contribution to these amendments and additions to the Law, due to the increase in production and the significant contribution to the reform procedures undertaken by the Government and other entities on the economic, political stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u672	Thank you. There's a word from MP Milivoja Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u673	Dear President, fellow MPs, allow me to present my vision of the extremely significant tax package that lies ahead of us. Of course, the basic principle that the government has put into the resolutions of this law this time, that is to dissipate the economy, I think, to the greatest extent possible at this point, is taken into consideration and quite concrete solutions are ahead of us. Let me also point out, given what the minister said, towards further development and improvement of tax laws, given their importance for overall relations and innovation. Certainly, starting with the basic requirements of businessmen and businesses, which were above all on the line of the need to dissipate the economy, which should primarily be in the function of liberating part of the funds to fill the craft funds of the economy. Also, these requirements of the economy were and were, in fact, on the line of reducing tax rates, i.e. reducing the fiscal burden of the economy, as well as the need to expand the circle of taxpayers and redistribute the tax burden. Also, there is an express requirement to approach amendments to the Law on Income Taxes in order to ensure the collection of annual income tax for the citizens of 98 years, to open the space for further tax redundancies of the economy. With all this in mind, I think what we've been offered here today, these demands are to the greatest extent possible. It's also announced the unification of tax laws. As is known, they are today defined in several legal acts and that is something that really needs to be speeded up and brought. It's also a good thing that the idea of synthetic taxation was finally abandoned, so the provisions of the law that were on that line were deleted. When it comes to flat-rate taxation, businessmen have one requirement, which is primarily on the line that whenever possible, flat-rate taxation is avoided, that tax and tax rates are largely the same and applied to the economic power of the economic operator, because it is really very difficult to calculate and measure sometimes how effective it is, I would say, how effective it is. We often have a situation where more economically powerful people pay less because of this approach. What is particularly potential in public these days is that in the lower earnings that are primarily characteristic of a good part of our economy, such as textiles, such as footwear, etc., if a proportional rate is applied, which is proposed here, of 14%, and if this increase occurred, when it comes to the rate of contributions for PIO, then there would really be an increase in the total taxes for lower incomes. We've heard here quite precisely that the government has gone to one solution, pragmatically, that the basis for applying these tax rates, that is, at the rate for contributing to the reduction, so that the total taxes for these profits would be lower. This is what is on the line of interest for the economy and ultimately satisfies today a huge number of companies, i.e. employees in these companies. Of course, the government could have gone in some other way to achieve such a simple result, that is, the result of the total discharge. First of all, the economy is interested in the overall discharge, whether it was tax or contribution, in smoking it's kind of the same, but I think the solution could be applied to reduce the rate of lower incomes, the rate of profit for taxes. That way we'd just have similar effects. I've got a simulation here. So, for example. If this were applied to 500 dinar earnings, given the proposals that are in the contribution rate, then the current total payload for this type of earnings was 1:0,836, and if applied in the original bill proposed by the Government without these coefficients, then this burden would indeed be greater and that would be 1 :0,909. All I'm talking about is tax rates and net profit contributions. So, one of the interventions that's been said here by the minister I think we're coming to a level of burden, that's really true, the profits that are in general lower than the case so far. When it comes to non-taxable amounts for certain personal incomes, such as regress and a warm meal, I think it should work simply on this, since these absolute amounts of personal income are exempt from taxation and are eventually taxed, they are so in January 1997, this untaxable amount for a warm meal, for example. Of the 300 dinars, 56% of the average profit in the economy, and now it's down to only 36%. Part of the annual vacation regress, which is not taxed, amounted to 131% of the average earnings, and is now reduced to 83%. I would simply suggest that the following laws, in particular the aggregate law, ensure that these changes first and foremost maintain a relative amount of non-taxable income for a warm meal and a regress for an annual holiday. One more thing, I think we should basically support the commitment to secure the annual income tax for the citizens of 1998. In this respect, it is quite acceptable to simplify the process of accounting and taxing on the income of citizens on an annual basis, as the total amount of the billing work is reduced and the real basis for the realisation of this job is created, which is particularly important in the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u674	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u675	Ladies and gentlemen, you have said that this law is very important to you, but right now we are talking about a fifth point -- a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The gentleman who discussed it here -- either the president didn't want to tell him or he didn't know what he was talking about, so he talked all the time about point nine -- a bill amending the Social Security Contribution Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you want to have a serious discussion, at least learn to know what you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u676	He has the word Jorvanka Tabakovic, minister of ownership transformation.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u677	I'm falling into line with people who have never put their political professions under their feet, and today I'm pleased to talk about a law that's from my profession and my field. I would like to strengthen one yet positive beginning, which marks a whole new course in the work of this government, by starting with the remarks made to this law. Some are founded as fear, but not as a fact. I don't know how it can be noted that this is the 12th text of the law and that this is related to the stability of tax regulations, if it's a reduction in tax rates. So how can someone be a problem if they didn't count on this change, and it means less business costs to them? I understand the need for opposition, for criticism, because it is the purpose of the opposition and its policy-making, but the honesty of the political performance implies the following. The opposition deals with politics to come to power one day, but honesty implies that politics does not mean public deception. I understand Mr. Mikovic's fear that the reduction of tax rates, which is nicely given in the explanation, does not have to mean the same in practice, if concrete solutions are not clear enough. We've had cases like this before. However, if this time there is no change in the account from gross to net, you remember very well such changes to the law, I really think that it is an unfounded fear, that what is called a reduction in tax burden will not be in reality tomorrow. I fully claim, and you yourselves are witnessing this legislative project, that it is going to a broad field of simplified legal regulations, which will tomorrow in application mean that solution which is contained in the proposal. Regardless of the fact that this law is sufficiently affirmative in itself, because by a quarter it reduces the tax burden, I have to support what the Ministry of Finance and the entire government have started to do in the sense of implementing tax regulations. So, not just one verbal commitment to simple regulations, to taxation that does not mean expropriation of assets, but to taxation that means one reasonable profit treatment. I think that's the way to keep going. That's why it's a completely unfounded remark, I find it necessary to look at it, that the amendment of the part of the law regarding the taxation of trade is restrictive, because under the economy it's not just trade, and as it's explained and written, not only by statistical reports, but also by what we can see in daily life, which is the number of trades. It means that we don't need to stimulate that area further this way and that the budget, which we expect to solve many other problems, is being denied for one part of the income. The additional reason for this to be done and passed by a legal solution saying that the condition is that the newly established action, for example in an undeveloped area, is to exercise the right to tax exemption is to also show profit. All of you are in a direct or indirect way witnessing how accounting reports, including the final account itself, are conditionally forged. And they're really falsifying themselves, because the gray economy is something that's not just what's not fully covered, it's not street smuggling. The gray economy covers one good part of allegedly legal activity, where not all the profits are actually being made. I think this law is one of the first attempts to put that share of profits aside, in fact, into taxable flows. I think it's very serious to say that this government won't hesitate to take it from whoever has it. It is a tax that should cover all annual incomes and I believe that it will come across a very positive echo in the general public, that this country wants to take from whoever it has, to transfer state goods in the most fair and fairest way. I think it would be very serious of all those who participate in parliamentary life, whether they are on the side of positions or opposition, to allow this government to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u678	There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u679	Since 1991, this is the first time I've been told by someone in this House, especially someone from the government, that I've tried to deceive the public. I can't agree with that assessment. And I believe that the vast majority of those people who have been here with me since or since could not make that conclusion. I said this law was changed and changed 12 times. This text of the law. And I said it creates difficulties for those who apply the law. It doesn't mean it's not allowed, it doesn't mean it can't be done like that, it changes the law as many times as you want, but it doesn't mean it wouldn't be easier and it's better to have in one text of the law what's written and we don't have to turn everything else around. You say, and I didn't want to get involved in certain professional things because normally I don't, a gray economy can be interpreted as we mostly interpreting, those who don't pay you at all fall into the gray economy, not the normal economy, and those who don't pay at all or all of their obligations, they don't belong to the gray economy, but they belong to something that's not allowed again. It doesn't have to be called that, it can be those who avoid or partially avoid their obligations, but it's within the normal economy and normal everything we have. And finally, another thing that's mentioned here, which is that the government is trying to take from whoever it is. That's what we all stand for. And not to take from the one who doesn't, because, first of all, we can't even take from him, and secondly, it's a normal thing and it's last time an assistant or deputy minister used on the Committee, he said on the ground we're on the principle of tax justice and we all agree on that. It would be absurd to argue, but we can ask you whether this principle was actually applied in this law, when in the provision of a new article 101b, which refers to the annual income tax of citizens, the border made on a total net income of 72,000 new dinars, i.e. the border was made on income of more than 6,000 dinars per month. Is this for our terms a normal limit or should it be a limit, in conditions where we normally make and earn money, so that we can also support ourselves from our profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u680	Replica response, Minister Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u681	We're here for the law, not some personal relationship. I don't know what other word to use if it's a reduction, and without a change in the accounting of personal incomes it calls something that's not certain it is. How do we call someone a little thief or a thief? You know that well as a lawyer. And why don't we talk about uncontestable things that are positive and why we should say that it's hard for someone to apply the law, even though it's in his favor. Don't bring me down to the level of discussion where I should advise the procurement of literature and journals, very cheap, where there are refined texts of the law. But simply, what stands stands stands. The reduction in tax rates, taxes and contributions, according to this law, regardless of how someone interprets it or not, it is a reduction and a dispensation of the economy. It remains an open question whether this reduction will be used, that this difference from businesses should not go to tax authorities is used for other purposes, production, or consumption - we might be able to talk about it. But about this, that this law is positive, and that it is first and that as such it should be commended and that there should be no doubt about it, it also stands. When it comes to the stability of tax regulations, it is always said that taxpayers should not be disturbed by new laws, if the benefits of such rules are insignificant. Well, is it a meaningless 24% reduction?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u682	I thank you, he has the word of Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u683	In order to clarify some of the things that are apostrophe and which are not standing here, I must say that we have already received some support for the adoption of this law, as far as business is concerned, because it is quite clear, based on these revenues, which the budget of the Republic of Serbia is making these days, that we have slowed down the payout, that we are not making the tax out of that instrument, because the economy is waiting for the Assembly to decide and that it can pay the workers at a lower cost, in order to achieve this effect, which we are talking about. It's a very specific thing and a thing that, as it's brought here in doubt and makes one platform that's cosmetics, and not substance, it doesn't stand. The views of parliamentary groups can certainly be freely defined, but I think that at least the arguments that have been made in public are here concrete, the matter of finance is a very specific matter, as far as numbers and balances are concerned, and I don't think they stand. I'll start with Mr. Mikovic's exposure. It apostrophes 12 amendments to the Law on Income Tax as a problem, which is a legal and technical problem of applying to the economy, which burdens people, which has been observed. In the opening statement, I said that there would be codification at the next session of the Assembly, meaning a single tax code, and we have already accepted that as our obligation, which will be worked on and which will ensure that certain positions in profit tax and property tax are adjusted accordingly. But all in one law, whose component will be this law. Otherwise, if we weren't going to that, we'd be going for a consolidated text. Secondly, we did not look back on the Syndicate and attitudes of the Syndicates, who seek retreat. I think we've explained ourselves with the Union. I was in the Union to discuss the subject of the influence of this law on the spot. A statement was made there because they did not have a whole package, as you do not see a concrete decision, because the Serbian Parliament does not decide on the rates of contributions to pension-involvement insurance, but is decided by law by the Fund's Management Board, and consent is given by the government. As part of the overall package, in order to avoid what would have happened that was not envisaged, a letter to the Pension Insurance Fund was given in mid-May to prepare the changes. And that is to ensure selective application in the lowest earnings, so that there is no increase in that segment, because we absolutely do not accept the role of this tax reduction policy to the extent that they pay, I said in the opening statement, to increase their obligations with respect to taxes and contributions. Obligations, i.e. contributions, will increase, but will greatly reduce obligations for taxes. It's a clean bill. This is the content of the points of amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which will increase the contribution rate for health care, which is the content of this package of ours, because on the burden of budget income and tax revenue we have paid one part of the income, so as not to make these funds, which are burdened, we know the situation in these areas. The third question is, what does that mean, summation, something we're reducing, the second we're increasing. It's a bill and that bill is contained in this explanation. This is what we've had in the debate on committees. The total disbursement based on a major tax reduction was used as a basis for achieving the first goal of discharging the economy with a billion and a half dinars. If we hadn't gone to a policy to resuscitate on the basis of a reduction in the base of the contribution, it would have been bigger. But it would endanger additional functions of health funds and pension-inhabited insurance. But it's in the sum, so there's room left for their rates to increase even though they're reducing the total procedure, you're discharging the salaries and the total burden instead of 1.24 being 0.98. That thing is the general element of that package and the politics and we stand behind it. I think it's a very important question of the relationship between this law and independent personal work. I think this law makes important positive moves, which seem to be out of the question, and there are a lot of people involved in this area. First of all, we predicted that in an independent personal work right, so-called. pausal taxation, for which there is an observation that it is a relapse and that it was meant to go on a real basis, and we know what the real problem is. This means, in relation to the people involved in this work, certain administrations, balance-making, records, bookkeeping and so forth. We gave them the right, so they don't have to use it if they don't like it, to move to a smoking tax based on a cut, which is determined by the Administration of Revenue, and to ultimately regulate their relationship with the state. We stimulated the right to a flat tax because before the law, it couldn't be a flat-rate person who had more than two employees, and now it's been erased. Whether it will be stimulating for employment and that people, who are engaged in self-respecting personal work, accept and receive a second and third man, are normal to do so. And you saw that applying to the records, introducing the working relationship of workers at the moment, if you give him a small salary, so little tax and total burden. Is that what we've made arguments to those who say - I'm not going to report workers, because the state prescribes enormously high obligations for taxes and contributions? Look how much you need to give, you have it in the table, for pension and health insurance through that lowest, low salary on the application of workers, to achieve those pension rights and health care rights. We think that's how we create this economic environment for legalizing flows, which were currently in the realm of the gray economy. That's why it's also about economic and administrative measures, because we think we have a lot of arguments that in the next period, those who try to avoid reporting to workers, not paying taxes and contributions, we have all the rights and arguments to remove it. As far as the Minister's right to do this, in the Accounting Act, which is not the tax code, the right to reserve the cost is given right to the holder of the accounting balance. However, this right can also mean the right to display a non-existent cost under the tax balance and avoid payment of commitments. We can't just dissipate and give an absolute right that anyone can show they have no profit. Our efforts will be precisely at this part of taxing the profits of businesses, as is the case with personal work, that the real state of profit of businesses is shown on the basis of the tax balance, whose rules of production will be clearly established. This right will be the same for all, not to burden anyone more or less, but only to be limited, in order to avoid possible abuse. In the end, around different times of application of this law, we say that one part of the law is applied immediately, which is discharge. The second part of the law, which concerns the application of the rules, is the right to determine whether it will be flat-rate or not. To choose from this, it's a month's notice. What's the problem? Should I postpone this application for a month? Who is in favour of delaying this discharge within a month, which is absolutely necessary and at this point a positive process, which will contribute to improving the conditions of the government's commitment and achieving its objectives?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u684	There's a word from MP Nebojsa Atanakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u685	My fellow MPs, I had no intention of reporting under this law. However, there are obviously some things here that are not clear enough. I was very intrigued by the behaviour of government members, who are practically found in some very appropriate words of criticism that it is an attack, especially an attack on the Law, on the Government and the like. You know how, indeed, marketingly speaking, there's too much talk here of a significant reduction in the burden of the economy. Let me remind you, the economy is burdened with the absolute amounts needed to pay, and therefore, if 24% is added to that salary, it is certainly a burden on the economy. But it's not the only burden. It's not right that simply, on one side, you can absolutely say that it's convenient, on the other hand, that we have a bigger grip and greater uncertainty. I think there were words here about how we don't get into suspense. I'd point to Article 12. Or, in the case where we have the establishment of a trade store, no matter how we look at this activity, we have to appreciate that, that someone who had the intention of opening a trade shop and also hoped that that year they would not pay taxes, that they would be freed as other economic factors, then he's unsettled when half a year in the law comes to him that they would no longer belong to that category. Sometimes they can be small funds, but it's all appropriate, for someone, small funds are big funds. I think it was, like, the only objections to this law. It's hard to believe that it's possible to make one budget balance by now reducing donations and reducing contributions, because that would mean that we have too much, that we've predicted the budget as too wide, that it doesn't need that money, etc. I don't think there's any reason for government representatives to react in this way to, I think, yet relatively small criticism of this law. Indeed, tax laws are changing, and not so much in some sense, as they change in some details relating to major or minor interventions, to changing the conditions of fiddling, especially when it comes to small businesses. I was a member of a group that, several years ago, was formed by Professor Avramovic and was then preparing to start introducing a tax on additional value. I really don't know why this tax is avoided, which is just adapted to market economies and is applied in all countries except ours. I don't know, maybe it's not applicable in Albania. It's a serious law that doesn't require continuous corrections, as it seems uninterrupted with our tax law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u686	There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u687	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Income Tax of Citizens in 1994, the Government, as a proposer of this law, in an explanation of why the Law is proposed as a major and revolutionary shift in the taxation system, cited the introduction of principles of synthetic taxation, with further explanations that this is a model of taxation applied in the countries of Western Europe and that Serbia, or the SR Yugoslavia, if it is seeking unification with Europe, should comply with its tax regulations. We accepted that. The explanation given by the government in this proposal for amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act has said that so far since 1994, there has been a constant delay in the application of synthetic taxation, and as a major reason, the technical inability of the state authorities responsible for implementing the tax policy, it says, is about two million and 400 thousand taxpayers. If we look at both the personnel and the material equipment of our regional units of the Republic Public Revenue Administration in our municipalities, it could not be said that they are unprepared to take over such a job. Every taxpayer when he goes to any field unit in a few minutes, not to mention a second, the computer officer throws out how much he owes on behalf of unpaid advances in a few seconds of a tight interest account due to a delay in fulfilling. We have a large number of taxpayers based on the payment of property taxes, based on the payment of taxes on carrying out their own business, farmers pay taxes and who do not pay taxes to all citizens in our system. So that argument cannot be accepted. However, in my opinion, there is something hiding here, and a trap that I think the Government and the Resolute Ministry want to conceal, both from us MPs and from the public and citizens of Serbia. I apologize, if I'm wrong, because I'm certainly not familiar with this matter to the extent that a colleague is a finance minister and a deputy minister, who was a reporter. If I understand correctly, we, with this proposed amendment to the law, are erasing... [[Laughter]] [[in joke]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u688	The minister of ownership transformation is Jorvanka Tabakovic, and Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u689	I apologize if I was wrong. The draft law on amendments and amendments ahead of us introduces a new part, a third, which reads - the annual income tax of citizens. But the existing law deletes, if I understand correctly, my colleague Tabakovic, part of the second, annual income tax? (Glass from the O.R.: Delete.) So it's wiped out. And that part that is deleted has a member of the 10th that says: tax income and says "the basis of income tax is tax income". And tax income is obtained when the tax income is denied the standard and non-standard deductions prescribed by this law. The provisions of the Law which prescribe standard and non-standard deductions are also deleted. If I understand correctly. If I didn't understand correctly, I apologize to the MPs who understood it well. (A voice from the O.R.: you didn't get it right. ) In the part of the Law that is deleted, there is a Article 14 which says: "Unstandard deduction... "Let us not forget, the non-standard deduction affects the reduction of the tax base, or tax income. In these unstandard deductions, point two. 12., it belongs to the following: spent on the supply of medicines, health and orthopaedic aids, as well as on the treatment and rehabilitation of health institutions or through home care of the obligor and the maintenance of family members. In a situation where no drug that can be obtained through a prescription in state pharmacies can be obtained, we are in a situation where we give half of the taxable income to obtain drugs, medical aids and resources. Well, I'd rather have this law and this government confess to me this taxable income, which wouldn't even exist, to keep me a higher tax rate, than to increase my tax base, and to reduce my tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u690	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? No one's answering. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. (There is an MP from the hall after the search has been concluded. Please contact us next time before the conclusion, in time. The People's Messenger Rankovic has the word, and let Zlatan Peručić be prepared. Please, everyone will get a word they want to say, just pick up on time, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u691	Thanks, buddy. I would ask you for a few words, and I want to tell Mr. Milačić, and as my colleague and Mrs. Tabakovic have said, it is a lie that the personal income cuts are reduced, that is a fraud. Somewhere, at a level below 1,000 dinars on personal incomes, more than 1,000 dinars to those of your six are shrinking, and over that they are normally increasing again. My colleague Sanja didn't bring it up, but she's going to take it out in the second part of the exposure, exactly how much of the dinars are increasing. When it comes to trade, there is a big problem because the ministers are exporting and giving to trade shops in this country. Everyone so far, and I hope they don't do it in the future. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u692	Please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u693	It's just a reflection of their culture, I can't do anything about it. In order for trade operations to have an interest in working, like any other store, not to be singled out, and they should be exempt from taxes during the first year of life. And what exactly is your interest? That the goods you sell without a sales tax, which is much higher than the taxes you're going to collect from these shops, you're still selling on black, is much more collected than sales taxes, than sales taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u694	Thank you, sir. There's a word from the People's Councilman, Golden Perucic. Please, sit down... I want a replica. Wait, who are you talking to? Customs? All right, first, Golden Peručić.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u695	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, please, for the sake of full information and accurate knowledge, a professional and professional debate on this text has been conducted on two occasions before Parliament's meeting, and, please, before you, a report by the Committee that passed this law without the exception of any MP, or representative of any parliamentary group. In this regard, I must say that, as a member of the Committee, my colleague Sanja, as a member of the SPI, has said less and made suggestions, objections, questions and at the Committee itself, which she has said here. However, the explanations given by the Government represented for the Committee in general the kind of argument that I would say in a few words, quite briefly, which was sufficiently convincing that the Government would resolve some of the issues raised here, so that the SPO did not dispute the Law, and I am personally a little surprised by the fact that today it was said not to vote. That's right. So, by talking about it, I have to say this and remind myself of one thing, when we've been objectively increasing the burden of economy, there's been less debate than now that we're objectively and really discharging enough, maybe it's not enough. But to remind you, no one is talking about the government, and we have asked and clearly received a reply to the Finance Committee, remained firm in its policy that existing and acquired rights, the law established in the field of social policy, pension disability insurance and in the overall protection and overall acquired rights do not question, but rather that the government will continue to implement the area governed by the law, even trying to make it more regular and orderly. Don't forget, though it's very unpopular, ladies and gentlemen MPs, when somewhere, I say so reduces the burden, then probably on the other side should reduce the right, and here it's a serious effort, which seems to me that the Government is taking on itself, and that's why it needs to be supported, to reduce the burdens and remain rights. It's not at all simple and easy, it's a calculation and all that math will show it. Therefore, if we received assurances, and the Ministry of Finance confirmed at two sessions of the Committee on the same issue - what about the protection of the lowest incomes, we received assurance that the mechanism that goes through the pension fund – the disability fund will protect the lowest incomes, which we all sought and discussed. I ask you, that the government is bound, and in this she assuredly gave us arguments, that there will be no burden, but on the contrary, but that the lowest personal incomes that the union has spoken of will be protected. The following can be said: it has been announced, and as a Committee, we have advocated the urgent regulation of the entire tax system. This is the beginning or even better said part of that package, which should really be done in one cell by the tax system. If we advocate tax justice, if you want social justice, I wouldn't call - we'll tax those who are and who have higher personal incomes, but we'll tax richer, richer and more, it's part of tax justice, it'll simplify the administration process and everything else. It's really about reducing the burden, whether it's enough or not, at this point it's a move that needs to be supported, because it's not marketing - political, but it's an obligation to really move in that direction and represent the realisation of the policy that we're up for, that there's a real and real redundancy of the economy. After all, it is possible that complicated mathematics is possible, and by the first next session, which the minister was talking about, we can see in concrete mathematics from our own personal income whether it is or not, if this is all we talked about. Obviously, we have very practical methods here to prove ourselves. Therefore, as chairman of the Finance Committee, I must say that we have discussed all these issues, and all the representatives of the parties in Parliament have finally supported these intensities and have supported the law in general and in particular, but since the amendments have failed, that is the case. And finally, let me just say this -- we're in favour, and we said that, and we think it's starting to go into the overall reform of the tax system. He can't do it all at once. It is true that it has been tried and done countless times, but it is also true that today this is moving in the direction of that kind of tax system, which means burdening the economy within real possibilities. The stimulants that are realistic today. So one step towards this, not only to dispel the economy, but also to enter the codification, which cannot be without federal regulations and without federal laws and to enter everything we're talking about. There's no dispute that it couldn't all be settled by amending one law. But there's also no dispute, I'm also a professional who's done math, there's no dispute that this is a real discharge. There's no dispute on the other side that none of us dared to ask a question, what about rights. The law, the government says, remains rights, the government enforces the rights acquired by law. Therefore, in this respect and in this way by discussing and clarifying certain provisions, in particular provisions on the lowest labour price, in particular provisions on tax justice, on the liberalisation of flat-rates and other provisions, the Committee has finally adopted this law, supported and welcomed the government's insistence that, in these conditions, economically in which we are located, the process for which we stand. Therefore, this process is precisely why it is significant, which is a discharge, of course not for all, but for the greatest part, first of all, the economy, while at the same time it does not end on the other side the tasa on the scale of any acquired right, but on the contrary, it remains a firm policy to continue to implement it. Please bear in mind that with this I wanted to, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen MPs, to clarify only that part of the debate that has been qualified and the result of this debate has been given to you in the report of the Finance Committee before you. Therefore, the Finance Committee has supported this law as a whole with all the additional elements that I have said.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u696	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zoran Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u697	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I support the bill, where some colleagues want to make a lie. I have to say, as a man, I don't like it when I hear a man in my age very often, and I don't wonder when he comes from the SPO party, because she's telling a lie. I have to say it's ugly to say for my colleagues who work as customs, that we are the ones who steal this country. You should be ashamed of yourself for that, and you should be ashamed of the years you have. I've got to say that these people are working day and night, and they probably found you somewhere when you tried to get into this country illegally, or take some stuff out. Please don't use such lies. We won't blame you for accusing us, but try again, we'll find you again. (Glass from the O.R.:...) Curtis. Don't call anyone. Call him when Mr. Michaly Curtis is present.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u698	Free Rankovic - reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u699	Apparently, a fellow MP from the SPS, as far as I can tell, did not listen to the discussion. I didn't say a word about customs. Exported goods, produced in our factories, which on the black market, a colleague, goes over 60 percent. You didn't understand. In particular, the burden of personal income to 800 dinars is increasing, mathematically. Take, buddy, a pen and calculate. There's more isolation than they've ever been before. If you can't do that, your problem. I didn't call you a liar or a thief. I've just brought out a factual state in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u700	Thank you. There's a word from MP Dusko Vlatkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u701	Dear Members of Parliament, Your Honor, I think we have entered into expert details of the debate, where we who have been working for many years sometimes have differences and I believe that the Assembly should discuss certain provisions as well. What the chairman of the Finance Committee said, I think there was an opportunity on the Committee and that there was a detailed debate on individual solutions and that, in essence, the Assembly should support it. I suggest we support and support - MPs from our group. It is crucial that disbursement of the economy through this proposal is clear and that the commitment of this assembly, especially the Syndicate, to earn less burden, i.e. that personal incomes are less burdensome and that other types of tax procedures for general social needs are found, here it is suggested that this principle of net -- gross, this profit ratio goes below 1 to 1, and that details are important. The third principle, i.e. the one that asked the Union to make lower profits, up to 800 dinars, do not burden this mechanism, because the accounts indicated that if this proposal around the rate of the contribution was given, without any corrections, it could happen because it includes the basis for the tax calculation. The government, or finance minister, has repeated here after the pay phone, and the Committee has made it clear that, in its agreement for these rates, it will make sure that no category of receipts, in particular receiving with lower basics, those related to the lowest incomes and receipts of 800 dinars, will come into a situation that is more burdensome than they were, or that they will have a discharge. I think if we accept that, then that's why we're having a further discussion on that basis. We have to trust people who have to professionally do it and calculate it. However, I think it is even more important than that in the reform of the overall economic system, this part is certainly one of the very important and perhaps most significant in the period ahead, because the overall fiscal system and the tax system, not sufficiently trained, to use this term because of the change and structure of our economy, it must be adapted. Therefore, these changes that are related to these taxes, i.e. tax laws, will continue to be and we should not be afraid, but we should look at the overall changes and additions and reforms of the tax system, especially from the point of view of the single Yugoslav market, which has been violated, which we also see as not being arranged in the area that we wanted to do. The two republics do not have the same tax laws, especially that part of the tax relating to sales tax and excise products. That is what the hearings are about and there are conditions to be arranged at the level of the federal state or in the same way to regulate both republics. We will surely, as the Assembly and as MPs, advocate to do so, and then remove this part of the issues that are related to the burden, with our conclusion being that we still need to reduce the payload, and that tax burdens are transferred to other forms of taxation and that tax bases are expanded. Therefore, by supporting this approach, the Yugoslav Left MPs, and I believe all others, will vote in favour of this amendment and supplement, with the conclusion that we are confident that the government will provide a mechanism that will not lead to an increase in the burdens of these below and thus removes that part of the union's objection and that tax burdens should continue to be transferred to other forms of taxation, to create a single tax system at the country level.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u702	He has the word Borislav Milacic, the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u703	Very short and without long exposure. This law, which needs to raise hands, decides to tax the rate, which is now 15-30% - 15% is the lowest and 30% is the highest - should be translated into a single rate of 14%. Who shows me the math that by raising his hand for such a law for a single dinar will burden any salary I accept to talk about who lies to, who doesn't lie to whom. Therefore, the least reduction that will happen under this law in all is 16%. That's how much his rate's going to go down. That means that by yesterday, a 15% rate will be applied to 14%. The second question - what about the total burden, since we have the contribution question. But that policy is run by the government, and it stands behind that bill and has all the elements and mechanisms to make the total pay grip based on the contribution so that it reduces the total intervention and secures what is called politics. Therefore, I think that as far as the bill is concerned and the definition of whether or not this law on citizens' income should be passed, whether or not it relieves or not, is an imaginary question and is absolutely clear on the basis of simplest mathematics. Another thing about independent trades, I should inform you that nearly half of these independent shops are registered in the area of trade, and that wouldn't bother us, we're interested in making them much more, but we're doing one other thing with regard to the abolition of that tax discharge of stimulants. We had a situation to go to the variant of setting up a store, a year's work, shutting down the store to re-establish tomorrow, and then never what the profits are made in that area enter into the obligation of taxation. It is our struggle to narrow these speculative actions, which exist in certain areas, which are produced by law itself, narrow down and reduce them to a real extent. No one is against these actions and normally, they will continue to function. I think it's a work that's developing too far, and it would be of greater interest for the manufacturing of craftsmanship to work to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u704	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. End of vote. It voted 139 against 23, with two abstentions, not four, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. There were 143 votes against 22, with two abstentions, not two, a total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 1997. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received a report from the Finance Committee, which had no objection to the bill and proposed that it be adopted by the National Assembly. You received a report from the Legislative Committee, which accepted the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He wants to. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u705	Dear President, respected members of the government, respected MPs, the final budget account for 1997 is another confirmation that the money of the budget, collected through taxes and contributions paid by all Serbian citizens, is being spent in a non-domestic way, not by budget law, but by government decisions. I would also like to remind myself that the Serbian Renewal Movement did not vote for the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 1997 Budget, so it had no support for the Serbian Renewal Movement. Many examples are that budget funds are not spent as foreseen by the Budget Law. I'll give you some examples. An example of one and two -- for the government's apartments was spent on 19 instead of 8 million dinars, as foreseen by the 1997 Budget Law, but the Ministry of Interior remained short of 15 million dinars for apartments. So for the government's apartments, about 250 percent higher, and for the police's apartments, about 50% lower. Example three - The Ministry of Culture received and spent significantly less resources on cultural monuments than the special importance and theatre, as foreseen by the Budget Law. Cultural monuments under the protection of the state in Leskovac, Yasun's monasterys, were again bypassed last year. I'm going to ask the culture minister not to do it again this year. I don't see a minister. For the monastery of the Holy Mother, one of the Yasun monastery next year marks 500 years of its existence. An example of four -- the Ministry of Health in 1997 spent significantly less resources on clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac than is provided for by the Budget Law. I'd like you to explain to the citizens why that is. Example five - Ministry of Agriculture. The agricultural budget received about 100 million dinars less than prescribed by the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 1997 budget. For example, as much funding as the Agrarian budget has received has also received Radio Television of Serbia via a TV tax on electricity, which is popularly referred to in the people as Shessel's TV tax. So, as far as Serbia's agriculture is concerned, so is RTS. Example six - Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Almost a million dinars less than prescribed by the Budget Law, which you adopted, has been given a special bill for child welfare. The explanation says that you transferred these obligations to this year. So users of child and maternal supplements have to wait. The Serbian Renewal Movement seeks to pay priority for the remaining children's and maternal allowances. Example seven - The Ministry of Youth and Sports 5.5 million dinars spent on youth organisations. We don't know what youth organisations are, or why they got 330,000 dinars more than is prescribed by the Budget Law. Participation in the construction of youth and sports centres is higher by a million and 300,000 dinars, as foreseen by the Law. Even so, there was no money for the sports center and the pools in Leskovac again. I'm not surprised, because the Water Fund has also allocated minimal resources to end the water system "Barje" in Leskovac. And the Ministry of Environmental Protection didn't help Leskovac build a sanitary dump either. I know similar problems exist throughout Serbia, in many municipalities, but as Jablani County belongs to the lowest-income districts, with the most unemployed, not to mention further, I believe that the state should help this municipality, with nearly 180 thousand inhabitants and the entire Jablani County. Examples eight and nine - The Commissioner for Refugees and the Red Cross received far less funds than prescribed by the Budget Law. An example of ten is a famous TV tax on electric numbers, which, let me repeat, is popularly referred to in the people as Shessel's TV tax. In total, around 700m dinars were charged last year, and the EPS owes another 300m dinars to RTS for a TV bill. They reiterate that it has received less from the budget from the entire Serbia, than it has received from RTS's subscription to watch this television. The huge RTS funds were spent on salaries, on the program, but they were much more interesting special costs. Tanjug received one percent or 6.85 million dinars, although he already receives large funds from the federal budget. For the activity of JRT or RTJ, as you call it, it is spent, according to the final budget account, 3 to 5%. That's exactly what it says. It's not specified whether it's 3 or 4 or something in between. Some local radio stations also received 1.26 per cent of the collected TV fees, although they are mostly financed from the municipalities' budget. There are also examples that budget funds have not been spent as foreseen by the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 1997 budget, but I think this was enough. I therefore ask the Government to follow in the future the law itself, which is proposed and adopted by the MPs who are entering the government. And, too, I ask these parties to keep their pre-election promises, and one of them was that they would cut the TV fee to an electric number. Thank you. Just one more thing, Mr. President, I'm asking for your apology, because yesterday you attacked me in a very inappropriate way that I wasn't telling the truth when I mentioned the police intervened against the crowded students and citizens outside the National Assembly of Serbia. That anyone who watched the television program could see it, and some of our MPs who weren't in the O.R. saw it. I don't need to prove it. I brought one Journal of the Public Voice, and there's a picture for those who may not have bought this magazine, and there are similar photos in other newspapers, which show how and how the police dispersed the protesters. Since you said yesterday I wasn't telling the truth, and apparently I was telling the truth, I'm looking for Mr. President for your apology. And, please, do not in the future violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because article 105 states that the reminder is given to the People's Parliament, and you are a People's MP like me, Mr. President of the Assembly. It states, that a public warning is given to the MP if he interrupts the speaker in his presentation or throws or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. You threatened my freedom of speech yesterday. You came into my word, you wouldn't let me, and you even slandered me to tell the truth. I think I deserve at least an apology, and next time I'm going to ask for a statement from the Parliament about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u706	You forgot to read that the president has the right to comment on you and to interfere with your speech. But second, please, you said the police beat students. You completely forgot to say they're not students. Please wait... Since you asked me to... Then let me tell you to the end. The students are on vacation on May 15th. So students who study and learn, they're in homes, learning and preparing exams. The Democratic Party organized a rally in front of the Assembly. So you could see there by the pictures that there are 70 and 80-year-old students and, please, ma'am, always be kind, check the information, so when you go out to this pay phone, which is an honorary payphone, you have to tell the truth. You don't have the right to a replica, because...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u707	I think I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u708	... You asked for my apology, and I believe...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u709	You know what, does this mean, Mr. President, that the police have the right to beat up citizens without having the right to beat up students? First, that's what I'm asking you. And secondly, there were students there, and here's the nice thing about all the newspapers that wrote the name and last name of each of those students who got beat up.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u710	Would you be so kind, ma'am, please... Bojana...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u711	But please don't, they're not...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u712	Excuse me, please, we don't have dialogue here.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u713	.... That students are above Serbian citizens, so the police have no right to beat even citizens, no right to beat students, and I ask you to tell the truth in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u714	Please, one more thing, Bojan. If you want to tell the truth, then tell me they stopped and traffic and the police had to intervene, make traffic possible. That's what you missed to say.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u715	The police don't have to intervene in such a rough way.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u716	It's not a rough way at all, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u717	We can be civilized even though we're Balkans. I ask you, change your manners, start treating all citizens of Serbia normally, not just members of your parties.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u718	Here, I suggest you come over to my house for coffee, and I'll make that clear to you. Is anyone else answering for a word? He has the word Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u719	I don't want to talk about the details of all these remarks that were made at the pay phone, just about the essence of things. The budget law is passed by the Serbian Parliament on a proposal from the government. The budget is an instrument of the government's economic policy, which regulates and implements its policy, which it determines. On the basis of the powers vested by the Government in the Public Revenue Act, in particular in Article 48, the government's right to redistribute the appropriations of the approved sums of the budget in order to implement the priorities is foreseen. The government has fully implemented this budget in accordance with legal powers. I think he's detailed, every ministry has given its positions. If the budget, according to what is being made in the Assembly, was prescribed as an enforcement act, I think the Ministry of Finance and the Government would have nothing to do, but at the same time the Assembly should decide on the percentages of the transfer of funds, which are allocated through the budget, to comply with these obligations. In each country, each government has the right to an active budgetary policy and this is the result of that policy. Explanations of costs, purposes and other things are given in general reasons. As far as I know, the board of directors did not have any objections, they supported all of this with regard to the final account of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u720	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 136, 19 against, no one was abstentioned, 7 did not vote, 162 MPs were present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the Predication of the Law in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 1997 budget for the whole. For 135, 24 against, with three abstentions, did not vote -- 0, 162 MPs are present in total. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1997. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COSTS AND METOCHIA FOR 1997. YOU have received a proposal for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which has no objection to the motion for a decision and suggests that it be adopted by the National Assembly. You received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the motion for a decision. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft decision on the final account of Kosovo's Autonomous Region and Metohija's 1997 budget. For 131 against 17 abstentions, 9 did not vote 6, a total of 163 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision on the final budget of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija for 1997. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of Law on Terms of Transport of Slaves, VRŠENJE SERVICES IN ROBE AND INSPECTION CONTROL You have received a bill submitted by MPs Veroljub Stevanović, Milija Sekulić, Dr Gvozden Rosic, Tomisla Nikolic and Nebojsa Leković. You have received notice from MP Mr Slobodan Tomovic, that, as one of the proposings, you are giving up this bill. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this bill. The government is of the opinion that the bill should not be accepted. You have also received a report from the Legislative Committee, which believes that the bill can also be adopted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism, which proposes to the National Assembly not to accept the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word National MP Veroljub Stevanović, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u721	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the law, I would, with all the respect I have for you personally and for the function you're doing, remind you that you denied me yesterday for a reply to the replica, but I hope that was because we were all tired and I hope it won't be like that in the future. Because yesterday, two MPs from Kragujevac were at my expense, and members of the government, they said a series of lies and nonsense, and I hope that today or some other time I will have a chance to answer them. Secondly, I made a promise yesterday, and everything I promise to do, against those two, which I mentioned, I brought that diploma, which I was talking about, which was signed directly by Mr. Bill Clinton... (unfortunate part of the MPs) Yeah, that's weird for some, would you please tell this SRS party to stop, because if we're the SPEO, then they're the S.R.S.S.S.S. So, he personally signed that diploma, the original pen, you can see that, Mr. Budimirovic, Mr. President, who is not untouchable as some. This is in English, but I'll ask it to be done in Serbian. So, someone might conclude in some fine relationship with Mr. Bill Clinton...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u722	Mr. Stevanović, you're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u723	Oh, my God, I am. But let me get to the law. The substance of the change is the change in Article 1 or Appendix, which reads: "The transport of goods under Article 1 of this Article may also be carried out by natural persons who are registered in the relevant register of local self-government authorities. "What do you want with this? Simply all the MPs of all the Kragujevac parties have tabled a proposal to amend and supplement this law. Mr. Tomovic withdrew his proposal, which will probably explain to the gentlemen in Kragujevac, when he comes to Kragujevac, if he is allowed to appear before that gentleman at all. So, what we wanted with this proposal, and also signed by Serbian Radical Serb MPs, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Socialist Party of Serbia and New Democracy. With this, we also wanted the individuals, who would be enrolled regularly in the register of local self-government authorities, to have the right, not just entrepreneurs, to sell goods on gigs. What does that mean exactly? First of all, we would legalize this work, we would have a fee on both the job and the traffic, and no contributions would be paid for pension and disability insurance, which is a very important thing, especially for Kragujevac. Because this tax, the contribution to pension insurance, is the same at the level of the entire Republic. And that can't be the same in one Kragujevac, that figure of 700-800 dinars, like in Novi Sad, I mean the level of income and the total standard. This is why we think this should be done and that this is a way to sort out the problems in Kragujevac, because a lot of problems in Kragujevac are being solved in that colorful market. What local self-government has done for this activity is that it has organized a colorful market, so one place where over a thousand gigs are located. I hope I don't have to tell you the situation of Kragujevac, the situation we found him in. Nearly 20,000 people are on the bureau and about 30,000 on average on paid leave. That's 50,000 people who don't practically work. Of course, we need to find a way to make it legal and do it. I have to say, ever since this law was applied, and since people have been registered as entrepreneurs, with the ability to sell goods on gigs, no one's paid a dinar since. In this way, we would pay weights and pay taxes on labour and on transport. So we'd all benefit. And, of course, it would avoid paying contributions to pension and disability insurance, which is, therefore, very significant, because these people are already working somewhere, they are on paid leave, they have minimum salaries and thus support their families. So, I don't have to tell you, I hope you realize what kind of situation big cities are in, especially Kragujevac, which is a big industrial city, which this year has been celebrating 180 years since he became capital, but a city that is practically on the street, whose population is practically on the street. I must also tell you that we have found, in addition to the situation in the economy as it is, and it's very much about what I'm talking about, when it comes to the law, and the state of public utility and the funds were like that. They were all lost for years. And that, with great losses. We managed to stabilize them all in 1997, all jobs are positive, and the funds are positive, and we did, unfortunately, some, of course, incomparably more than 1997, than in the previous five years. So that's what's the fact, like the fact that the city is incomparably nicer, incomparably cleaner, but all of that, of course, bothers someone so they do what they do. What we're aiming at right now is that these people, that we legalize this activity and allow them to normally work on these gigs. This is where Kragujevac practically lives. Maybe it bothers someone, maybe someone doesn't think it's right. That's what I think. It's something, I guess, temporary, that's something that's going to change, and I hope it's going to be, I guess, with some new power. But what hurts me a lot as a man, and what bothers me, is that we've promised these people all to one, in our halls in front of TV cameras, that we're going to sign that amendment proposal, that we're going to stand by that amendment proposal of the law, that we're even going to explain to our MP groups what it's all about. But here's one of the MPs who took a little breath of Belgrade air, just doesn't want to take part in it. I understand that someone is in government, I understand that the government's arguments are stronger than his, but I don't understand that he's out of it. But I also understand that he accepts those arguments as arguments and that he remains with what he started, with the people he gave the word to. So, people, you heard on my account yesterday, that I'm someone who's uplifting some fire, whether because I'm staying with something that's important, very important to life, that I'm obliged as president of the City Assembly to wait for all the protesters, whether they're criticizing a new government or to find themselves in front of the City Assembly on some other basis, it's my duty, it's my duty. You know, I'll always stay who I am, and it can bother you as much as you want. Kragujevac is more beautiful, Kragujevac is purer, Kragujevac has a life that you took away from him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u724	Is one of the MPs answering for a word? He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u725	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, are two reasons for my report. First of all, let me explain from this pay phone the reasons for giving up. There's another reason, an educational reason. When it comes to the first reason, I have not given up the idea of helping people overcome the problems that have arisen, nor in seeking a mutually acceptable solution. It will be acceptable solutions for these people, which will be acceptable to the Republic, as part of the positive legal rules. Therefore, my giving up should not be regarded as a lack of desire to endure in solving this problem or by giving up on it. My giving up, first of all, is meant to indicate that the direction we acted, the direction we acted, was not good. That's where education starts, actually. The previous speaker should know that there are vector sizes besides the scales. This problem we're talking about is vector size, because it has both direction and intensity and direction. The direction, therefore, was wrong, as the lawyers might say, we attacked Article 9. The law, and we were supposed to attack something else, which applies to fiscal obligations and tax breaks. That, at the same time, is said in the government's opinion. In the government's opinion, two things have been said. First, it is possible to influence this problem by changing fiscal burdens. Secondly, it is possible for smaller public utility companies, which prescribe fees for the use of these gigs, and in Kragujevac it is known who appoints the director of a public enterprise and whose jurisdiction it is, so that it could be intervened. Of course, we did not choose that way to disburse through the leases, but we decided to do it in another direction and to continue to attack the applicants of this proposal for inconsistency. So, let's be clear, because of the Kragujean public. I, of course, am allowed to come to Kragujevac, because from him I didn't leave, I'm more there than here. Let me get this straight. So it wasn't a good way to solve this problem. The government noticed that, she pointed out, I accepted it, as, among other things, as a member of the government, I have the opportunity to plead directly at the sessions. So, if I've accepted one thing like that, it's perfectly logical that I have to carry out it all the time. Of course, we cannot choose what fate will determine. Someone's fate is given to be reincarnation of Nero in that area of pyromania. My destiny has assigned me to be the reincarnation of Sisife in these attempts at education. It was a lot easier for him because he had to push that rock up the mountain, and it's a lot harder for me. I promise I won't abuse your time anymore, and as far as the lesson is concerned, we'll do it at home in the future, not to embarrass ourselves in front of the public, and can do it in front of the television of the gentleman and the audience of the Kragujeva audience, because on that television, too, only someone can show up when they get the proper permission. I thank you, and I really promise to give these lessons to a far greater public in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u726	There's a word from MP Veroljub Stevanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u727	Thank you, Mr. Tomovic or Mr. Secretary. It's really ugly for us countrymen to talk like this. I tried, believe me, and until yesterday, I was able to make it happen with Tom, until he went too far in his address for no reason, that this is the way we deal with each other. But with Mr. Tomovic, that's not the case. It's one of the SPS representatives, a man who's aggressive, and in every way possible, he's trying something that's impossible, which, because of this aggression, he's lost the election and he's going to lose more and more every second. He was formed immediately after the establishment of our authority in Kragujevac, a list of "Lid" was formed, which only writes all the lies. Since I'm a Kragujevacan, born here, my ratings are growing more and more, because these untruths are really amazing. Let's say, after the day of the city on May 6, when several hundred thousand people were watching, and several tens of thousands of people were on the street to celebrate their day of the city, when a magnificent city lived, it was written about me very uglyly. They even went this far, so they went through the bones of my ancestors, and they said, let's say, there were both the Mother and Gruber and many very important guests for the City and for this country. Significant people, it's said, Verko goes the ways of his ancestors. Because the text says that my uncle, Zivorad Milic, was shot at the age of 21, and no one knows where, as well as several thousand people in Kragujevac after the war, allegedly a Chetnik, allegedly killed someone. I am now following that path, and he forgot Mr. Tomovic and his men to write, that his younger brother, and my younger uncle, killed in 1941, on October 19th, and shot by the same Germans at the age of 14, that their father, and my grandfather, was interned in Germany as a hostage and had been there for several years. So they do all that and they forget all that, you see what they do. Irregularity. )It may not be a topic to you, my lords, but this is very important, this Kragujevac is looking and not allowed Slobodan Tomović to go out to the workers of the flag, or to the workers of the "Second", or to the workers of the market after this, because it seems to be forever here and that is the essence of things. Education, I might not think it should be education.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u728	Please, the time of the replica is up.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u729	The time of the replica is running out, but education, mentioned by my colleague Tomovic, I suggest....
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u730	That's 45 minutes minimum.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u731	It's here in front of all of us that there's a meter to measure how much alcohol there is in our blood, then some of us wouldn't be able to get into the O.R., especially Mr. Tink or Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u732	Please respond to the replica, MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u733	Very short, really. First, the SPS in Kragujevac did not lose the election and can be seen from all data. Secondly, the SPS has joined more than 2,000 new members in Kragujevac over the past year, and I don't know how many other parties have succeeded. Thirdly, I absolutely dare, regardless of the threats, and this is a recognizable scenario, let's gather around to march around the city, and we'll march in Belgrade and so on, I'm not afraid of these threats. I'm allowed to go out in front of everyone, and especially in front of the citizens, and of course no threats from this pay phone can scare me. All of this beyond what's been said, I think it's so ugly that it doesn't deserve my answer.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u734	There's a word from MP Milija Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u735	Dear MPs, Mr. President, since I am behind this speaker for the first time, you can see how I was sent to her, I wish, the president introduced me, to say that I am from the forest village of Cumic, halfway between the Karadjorjeva Topola and the capital city of Miloš, Kragujevac. Equally proud of the history of both cities, I want to explain on the Kragujevac case why we all Kragujevac MPs have launched an initiative to resolve this issue legally, legally and legally and to settle it in the best possible way. The fact that my colleague Tomovic gave up, that's his personal right. Where is Kragujevac today, gentlemen, and that's a question that weighs on us, too, coming from this city. By personal incomes and movements in custody, in the last place in this country, surely. This happened to Milosevic's capital first of all that was behind us at some time, the personnel who came from Kragujevac, first of all in the republican government and the federal government, did not take all kinds of care about what was happening to them in the city, what was happening to them, and the people, most often leaving the city when the traffic sign of Kragujevac passed, forgot that they were being delegated to represent them. The latest ministers in this government, which the mayor was talking about, show that.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u736	Mr. Seculic, I beg you on the bill. We're not discussing Kragujevac, we're discussing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u737	Okay, here's to make a point. The motive that led us to settle this law is, above all, the event that is happening in our city, and probably similar in other cities. Please, I have to start with Kragujevac again, to say that there was a raid in it and what happened in 1941, and we thought that time had passed, but unfortunately lately there's been a raid. What do these raids look like?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u738	Mr. Sekulić, I must remind you, there is a draft law on amending and supplementing the Law on conditions for the operation of the transport of goods, the provision of services in the transport of goods - inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u739	Thank you, Mr. President. The fleas, i.e. colorful markets, are often surrounded by the cordon of militias and the financial police. Then comes what is very ugly, taking away goods and all that follows goods. I don't think it resembles Kragujevac or other cities, and that's where our position and our request was to overcome that condition that was inappropriate to one regulated law, whose proposal we submitted. Mr. Mayor has already said a lot of things from my speech, gentlemen 50,000 people in Kragujevac are out of work. You know what, these people have lost their jobs above all by the policy that's been led in this country in recent years. They're made by necessity, there's mostly honest people, and I often see my colleagues sitting on fleas...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u740	Please, Mr. Seculic, be kind, just about the law, don't spread the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u741	I'm just explaining why we started the law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u742	Okay. You said about motive, so much I let you do, give around the law if you have, and if you don't, let's bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u743	Since you won't allow me to present my exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u744	No, I'm just warning you to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u745	I am pleased at least by the fact that Mr. Tomovic said, and he is also a current minister, that this law will pass, and it will probably not pass today.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u746	You don't know that until the MPs decide.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u747	That they're going to launch some other initiative to solve this problem. Mr. Tomovic, here from this pay phone, the Kragujevci are looking at you, because this initiative obviously, and you signed it, was wrong in your opinion, let's hope that in another initiative, but very soon there will be no more raids to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u748	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? There's a word from the People's Parliament, you have to introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u749	Gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I am the People's MP from the Arangelovac, Đuric Milutin. I want to say something in front of the Trade Committee, because I am the Vice-President of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, who has discussed the draft law tabled by a group of MPs from Kragujevac. In the Committee, representatives of all parliamentary parties sit and the answer was unanimous that this bill should not be accepted. Why shouldn't I? Surely, in this bill, the most significant element is social, but also in the existing law that is in force there is an exceptional social component, which is that natural persons can deal with the traffic of goods in the open space, i.e. on the gigs under very liberal conditions. So, all it takes is for a natural person to register the shop, but an operation that will enable the operation and operation of trade in such a single space, where neither business space nor proper conditions are needed. The second element, which is also liberal, that the registration of these actions does not require the employment of two workers. In this way, if we were to accept the proposal, we would bring in all those entrepreneurs who have registered operations in a more difficult position than individuals, who would do the same work. If we know that after the law was passed, more than 15,000 shops in Serbia have already been registered, it means that the law is liberal enough and that it is accepted. What can be helped, especially to those whose business or traffic of goods is one additional source of income, and perhaps survival. First, the authorities of local self-government can do a lot of good by renting space, meaning, by lowering both space and weight, and also by part of the rules that tax fiscal responsibilities, but this is something that does not apply to this law, but rather something that is in the domain and the resolution of other ministries. Surely if we want to, and we want to, and we're all in favour of curbing the gray economy and preventing smuggling and everything that's pretty negative, we couldn't accept such a proposal at a time like this. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u750	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u751	The government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered an opinion on the draft law giving the main reasons why it proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the bill. Although intervention seems harmless, it comes down to only one sentence that should allow natural persons to deal with the traffic of goods in so-called quantum markets, commodity markets, with prior enrolment in a new register, a register run by a local self-government unit. At a small door, they would practically undo everything that has been achieved by this law. We should remember that by intervention from 97, a lot of illegal flow of goods in the open space has been returned to some system. People have been given the opportunity to register as entrepreneurs, as merchants, to get their numbers, to get their weights, to meet minimum requirements, and to be in some system that can be monitored and to be in a system that will prevent any speculative phenomena. This amendment of this law has one and a formal legal indetermination, which would be the register, which would be run by the local self-government unit. All economic operators shall be registered with the competent economic court. If these are physical persons, which are involved in obtaining self-activities, they are entered in the relevant register, which is only given as a trusted job to local self-government, a register of entrepreneurs, and this way introduces practically some third register, a completely unnecessary register, which can create even greater confusion. I must point out that there is a rule on minimum - technical conditions that must be met in order to carry out the traffic of goods on so-called open surfaces, green markets, quantum markets, commodity markets, and that works. It's where you work and there's traffic. The idea led by a group of MPs to make changes to this law is certainly commendable, however, the direction is absolutely wrong. He also has the Ministry of Finance's view that all these people who deal in traffic in quantum markets are being taxed on a flat-rate basis. About half an hour ago, we passed a change of the Tax Act and the next point is that way, to reduce and contribute, so that all these burdens will be 98 percent, not 124 percent. This is the biggest contribution to curbing the grey economy, applying for all employees, paying for all employees contributions and taxes, going to people's jobs. The idea of MPs was precisely in this direction directed, not due to some radical change of the Transport of Goods and Services Act. That is why I propose to Members not to accept this draft law on amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u752	You heard the minister of trade, Mr. Krasic. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u753	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this time we're really going to talk about the law, because it looks like we understand each other. The minister from the Serbian Radical Party expressed his opinion and the government's opinion on all this. But I'm asking you all to understand that Kragujevac is a social bomb, but it really is, and it would be good to understand it that way, and we're all trying not to blow that bomb up. You now have a situation that a lot of people, 50,000 of them, on the street solves their existence. Believe me, that's the way it is. So the way to overcome it, at least somewhat, is this proposal. We're very aware of what this means. Try talking to the Public Revenue Administration, the Republic, of course, yours, in Kragujevac and anywhere, it is true that a certain number of people are registered this way, as Mr. Minister says, but it is true that they did not know what that means. You now have a situation where, say, 300 dinars of weight, 300 dinars of taxes, 800 dinars contribute to pension and disability insurance, so no one can pay to sell goods at the lowest price of the poorest population in one city. That was the reason. That's why we're asking you to think about this, because it's really an alarming situation. That's one thing. Secondly, it's not true that these don't legalize certain things. This is how things are legalized, my lords. It's not true that there's a register out there that's unknown. Until a year and a few days ago, that register was run by the people we're talking about. Minister, ask yours from the Republic Public Revenue Administration. So I'm really asking you to understand that this is a way to legalize things to make it easier for these people, that we as the Republic benefit from it, that the city as much as - every, not just a Kragujevac, lives this way, because it's a reality. So I ask you all to understand that the reasons really mattered. Nothing else is a reason. It's going to be very hard to explain to people in a colorful market who can't pay for that, because they're already paying them, in the flag, somewhere else, where they're on paid leave. It will be difficult to explain when the raids occur, when the goods are taken away, there will be tension in the city not only with them, but also with the poorest who buy the goods here. I think we need to think right for so long, so we can agree on it and we have to do it, because it's good for the Republic, too. It's not true that this isn't being solved and there's a legal void. You are referring to the previous law that we have passed on to Article 9. He doesn't regulate this area, please. Find a way, we don't mind regulating it. Let's not touch these people for a while. Let's let them pay taxes, whether they're flat-rate or book-leading, but let's make it easy for them, not to impose any new charges they can't pay. So that was the reason and I'm asking you to think that way. There was no other reason, because eventually MPs of all parties supported this.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u754	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. It voted 37, against 116, one abstention, did not vote 6, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill in principle. Since the draft law is not accepted in principle, there is no further discussion. We continue work at 2.30 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, I suggest we continue our work. Please place your cards in the MPs' units to check the quorum. We don't have a quorum yet. To remind you of the obligation to set up the cards, the monitor shows that you have not all set up the cards. To remind you of the obligation of the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people is required to register. That makes it a card. Don't remind me after me that I don't respect the Rules of Procedure when you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, here's the whole group upstairs, only six MPs... Be kind, Mr. Mikovic, behind you, the cards are not set. You can see that. (Mikovic from the post: I was told here to deceive the public, in this assembly. That's not what I told you. There's no point in working tomorrow. Respect the Rules of Procedure. I don't care. Please, I'm just saying, respect the Rules of Procedure. We can check it out now (the commentary from the O.R. hasn't been heard). It doesn't make sense for the MPs to check it out. You are, Mr. Buddha, it's obvious that you are, but your colleagues are not. I'm taking a five-minute break, so we'll check the quorum again.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u757	I singled out my opinion because I felt that the incomplete information given in the light of the proposal for this law was incomplete. And for two reasons. First, what is said here is that at the same time this will go to the decision of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund under its jurisdiction, which will change the rate from 12.8 or 12.3 to 14.1. That's one thing, so I'd like to ask that information that we couldn't get at the board's session. Secondly, how is it so far ensured that the Republic Pension Insurance Fund will make such a decision? Was that already on the agenda or wasn't it? And has the government been informed, when we have not already been informed, of whether the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund used its powers under the law to control who pays, and who doesn't pay contributions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and did they in any case take those measures that they asked the Assembly to give them? And she gave them that amendment of the law, where they had the right to come up with direct solutions, which would be decided by the Republic Administration of Public Revenue in the second degree. Finally, we need to raise the health insurance rate here, aware of the fact that health insurance is in too difficult a situation. That's what doctors tell us, that's what people who treat themselves tell us, and it's objectively the situation. But did the Health Insurance Fund contribute to all of this, above all by the actions of its former director, who is currently deprived of liberty and whether such phenomena were still registered?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u758	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr. Zivadin Jotic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u759	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I've been presented by the president, just yet to say that I am an MP for the SPO and that I come from the Fireman. Dear colleagues, there was a time when personal income could not be paid until payments were made. That was the right thing to do, and that's how it's supposed to be today. Backwards for several years, companies, which operate on the brink of loss or are at risk of bankruptcy, have not contributed. However, they pay something, how much money they have, it's money that they pay under the form of a warm meal and some advances. Since there is no contribution to health insurance and health fund and not being paid for a pension fund, then it happens, for example, and it may happen to some of them from this assembly, that when they retire, and they've worked 35 years, they'll see that they haven't paid any funds for the fund and that they'll have so many pensions reduced. In health care sometimes, I know it as a health care worker, respected the principle that those non-payment collectives, it's against the law. In addition to their protocol, the sisters always had collective names, which was the beginning of the '90s, which did not pay the contribution. We didn't do medical security checks, we didn't prescribe medications... (Tomisla Nikolic: You didn't show them help?- I'm sorry. Wait, I'm going to say this now, because we got the same thing from the pharmacy organizations that the company in question didn't pay off, unless God forbid, Mr. Minister, if it's urgent and urgent medical intervention, then humanity speaks. It happened until last year and before last year that some large companies, such as Serbia's Elektroprivreda at the time of major remonts, when they cry for a dinar, don't pay for a month or two days. However, I have learned from the president of our parliamentary group that under the law they have the right not to pay for a month, but they are obliged after that month to pay that and for the next month. This has not been done very often, and my current minister, Mrs Milicevic, has witnessed that, if not paid, these funds had to be beaten up for electricity consumption, which we could not pay for in the homes of health and medical centres. So it wasn't worth it after all. How we, health workers, live directly and work out of this contribution and supply ourselves with basics and consumables, then our activity as such is threatened, and surely our patients are threatened, because there is no need for medical attention. Wider than that, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund has been compromised. That's why it should be a little bit more orderly about paying into funds, because I understand the economic moment, that it doesn't work out of business or business. But then there must be a solution. Let it be some transformations, whether it be property, mixed, state. We have come here to the Assembly to find these solutions and to help both our funds and our people. Don't let it happen that now we're making some numbers here, whether it's from 12.8 to 14.1, whether it's for health insurance from 8.1 to 8.6. It's an increase. If they couldn't pay what was less, they'd have a very hard time paying what was bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u760	Thank you. There's a word from MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u761	We talked about the Social Security Contribution Act under point 5, where they didn't have a place, and, finally, we came to this bill now, so it's time to talk about it the way it was proposed. The Finance Committee at the session itself received this material, and the conclusion was that the threat of the lowest earnings needed to be done and changed in rates. However, this has not been done, so we will now observe the law as it has been given for adoption. The bill says: "This law proposes to increase the contribution rate for health insurance from 8.1%) to 8.6% and 0.6 percentage points, respectively. Under a) At the same time, we propose to increase the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance from 12.8% to 14.1%) and 1.3, respectively." The contribution to unemployment does not increase, remains the same. The total increase in these two contributions is 1.8%. In the category of making personal income, except for the personal income tax, they enter and contribute to pension and disability insurance, ensuring unemployment, and in the size of twice. This means that contributions to pension and disability insurance totalled by 3.6%. This will most reflect guaranteed earnings that do not have a tax. They only contain contributions. So, by adopting a law like this, we're going to increase our guaranteed earnings by 3.6%. Profits that so far have been taxed with a 15% tax, at a reduction in taxes from 15% to 14%, we will increase them by 2.6%. So, social and business employers will have to make 3.6% higher for the lowest profits, and for profits up to 800 dinars, they'll have to make 2.6% more. What it looks like in a practical case, I'll read it to you. According to the old reckoning and by the law applicable to this moment, 126 dinars and 95 dinars were to be allocated to the guaranteed profits of 200 dinars. After the adoption of this law, if adopted, it will take 139 dinars and 35 dinars to be singled out. For the category of personal income of 300 dinars net, 229 dinars and 16 pairs were to be singled out, and now 247 dinars and 0.3 pairs should be singled out. The benefits of this law begin to feel at the profits of thousands of dinars and over, not because of contributions, but because of a reduction in the income tax of citizens. The conclusion that can be drawn from a bill like this is that the profit from the level guaranteed, to the level of average, will be higher. Their payment obligations are higher. And profit from a thousand dinars and upwards will be made easier by the law on income tax cuts. Contribution, gentlemen, is increasing and when contributions are applied together with the tax, we have increased the lowest category of personal income by 3.6%. I have to say from this pay phone that my fellow citizens from Negotina, by deciding the Assembly of the Municipality will have to pay 1% more, because the Assembly of the Municipality has increased the municipal contribution from 4% to 5%. The Serbian Renewal Movement will not support this increase in health insurance contributions. I sincerely hope that the government will withdraw or find some solution that will protect the lowest earnings, because you all know that in Serbia there are a large number of people who are just receiving such profits.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u762	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u763	In the morning work, we made arguments and those other facts that are now being ignored when making these remarks that have been made. We'd have to keep everything in mind. First of all, I think it is best that we answer the last questions specifically - whether the pension and disability insurance fund in whose jurisdiction the decision-making of the rate was considered and adopted an act establishing a new pension-related obligation. Pension Insurance Fund - The Management Board has made a decision. So he made a decision to the Pension Insurance Fund. Today at the government's session, to keep the package whole, it was brought in at the same time. Consideration of that decision and consent is foreseen. This will provide the policy we talked about, which is a policy of disbursement of wages. Secondly, whether the Fund implemented under the law established the right to exercise the control of the collection of revenue. The Fund carried out that control, came to its findings and took measures according to the law and notified the government of it. The third, and key issue is an increase in the contribution rate. I don't know if we understand each other or if we're not going to understand each other on purpose. Do we, by increasing the rate of contribution to health, which we are talking about, and by making the proposed correction of the contribution rate, further increase the lowest earnings. I've said it on several occasions. The decision initiated by the Pension Insurance Fund also provided for selectivity in the calculation for the lowest categories of wages, which would result in an application of the rate without those corrections, eliminates or absolutely no increase in the allocation for those minimum salaries. That's what the lowest wages, quoted from 200 to 800 dinars, count for. Therefore, by this act of ours, by making this decision, we will not charge a single taxpayer, not a single salary in the Republic of Serbia additionally, nor will it have any greater obligations. The only question is how much pay, given the suspension of the wrong taxation system, will be disbursed. What's important about small wages to know is that the level of total burden is extremely low, on the salary mentioned here, for example, of 200 dinars, it's all 62 dinars of total tax liabilities and contributions. Since she's not taxing herself, there's practically no tax. It's only a contribution, but by space we need to know that employees who receive an extremely low salary, on the basis of this contribution, gain the right to health care and pension insurance. This is an absolute measure of things that maintains the system within logic, the level of solidarity within the framework of the common policy is secured, as the pension funds, which these categories of workers have, to remind you, is the lowest pension in Serbia 400 dinars. Thus, solidarity is provided on higher salaries, to serve such obligations. What is key to deciding the MPs under this bill is whether this law increases obligations when they pay off their earnings. Our position, not only is the position, but also the decision, which will be contained after the assembly session in the cabinet's session on granting consent at the rate of contribution to pension insurance, that no salary in Serbia will have an additional increase. That argument doesn't stand. I think that's the essence of these dilemmas and objections.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u764	Thank you, is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Social Security Contributions Act, in principle. For 109 against 26 abstentions, not two voted, a total of 140 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the search of the Bill’s proposal in particular. I ask the MPs to set up their cards to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Social Insurance Competences Act, in general. It voted 112, against 19, with three abstentions, not four, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Preglade Law amending the Law on Social Security Contributions. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an act to which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes to the Federal Assembly to arrange a particular question relating to the reconciliation of the Republic of Serbia's commitment to the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the currency savings of the citizens you have received a proposal for an act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which propose to the National Assembly to adopt the draft act. At a session of the Legislative Committee, MP Milan Mikovic issued an opinion. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ( b) Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u765	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is where the government suggests that, in accordance with Article 79. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Assembly has decided to propose to the Federal Assembly to determine certain issues relating to the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens. This cannot be done under the provisions of Article 79. That's the first thing. I think that such a solution as is proposed here, nor is it in line with constitutional provisions, nor is it in line with the savings interests, nor is it in line with the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which the initiative said should pay 48.15% of its funds. Maybe this would be under suspicion and maybe someone would try to interpret that here in this situation, if we hadn't adopted it, it would be against foreign currency savings. I'll tell you, we've all got all the MP groups and we've got a memo from the Association of Foreign Savings of Serbia asking us not to agree on this. If we didn't agree because this provision is and this decision would be contrary to the provision in Article 67. Serbia's constitution, which undoubtedly stands, is the same thing as Article 75. The Constitution of Yugoslavia. And finally, in the draft act, which is being prepared in the Federal Assembly, there are also such solutions as are required to put aside the law of the outside force to bring legal judgments on citizens' claims about the collection of foreign currency savings. If we're going to make laws that we're going to change or abolish legal decisions, then we've violated the constitution of both of them about the division of power in this country. We cannot and must not make such a decision and I propose that this proposal be rejected and that the parliaments of both governments and Yugoslavia should be asked to resolve this issue in a manner that will be in line with the constitutions and will respect the interests of foreign-saving citizens, especially given that this issue is being asked here to be resolved and resolved over the next 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u766	I thank you, he has the word National MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u767	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in charge of reading to you the position of foreign savings, the letter that has come to us. "Dear MPs, we have learned that the Committee on Finance of the Serbian Parliament has made a proposal to the Assembly to support the draft law on the regulation of obligations based on the foreign savings of citizens and the powers of the Yugoslav Parliament to pass the law. We consider it necessary to point out once again the following very important facts regarding the preliminary draft law: 1) The proposal provides for the payment of foreign savings over the next 12 years. That provision is in direct contrast with the provisions of Article 67. The constitution of Serbia, which says very clearly the following -- the law can limit the availability of some of the natural persons' funds, and foreign savings is still a private part of citizens' assets, during wartime or elemental disasters, while such a situation lasts. He's also a member of 75. The Constitution of the SRJ - The Bill of Law blatantly violates the provisions of the Law on Liabilities and the Foreign Exchange Act. The bill envisions the placing off the force of all court rulings so far, according to citizens' claims regarding the payment of foreign currency savings from banks. 4) If our allegations were correct under points 1 and 3, the following documents say: letter from the Administrative Board of the Law Chamber of Serbia No. 34-10/98 of 29.04.1998. With the attitudes proposed by this law, it is given in the proposal, and we have already heard the comment. "The position of the Legislative Secretariat reads: "I cannot put this law beyond the power of judgment, which is passed under the provisions of other laws. "In the end, I will read this to you, the man has signed himself, don't worry, I will read to you: On the basis of these facts and evidence we consider and propose to the Serbian Parliament that they do not give consent to the Yugoslav Parliament to pass the law in question, which harshly violates the basic personal rights of citizens in the area of private property. The Association of Foreign Savings of Serbia is proposing to the Serbian Parliament to return the bill to processing and processing, with active participation of foreign foreign-saving experts. The new bill should contain only sources of real and high-quality dinar and foreign funds to return foreign currency savings to citizens. Without restoring citizens' confidence in foreign savings and banks, there will be no new foreign and dinar savings, without which there will be no long-term sources for crediting the development of economy and infrastructure. If, however, the draft law in question is adopted, we will be forced to protect ourselves from the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia, as basic constitutional provisions are harshly violated, as well as relevant international human rights organisations, if our activities in the country are not successful. For the chairman of the Management Board, Velibor Ignatovic. Just to say, I'm here for the fifth year, second term, a lot of people have insulted me, I've never insulted anyone. If you want, we can do it, but it's not right. This is about that many people after 12 years won't be alive, otherwise they have a hard time living, because they left that exchange savings to have for those dark days, because they still suspected that the black days would come. This is what I want to say in the end. If there were a little more luck and intelligence in our congregation, we would consider actors like this yesterday before we passed the University Act. So, the professor's opinions, the dean's opinions would come to mind, but then you took revenge on yourself, bad students and high school students, took revenge on those who have a lot of schools, and now you'll probably get revenge on the ones you took the exchanges with. We from the SPO certainly didn't take those foreign exchanges from them, but we will continue to represent the interests of the citizens in the best possible way we can. (Tomislav Nikolic: You are not from Zaječar, those from Belgrade took both their hats and their hands. ) I would ask you to go out for a pay phone and get that information out.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u768	Mr. Kostadinovicu, don't have a dialogue from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u769	I would ask you to arrange the assembly while I speak of not being disturbed or insulted.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u770	There's a word from the People's Messenger, Dagan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u771	National MPs, it is of great importance that the government of the Republic of Serbia undertake one of the perhaps most serious procedures, perhaps a historic procedure, which is to try to return the money that was taken away long ago. It's almost seven and a half billion marks. It would be good for the government to engage in this venture with good intentions. I hope that's the way it is. But it is hardly possible to accept this approach. Seven and a half billion marks have gone missing in the last 10 years. Those stamps, it looks like they should bring back our people, either in any way, by tax seizing or by any other way. However, this government that proposes this solution to return seven and a half billion marks over the next 12 years does not come out to inform us, and whoever took seven and a half billion marks, where that big money is. The money, which has disappeared over the past 10 years, could also serve and would be a strong financial basis for economic development, would be a huge savings deposit for taking international loans. It seems that this money disappeared in 93 years, when we experienced second inflation in Serbia-Montenegro in history, already that money disappeared because there was no exchange base for dinars, meanwhile. Yes, and I believe that all MPs are here for the money to be returned to the foreign savings and that it must be returned. But it must be returned and in accordance with the law, and that means that money must be given to the interest that is due to these savings, and at the same time, if the people have to commit to returning this money, which someone has stolen, which someone has robbed from our banks, but not only this money, but also other foreign savings and dinar, pension funds, social funds, incomes from privatization of apartments and so on, the people have the right to know, who has robbed seven and a half billion, whether that money has gone to private accounts, whether it has served personal wealth, whether someone has bought their children Canadian citizenship with this money, whether this money is a funded war and business and trade transactions and speculation. Where's this money? Of course, this isn't just important for the sake of the people's consciousness, for the right of the people to know what kind of government they have. It is good that this government, and in it, sits many who are not responsible for what has happened over the past few years, sits and those who have accused the previous governments of robbing this money, I suppose these members are now the Government, whether it is called People's Unity, willing and eager to justify their election promises that the foreign funds will be returned, whether by selling Dedinj, as promised or otherwise, it does not matter. But we expect this government to clearly inform the people who robbed the savings, if Serbia has to take the obligation to return this looted money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u772	Thank you. Are any of the MPs answering for a word? (No). I ask Minister Borislav Milačić to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u773	It seems that we agree in one of the most important things, which is that the question of old foreign savings must be resolved and it must be resolved in a legitimate way, and in order to be resolved legally, the law must be passed. The law is passed by the Federal Assembly on a proposal from the federal government. This initiative and a proposal for an act on which we are to declare the position of the Republic of Serbia in the area of its constitutional jurisdiction, so that, on the basis of the funds of the Republic of Serbia, obligations on a second level cannot be established except in this assembly. And that's why it's in front of us. We think there's no constitutional, no legal interference, no dilemma. Serbia's assembly is the only one in charge of accepting material obligations based on the basic funds of the Republic of Serbia and is therefore ahead of us. We believe that this is an extremely important issue that creates space for us, creates an environment for the reforms that we are talking about. Without the return of the old foreign savings, we can't resuscitate the banking system. And all the questions that are being asked here are politicizing most of the work and so on, which is less important, I think it will be discussed, because it is entering into the provisions of the bill that is yet to be passed on the basis of the proposal of the federal government and the decision of the Federal Assembly. These initiatives, issues and other things, we will actively participate in the process of adoption. We can delegate through the government on the basis of initiatives that MPs will have, we can address the federal government directly and especially during the period of reviewing the adoption of these acts in the Federal Assembly. But that's not the place right now and all the topics that start on that topic are for me, as far as this professional work is concerned, politicization. I don't think there's really one thing I can say about the parliamentary group of dilemmas, whether there's a need to regulate the issue of old foreign savings. We're just saying this is an emergency procedure. And secondly, the Republic will participate in financing its commitments, because without the resources of the Republic there will be no real basis for serving the commitments for which according to these drafts, which were made in the Federal Government, there would be no real resources. In that part, I propose that MPs accept the proposed text, bring it as such, to speed up the process and create the conditions for the real law in the Federal Assembly to be passed and that we begin to give both concrete and realistic answers in relation to foreign currency savings which we are tasked with.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-05-27-0.u774	Thank you. Since none of the MPs want a word anymore, I conclude a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote a proposal for an act proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to settle certain issues relating to the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens. For 114, against 28, no one abstained, one did not vote, a total of 143 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft act proposing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deal with certain issues relating to the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the foreign savings of citizens. We've exhausted the agenda with this. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you at one of the next sessions.
