ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, this is nice all around these MPs, who are due to go to the federal parliament, but I must note that because of the way they are elected, no voter will be respected, which is elected MPs for this assembly, and that because of the vote on this, rather than the pre-determined agreement, which would be in line with the voter's will, the majorisation, which is contrary to the voter's will in Serbia, will be carried out. Let it go to your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u237	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm closing the search. I would like to inform you that the Commission for the selection of federal MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly is on the basis of Article 9. The law on the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly and the proposal of candidates for federal MPs, submitted by the parliamentary groups, has drawn up a summary list of candidates for the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, which will now be served to you. Since it is according to Article 11. The law requires the election of federal deputies to hold a secret vote, on the ballot, that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure educates a special commission for the printing and sealing of ballots, which should be made by one representative each. I would like to inform you that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as the applicant for federal deputies' proposal, has informed you that it sets out MP Tihomir Arsic as its representative for the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of the ballots. Please report from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary groups, the Serbian Radical Party, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Yugoslav Left and the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians to announce the names of their representatives in the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u238	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the Socialist Party of Serbia proposes that our member in the commission be Life of Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u239	Thank you. Here you go, Serbian Radical Party. There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u240	The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggests that our member in the Commission be MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u241	Thank you. Please the Serbian Renewal Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u242	We suggest Mr. Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u243	Thank you. I'd like a proposal from the Grand Duchy of Hungarians. He has the word of the People's Messenger Joseph Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u244	The Union of Duchy Hungarians proposes Antal Biachi as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u245	Thank you. I'd like the head of the Yugoslav Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u246	The Yugoslav left proposes MP Zoran Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u247	Thank you. Since candidates for federal MPs have appointed their representatives at the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units so that the National Assembly can declare this proposal as a whole. We have a quorum. I'm putting this proposal to a vote in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: For 196, against four, one abstention, did not vote 19, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I remind you, according to Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the President of the Commission for the Printing and sealing of ballots shall be the aged Members of the Commission. The Commission will hold a meeting immediately in the second floor room. I'm taking a 60-minute break. That's how much time it takes to prepare the voting material. [[After break at 11.35.]] We're continuing our work. Before moving to the vote, allow me to remind you of the provisions of the Law on the election of Federal MPs to the United Republic of the Federal Assembly, which relate to the procedure and the determination of the results of the vote and to inform you of how to conduct the secret vote. The ballot printing and printing commission is due to submit the signed minutes and 250 ballots. I ask the President of the Commission to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u249	Mr President, the Commission for Voting under the electoral law, the Rules of Procedure and Decision have prepared 250 ballots, which I will hand over to you, together with the Commission's record of work, for further use. (The President shall receive the ballots and the minutes of the Commission. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u250	The election of federal MPs is held by a secret vote on the ballot. Each MP is given one ballot each. This is Article 12. The vote is done by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. Any MP can only vote for as many candidates as the MPs are elected to the Greater Republic. An unfulfilled ballot is considered to be a blank ballot, a ballot so filled that it cannot be determined with certainty who was voted by the MP and the ballot on which more candidates were circled than the number to be elected. The ballot box will be attended by a member of parliament appointed at a session of the National Assembly, which will oversee the introduction of ballots into the box. A folded ballot MP personally inserts into the ballot box. When the vote is completed, the vote results are determined by the Commission for the selection of federal MPs, based on the ballots submitted. The Commission's election rapporteur shall report on how many MPs have voted in total, how many candidates have received votes and how many invalid ballots there are. If the number of ballots is found to be higher than the number handed to MPs, the vote shall be repeated. A candidate who received the largest number of votes within the number of elected MPs has been elected as MPs to the Greater Republic. This is Article 16(1). The law. With the number of candidates selected not being less than the majority of the Members of Parliament present, in accordance with Article 80(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When two or more candidates receive the same number of votes and all cannot be elected, the vote is repeated against these candidates until the required number of MPs is chosen. The election of MPs to the Greater Republic is announced by the President of the National Assembly. The Members of Parliament shall be appointed by the Commission for the selection of Members of Parliament. The handing over of ballots will be done by calling the MPs. Since Article 13 is paragraph 1. The law stipulates that the ballot box should be attended by a member of parliament appointed at a session of the National Assembly, which oversees the inclusion of ballots in the ballot box, I propose that MP Steve Dragisic oversee the introduction of ballots into the ballot box. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I put this proposal to the vote for MP Steve Dragisic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare that 184, against nine, abstentions, did not vote 19, a total of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Stevo Dragisic, who has been ordered to oversee the introduction of ballots into the ballot box, after the final vote, the ballot box, will be handed over to the Federal MPs' election commission in the Federal Assembly's Greater Republic. Before we begin handing over the ballots, I would like to ask the MPs: Miroslav Vasiljevic, Slobodan Nenadovic and Dr Živorad Djordjevic, members of the Commission for the Election of Federal MPs, to take office next to the president. (Miroslav Vasiljevic, Slobodan Nenadovic and Dr Zivorad Djordjevic, took the post next to the president. ) I ask Parliamentarian Dr Živorad Djordjevic, a member of the Commission, to hold the call of MPs to whom I will immediately hand out ballots.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u251	(reads the names of MPs, and the president hands them ballots) Avramov Mita, Aksentijević Siniša, Aleksić Dr Gradimir, Ameti Ramadan, Andrić Dr Milena, Angelković Zoran, Arsić Joca, Arsić Tihomir, Atanakković Nebojša, Bajović dr Snežana, Baković dr Tatomir, Barac Milun, Bačević Dr Milan, Bečić Igor Igor, Biači Antal, Blažić Dr Milovanović, Božanović Prof. Dr Milan, Božalo Dragan Borovan, Borović Borović Prof., Dr. Budimirović Dobović Dobovrović, Vžilić Draga Draga Draga Draga, Dr. Dragažanović, Vžažanović, Vbljanović, Vbljanović, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbrić, Vbić, Vbrić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbljanić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Zbić, Zbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, V
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u252	I'm taking a 15-minute break for the vote. [[After a break.]] Please take your seats. He'll also vote in a roll call. We'll start by putting the ballots in the box. National MP Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic will call and any one of you who is called will come to the box, insert a leaf into the box and say your name, so that we can keep records.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u254	Vramov Mita, Aksentijević Siniša, Aleksic Dr Gradimir, Ameti Ramadan, Andrić Dr Milena, Andjelković Zoran, Arsić Joca, Arsić Tihomir, Atanakković Nebojša, Bajović Dr Snežana, Baković Dr Tatomir, Budać Milun, Bačević Dr Milan, Beić Antal, Blažić, Dr Milan, Bozalo Dragan, Božiljić Mirovanović, Božović Čedomir, Veljković Vojin, Veljković Vojović Jela, Vjatnović Dušan, Vlatić Branislav, Vlakljavić, Žalj, Žaljić Mirović Žažažanović, Žažažažanović, Veljković Vdočić, Veljković Željić, Veljković Željić Željić Željić, Željić, Želić, Jela, Vjavić, Vjavić, Vrić, Vrić, Vbić, Vrić, Vbić, Vrić, Vrić, Vbić, Vrić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vbić, Vrić, Vbić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrajvić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Vrić, Thank you. Since the vote is over, I'm closing the vote. I would like to ask MP Steve Dragisic, who has been overseeing the introduction of ballots into the ballot box, to hand over the ballot box to the Commission for the election of federal MPs, who will immediately approach the outcome of the vote. Stevo Dragishidj: Is there a record?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-20-0.u255	After. Do you want us to work in front of you? We won't. ) [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to take their seats, to announce the results. Dear People's MPs, the Commission for the selection of federal MPs in the United States, submitted a report on the outcome of the vote for the election of federal MPs to the Federal Assembly, held on 20 February 1998: the Commission found that it had received the signed minutes and 250 ballots in a sealed envelope from the Commission for the printing and sealing of ballots. Then 244 ballots were handed over by the call of the MPs. After that, the vote, which lasted until 13:30 p.m. As the president of the National Assembly concluded the vote, before the ballot box was opened, the Commission counted the unscheduled ballots, which were six, put them in the envelope and sealed them, after which it immediately joined in determining the results of the vote in the hall, in which the vote was made. The Commission found that 244 ballots were handed to MPs, that there were 244 ballots in the ballot box, that there were no unused ballots, that there were eight invalid ballots, that there were 236 valid ballots. Candidates, who were voted on, received the following vote: Angelković Zoran 229, Bozidar 224, Bojić Milovan 229, Vasiljevic Cedomir 228, Vjesic Jela 232, Vučić Aleksandar 226, Vučurović Bozidar 228, Gajević Gorica 232, Dragisić Stevo 226, Živković Vojislav 230, Jović Radoslav 236, Kasas Karolj 227, Kekić Bojan 228, Krkobbić Jovan 229, Miković Milan 236, Mihajlović Dušan 51, Nikolic Tomislav 229, Scei Mihalj 231, Stevanović Veroljub 236, Tabaković Jorgovanka 229 and Printed Vladimir 187. On the basis of Article 19. The law on the election of federal MPs in the United Republic of the Federal Assembly and the results of the vote contained in the Commission's report on the selection of federal MPs, I announce that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Federal MPs in the United States has chosen: Angelkovic Zorana, Santa Milan, Bojić Milovana, Vasiljevic Cedomira, Veselic Jelu, Vučić Aleksandra, Vučurović Bozidara, Gajević Gorica, Dragisić Stevu, Živković Vojislava, Jović Radoslava, Kasas Karolja, Kekić Bojana, Krkobic Jovana, Miković Milan, Nikolic Tomislav, Sečei Mihalja, Stevanovic Verolju, Tabaković and Štmbuk Vladimira. I congratulate them in your name and mine. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the President of the Commission for the election of federal MPs to the newly elected Federal MPs in the United Republic of the Federal Assembly will subsequently issue assurances about the election. This is where our session ends with the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you at the regular session.
