ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u295	Dear People's MPs, today the Serbian Government and the National Assembly should decide to propose to the people a referendum on the most vital state and national issue: Should Kosovo and Metohija be decided by the people themselves, or should foreign intermediaries participate? The position we will take on this will have a far-reaching importance for Serbia-Yugoslavia's fate. That is why we must be responsible and clear in our definition, seeking to show full unity and maturity on this fatal issue. The issue of foreign intervention is the presence of today, and it is associated with growing pressures on Serbia and Yugoslavia to accept it. This includes the most powerful international factors, which seek to impose their will and will by force, regardless of the principles of international relations, regardless of the consequences, not only for our people, for all citizens of our country, but also for peace and stability in the region. Kosovo and Metohija are the internal issue of Serbia and all solutions to this are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Any attempt by international intermediaries to address the internal issues of one state against its will is contrary to the principle of sovereign equality of the states, the basic principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the OSCE and international law in general. No international organisation, no institution has the right, nor is it authorized to take part in resolving these issues, nor should it propose, and especially to impose solutions. The fact that the weight of the cosmetic problem is the reason for the deviation from this important international principle has no basis because all issues in Kosovo and the Metohija are internal character, because there is no conflict there, because the state fully controls the situation and because it has an active and responsible relationship that all issues are resolved by political means and direct dialogue, protecting constitutional order and respecting European standards. The question is who does it bother, as well as why it requires mediation and internationalization. Of so many in the world of existing internal disputes in countries based solely on a national basis, certain international factors seek to single out and internationalise issues in Kosovo and Metohija. Why, for example, would not internationalize the Kurdish, Irish, Corinthians, or the Basque issue, but quite cosmetically. Obviously, it's about double standards and force politics. The aim is neither anyone's rights nor the rights of members of the Albanian minority. The goal is not to solve anything, the objectives are to produce crisis and instability in order to show power in crisis management, spread vasality and justify the presence of a foreign factor in the region. It is not true that the international community, like the Contact Group, advocates, as the name would say, to bring together dialogue participants with different views on problem solving. It is the one that practically seeks to dictate the final results of the dialogue, the results already written in various projects, and which are now developing technology. In this procedure, the role of foreign intervention and mediators is crucial. They say they're supposed to be interested only in dialogue, regardless of its conditions. At the same time, however, their statements speak quite the opposite. The increased status of Kosovo within the SR of Yugoslavia, higher degree of autonomy, significant self-government, special status, etc. is explicitly sought. The script of the middleman's actions has already been seen, first the international body or organisation that sends the mediator, and then through him delivers so-called. proposals to solve problems. If it is not accepted, the demands follow and sanctions follow, along with general anthem. The relationship to requests for foreign intervention is a key issue. It also depends on the results of the dialogue. Mediators are looking for those who daily assist separatists while also voting in statements and resolutions against Serbia and Yugoslavia. They're the same ones who advise separatists to show a little more patience, because it's not the time to secede. They are the same ones who are so worried that there is no dialogue, and the Rugs and his like-mindeds are forbidden to respond to a call from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for dialogue, because they need an alibi for pressures against our country. In terms of relations with the foreign mediator, the essential attitude towards how Serbia's integrity and sovereignty are protected as a state has been contained. It is a matter of relations to the key part of the Kosovo and Metohija extraction mechanism from Serbia. Therefore, in order to remove all dilemmas and possible misunderstandings on the issue, no state body can decide on its own, which is why the plebiscite of all Serbian citizens is necessary, so a referendum is necessary. Some of the foreign projects offered to address Kosovo and Metohija's problems would mean not only the further fragmentation of the Serbian national being and the detachment of the queen of the national most recognizable part of Serbian territory. Kosovo and Metohija are one of the strongest national identifications of the Serb people. That is why all citizens of Serbia, but only Serbian citizens, must be asked about the fate of this national symbol. The Serbian people are faced with the danger of losing their greatest national sanctity. In such fateful matters, one nation, one state, is deprived of a mediator. On the cosmetical issue, as its question should be decided by the entire people concerned. That decision is so difficult and sublime at the same time that it simply cannot be made by anyone else instead of the people. A republican referendum on whether problems in Kosovo and Metohija are needed or not, international mediators are the legal and at the same time the most legitimate way to determine the will of citizens. But the referendum is at the same time an expression that only a whole of the people, not just part of the people who live on Kosovo and Metohija, can make a legitimate decision. This Republic referendum should also be a confirmation of our state sovereignty and our commitment to respect the fundamental principles of the international order. While there were also vassal states, they enjoyed internal autonomy. In the past century, Serbia as a vassal state has brought its constitutions autonomously even when it was under the Turks. He won't even be able to let himself decide today with an international mediator. Dear People's MPs, on yesterday 57 years ago, a masculine attack on our country was carried out by bombing Belgrade, which was a punishment for the freedom of refusal of its citizens to join the three-way pact. Yugoslavia was then occupied to start one of the most heroic people's resistances in World War II aliens and fascists. Dear People's MPs, by voting to call a Republic referendum, about Serbia being able to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija on its own, or whether it needs other people's help, you will confirm this April, this year 1998, our non-exhaustive, proud and free folk spirit. You will thus reject the method of dictatorship, pressure, blackmail and insult of the dignity of the state and the people only because they do not accept blind obedience to world powers. At the same time, you will vote to respect your country's national and state dignity, truth, civil equality and democracy. One by number small people will you do one more, by the free spirit, great. I am deeply convinced that all the problems exist and burden life in Kosovo and Metohija can be resolved by dialogue, open, honest and well-intentioned. I hope that this dialogue will also be successful in the interest of all who live in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u296	Thank you. Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? He has the word Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u297	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Socialist Party of Serbia provides full support and initiatives from President Slobodan Milosevic and a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia to call a referendum in which Serbian citizens will decide whether to accept the participation of foreign representatives in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. It's about vital national and state interest. Our people, above all, appreciate freedom, independence and independence. By investigating these values and principles, we have survived as a people and states in these places, resisting any evil, injustice and intent to endanger our sovereignty and territorial integrity. That's what we're talking about today. Kosovo and Metohija are not about violations of human, civil and minority rights, but about separatism and terrorism. The goal is to secede this Serbian territory from Serbia. The goal is to break Serbia. Internationalisation of problems in Kosovo and Metohija is only a way and a means to achieve this goal. The creators of the new world order are doing everything they can to create an ambience to realize that goal. And, therefore, we resolutely reject attempts to interfere with our country's internal affairs. Kosovo and Metohija are not any part of Serbia. It is only the heart of Serbia, the foundation of our statehood, our national identity and spirituality. Under the protection of human, civil and minority rights and freedoms, in fact by naked force, threat and dictatorship, they want to tear away what is our thirteenth century. It bothers the world's powers that Serbia wants a partner rather than an important relationship. It is surprising that Serbia will not give up its work itself which is its root. They are not satisfied with the Balkans' end so far. The fragmentation of its space into dwarves, unstable and unsustainable states is only part of the wider geostrategic interest of a force that does not want a strong and stable state in the Balkans. They encourage every extremism, secessionism and fundamentalism, the aim of creating an artificial crisis in our region to employ themselves, their military force. They're even accusing us of not cooperating with international organisations and institutions. That's not true. We want co-operation on an equal basis and are ready to assume both rights and obligations in these organisations and institutions. The new world order speaks in the language of power, against international law and the Charter of the United Nations. It's a strategy of the new world order. It is clear to both the Serbian Parliament and our people. Mixing a foreign factor into some country's internal affairs has never done any good. This is confirmed by the devastating role the same international mediators played in breaking the previous Yugoslavia. Those who publicly seek secession are equal to the government, which defends the state by legitimate means, who favour those who reject the dialogue with the government and the National Assembly, those who ask us to give up acts of the Serbian state for the ambitions of separatists, threaten us with sanctions, military intervention, disrupt normal life and economic development. And what a hypocrite! They say: All for the sake of our people, all in the name of democracy and human rights, and in essence, by standing above every legitimate authority, above all principles, by handling the naked dictatorship, blackmail and threat, determine who can do what, and who cannot do what in defense of his own freedom and independence. We're asked to do what no country is asked to do: cooperate on breaking up our own country. Directly supporting separatism and terrorism, they create a dangerous precedent in international relations. The attempt to break Serbia, first, by seeking special status, then through autonomy, and now with the status of the republic within Yugoslavia, is essentially looking for a model to create a new Albanian state on the ground of Serbia, as a prelude to further tearing up our country, and it cannot and will not pass in our people. The people would not support or forgive the leadership that would agree to this. Kosovo and Metohijas the internal issue of Serbia and any attempt to internationalise this issue is a interference in our internal affairs. The major national referendum, which we are deciding today, is the legitimate and democratic defence of Serbia, the determined rejection of threats and pressure and attempts to break Serbia. There is full agreement between the people and the leadership. Freedom, independence, integrity and dignity of Serbia have always been above any partial interest: personal, local or party. The decision concerns all citizens of Serbia, the entire people. That's why the people have to decide. We defend Serbia, its sovereignty, its integrity and the right to decide independently, in accordance with international principles, on our arrangement, life and development. It is a responsible relationship to the past, the present and the future of our people and the state. The will of the people is a condition for problems in Kosovo and Metohija to be resolved on the principles of freedom, independence, truth and justice. The referendum will confirm the determination to seek answers in Kosovo and Metohija through peaceful means, without conditions. Citizens will confirm that, as a state, we are ready and able to find solutions to these issues, without interference on the side, safeguarding Serbia's integrity, respecting all human, civil and minority rights. Serbia is a multiethnic and multiconfessional society. The Serbs, equally, live nearly 30 national minorities. Their rights are guaranteed by the Constitution and by the laws by the highest standards of the international community. And all national minorities use those rights. Only Albanian separatists seek secession, force their countrymen to selectively use guaranteed rights, enforce terror and violence against all who oppose them. Separatists and their mentors should avoid breaking Serbia, creating new republics and pushing Albania's national minority into isolation and conflict. It would be better to advise them to use all the Constitution-guaranteed rights for the sake of their own well-being and well-being of all those living in Kosovo and Metohija. The perspective of Kosovo and Metohija is not in the actions of secession and terrorism, but in the common life, equality, tolerance, trust and understanding, in faster economic and cultural development. Serbia provides that perspective to Kosovo and Metohija. It also speaks of the willingness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly for unconditional, open, public dialogue on all issues of the achievement of human, civil and minority rights in this province. The referendum will strengthen Serbia's political platform to seek solutions to all issues through political means through dialogue, discourage all who advocate secession and show the world that pressures and blackmails, guesses and bargaining around Kosovo and Metohija cannot and will not be. Dear MPs, Serbia has found itself many times in history to defend freedom, territory and statehood. Every time the people decided on it, we survived and continued to develop successfully. We're confident that's the way it's going to be in this referendum. Serbia will say no to all the pressures, blackmails, separatism, terrorism, foreign interference in our internal affairs and attempts to break our country, because it only provides freedom, peace, sovereignty, integrity, dignity and its own future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u298	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian people have felt on their own back for the past few years what it means to be in the way of some great world power. For the past few years, this great world power, the United States, has bombed our people, destroyed us, helped our enemies, and in this way we have realized that they will not stop either in the Serbian Krajina, but that they have decided to completely disintegrate the Serbian state and completely destroy the Serbian people. For all these years, however, they have somehow managed to bring all their actions against the Serb people under some international legal principles, international legal regulations. This time the situation is completely different. This time they face an only internal issue of a sovereign state. Kosovo and Metohija's problem deals with international law standards as an internal issue. That is why they need to now get our consent to get involved in this problem, because only if we voluntarily allow them to be intermediaries in these talks between representatives of the Serbian state and the Albanian national minority will they be able to interfere with our problem, respecting all international legal principles. Otherwise, their hands are simply tied. If we let that happen, then we'd already sign our own capitulation in advance. Because the scenario of international intervention, even if we Serbs, is well-known. First, they send their mediators, who listen to both sides, draw some conclusion, propose to international forums, and then, on the basis of that conclusion, blackmail follows, pressures, bills are made. If we don't respect what we're being ordered to do, then there are sanctions and the whole mechanism is moving, which we already felt on our own skin once. It is therefore important that international intermediaries stay out of the issue, which is exclusively the internal matter of the Republic of Serbia. There is another dilemma, which is irrelevant at first sight, which is whether this issue will be treated as a problem for Serbia or as a problem for the SR of Yugoslavia. That's where we come into an interesting situation. The United States may have been the only Western force, which spoke of SR Yugoslavia as Serbia-Montenegro several months ago. Suddenly they remembered it was SR Yugoslavia. The reason is very simple. If the issue would be treated as the issue of the SR of Yugoslavia, then Kosovo and Metohija, which today, according to our Constitution of the Autonomous Region, could ultimately be one of the federal units, so that the SR Yugoslavia is composed of Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro. And after that, we had another experience from the near past as that former Federation fell apart, SFRY. So, there goes that same scenario again. But if treated as a problem of the Republic of Serbia, then it cannot be expected that the Republic of Serbia would allow itself to be a Federation, composed of Kosovo and the rest of the Republic of Serbia, and then also with Montenegro to form a federation or confederate. That dilemma is generally not harmless. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party insists that the issue be treated exclusively as a question of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, there's no reason to be different. Since the Republic of Serbia has been an internationally recognised state for over 100 years, Kosovo and Metohija have been in the composition of the Republic of Serbia for almost 80 years, so there is no reason for Kosovo and Metohija to be excluded from Serbia's constitutional and legal system and to be treated as a problem of the federal state. There's one more question that hasn't been resolved here. The United States recently said that Kosovo and Metohija are jeopardising the US's national interest. Their national interests are under threat, and we don't know why. And because they now believe that some of their national interests are at risk, they think they can use all of their power, which they have, to protect their national interest. And there is no question as to whether the national interests of Serbia and the Serb people are at stake. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Serbian state, Americans believe their national interests will be protected if Kosovo and Metohija are independent, if they are republics, or if they join Albania. In the conflict of our national interest and US national interest, the Serbian Radical Heart will always stand in the protection of Serbian national interest, however it sounds to you. Here, I see that some are very surprised, perhaps they think that we should give the American national interest in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And another question here is asking an answer. What are the national rights denied to Albanians, which they are not allowed to do, what is not written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which should stand, which could satisfy the minority rights of the Albanian national minority? No one's found out yet, who answered that question. Let's get out of there, see what it takes for the Albanians to do what concession we need to give to the Albanians. That's what we need to talk about. If their only request is to get an independent state, then there's no talking about it. If they have problems in this country, they should address the legal state authorities and try to solve the problem. The only thing we don't want to talk about is independent Kosovo. The Serbian Radical Party formed a preliminary programme for resolving Kosovo and Metohija before the delegation of the Government of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia left. The Serbian Radical Party accepts talks with representatives of the Albanian national minority. And what we would agree to in those conversations is cultural autonomy. We agree that Albanians are independently solving problems in education, health, social security, pension insurance and some other issues that are of direct importance to members of the Albanian national minority. And let them finance it themselves, let their own contributions finance the functioning of these services and organs. But we certainly don't want to talk about some higher degree of autonomy, which they have today, and especially not about the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. There is a good will on our part, the only question is whether such a will exists on the other side. I think that such a will would exist on the other hand, if we didn't have promises from the West, that the problem would be solved just as they maximumistly demand. It is up to us now to endure and show that it is impossible to realize what they are dreaming, but to have to renegotiate, to actually approach this problem and to try in a realistic way to solve all the problems they have with us. While the Serbian Radical Party is here, we will advocate that Kosovo and Metohija remain in the membership of the Republic of Serbia and never question whether Kosovo and Metohija can ever gain independence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u300	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the SPO parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Renewal Movement will do everything possible to defend and defend Kosovo and Metohija, old Serbia, the birthplace of the Serbian state, churches, culture and the national epic. To defend against Albanian extremists, who demand that our province become an independent state or acquire the status of a federal member within the SR of Yugoslavia, which is another name for secession from Serbia. All facts -- today, yesterday and centuries ago -- are superior to Serbia's side. It's in our national and national interest for the world to know these facts. If we are in favour of dialogue with Ibrahim Rugova and his negotiating team, then, because of facts the world does not know, we should insist that as many foreign media as possible, as many foreign diplomats as possible as observers or witnesses attend Serbian-Albanian talks. Rug's afraid of the truth, so he's looking for foreign intermediaries in the conversation. He's looking for a stranger to hold his hand and bring him to a negotiating table with the Serbs. It's, and only that, the role of mediator. Why would it bother us? It does not seek Serbia or the pedal of other people's territory, but only defends its territory, is not asking for Serbia to be an ethnically pure state of Serbs, but is defending itself from the requirement that an ethnically clean Albanian state, i.e. another Albania in the Balkans, be established on its territory. There are no such foreign observers, mediators, representatives, witnesses or reporters who can deny these facts, nor help Rugs to wrongly turn into law, lie in truth or provoke war in defense of peace. Defending itself, Serbia defends peace in the Balkans, and defends the Dayton Agreement. With their dangerous political demands, both source and Albanian terrorism, Albanian extremists are dangerously threatening peace in the Balkans and the Dayton Agreement. Both members of the Contact Group and the European Union and the Council of Security Tears of Peace, the Dayton Agreement and the irreversibility of borders in Europe. Since Albanian extremists are against all of this, we must not run from co-operation with the Contact Group and the European Union in defence of the same goals and values. It is true that there are double standards in the conduct of some great forces. Let us ask ourselves, however, how much our state policy has given rise to such double arches. Let's change our behavior, and see if the world really hates Serbs and Serbia. The relationship towards Republika Srpska, for the sake of the case, has changed significantly after a new government policy. What are we, when it comes to foreign representatives at this point, that we cannot agree to? We cannot accept those foreign representatives who want to impose solutions in the Serbian-Albanian dialogue and who advancely declare Kosovo's problem should be resolved within the borders of the SR of Yugoslavia, not within Serbia's borders. Such representatives of the international community do not accept the SPO either. We believe that this type of foreign representatives was also meant by the president of the SR Yugoslavia, Mr Slobodan Milosevic, when the proposed referendum and the referendum issue. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the answer to the referendum question we know in advance - Kosovo is inseparable from Serbia and no one in the world has the right to question it. Article 2(7) The Charter of the United Nations, whose signatories we are, literally says that no one has the right to interfere with issues that are essentially internal issues of the state. In Article 39, Chapter VII points out, however, that the United Nations Security Council has the authority to interfere anywhere where it finds peace threats, peace violations or aggression. This means that Kosovo and Metohija are in our exclusive jurisdiction as long as there is peace and that it will not be war. That's why the war can't be and we can't cause it or start it. The SPO is for the urgent launch of dialogues with Albanians, but seriously and on our part, responsiblely prepared performances. Rugova formed his negotiating team, chose the most professional people known in the world and now negotiate their joint platform for negotiations. The negotiating team that assembled the Serbian government the other day is not our best team. The team is leaving for Pristina without a single state platform. Radicals, at least until today, were against autonomy in Kosovo, and the Socialists and the JUL for autonomy under the current Serbian Constitution. The SPO believes Kosovo and Metohija are neither property nor government nor any party. We believe that Serbia's President, Mr Milan Milutinovic, should draw up Serbia's best negotiating team after consulting with parliamentary party leaders, and that our negotiating team should adopt a single negotiating platform immediately afterwards. Let us quickly and responsibly carry out all preparations on our part and start talks with political representatives of Kosovo Albanians. We'd better negotiate for two decades than fight for two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the upcoming referendum, the SPO is considered for state and national reasons, without advocating behind the procedure, that the citizens of Serbia should at the same time declare the same cost of both the flag and the coat of arms of our country. We have suggested that this referendum question: Are you for a red-and-white tricolor and that the two-headed white eagle of Nemnjević be the coat of arms of Serbia? Both the flag Serbian and two-headed white eagle Nemnjević were also born in our Kosovo, so this second referendum issue would symbolically explain to the whole world what is wrong with the Serbs of Kosovo, and our country would finally get its historical coat of arms and its national flag. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u302	Thank you. There is a word from MP Milan Rodic, head of the Yugoslav left's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u303	Dear President, honourable MPs, the Yugoslav left MPs are yesterday, and today they will vote in favour of the referendum just as the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people will vote against internationalisation of the Kosovo issue. It is a question concerning the Republic of Serbia, but this is a unique opportunity for citizens of Serbia and the people of Serbia to tell the international community what they think of its present presence in these areas and what results they have achieved. He will say, because he has this right, a great "no" breaking up the previous Yugoslavia, because if they hadn't interfered, a small Slovenia would not have gone to the fourth military force in Europe, would not have recognised this small, fictional state in the Balkans before, the Serbian people would not have lived in so many states in the Balkans, would not have invented sanctions, from us also unknown, or not the real reason. We will say "no" to them and to the pressures they face today towards the Republic of Serbia and ask them not to help us in this way anymore, because we see, every day they come and say they want to help us. We don't need that kind of help. If they want to help us, then let them tell us what is not in our Constitution, and there is in them, and as for the position of national minorities, national freedoms, so let's talk about it. Let us know if the authorities in Serbia have prevented Albanians from participating in power through elections, which they have never come out of it before? Whether it was the authorities in Serbia that prevented the Albanian people or if they encouraged them to tell them -- wait until we're done breaking up Yugoslavia, so when Serbia's turn comes, then we'll talk about it. Not an unwise Serbian people, he was well-detected and, of course, he looks with great consideration at every attempt to internationalise our issue, above all, Kosovo and Metohija, which my predecessors, the cradle of the Serbian people and Serbs, have said. The Yugoslav left is Yugoslav, we are for equality and equal negotiations and agreements, but only to the saunas that recognise the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia as their own country, as their homeland. They did not miss proposals to talk to the Albanian side, but we remember all these years that they agreed to talk, but only on the subject of Kosovo's independence. I'm sorry, gentlemen, in this country, or I just think, they don't have a conversation on such a subject, nor will they find a conversation. So we call on Albanians to sit at the negotiating table, to agree together on a common life in our common state of Serbia and Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u304	Thank you. He has the word Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy, Democratic, State-owned, Patriotic and Responsible Political Party believes that problems in Kosovo and Metohija must and can be solved alone in dialogue with ethnic Albanians. Of the greatest importance is the definition of most citizens and political parties, I am free to say, the general consensus that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, that secessions and changes in borders are absolutely unacceptable and that the solution must be sought in the context of defining the content of autonomy and full achievement of human and minority rights, while combating terrorism and violence. The way to reach this goal is exclusively by democratic means, dialogue and full removal of potential war conflicts, with the denial of extreme positions such as secession, changes in borders or maintaining the existing situation. A new democracy believes it is the legal right of the Serbian Parliament to call a referendum. However, we believe that the proposed referendum, especially with this defined question, is now not necessary, because the answer to the referendum question is already written in the Serbian Constitution, which we respect, accept and implement, and the answer is clear - Kosovo is Serbia. The elected representatives of the people must bear their share of responsibility in finding an adequate solution. This does not need to tie their hands, because the way the solution comes is much more important for the final solution to be in the interest of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Therefore, it would be logical for the order of moves to be different, for Serbian citizens to confirm in a referendum a final agreement that would be reached between representatives of the Serbian state and representatives of the Albanian national minority, to have the final and final will of the people. The new democracy resolutely rejects the imposition of final solutions by the international community, but we do not feel that there is a need to reject useful, good services of certain international factors, not those on the line of finding solutions within the existing borders, which oppose secession and who strongly condemn terrorism. It is logical not to accept suggestions and solutions that threaten Serbia's national and state interest. So I believe there is no one in Serbia who would agree to that. In the near past, we had examples of referendums conducted in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, which resulted in inconceivable consequences. The Serbian Parliament has just condemned every manipulation and abuse of the people's will, which we were then convinced was happening. We also had examples of the engagement of the international community, which helped solve certain problems. Let us only remember the Dayton Agreement and the Paris Peace Agreement, which took place in co-operation with international factors, which was widely welcomed by anyone responsible, discreet and normal, it did not occur to call it treason, so before Republika Srpska is now on the road to rebuilding and joining international organisations and institutions. Also, the Serbian Parliament adopted lex specialis on a proposal by President Milosevic, a law that has been the practical application of Felipe Gonzales' arbitration on the issue of local elections in Serbia. That's when the political tensions in our country broke down. Just a few days ago, representatives of the Serbian government in the three plus three group signed an agreement on the normalisation of teaching in Kosovo, with the intervention of Monsignor Palje, a representative of the Catholic organisation Saint Eudjidio, who had an intermediate mission. These examples show us that the engagement of international organisations and institutions does not have to be solely at the expense of the Serbian and Serbian people and that it is not wise to close the door to the international community, which could then change its own, for us now by a large number of significant international factors, a positive view that there is no secession, there is no change in borders and that dialogue has to come to a solution, that Kosovo must be an integral part of the state of Serbia. The consequences could be drastic, a new wave of sanctions, isolation, opposition to the whole world, with the threat of conflict of broader proportions. This would make our situation difficult, and it would also make it difficult to defend and defend the right and undeniable positions to preserve the integrity and unity of our country. As a Serbian patriot, I advocate that we convince the world of the correctness of our positions, because we have nothing to hide, because all the facts are on the side of Serbia and the Serbian people. We should not flee the world, but go to meet him in full diplomatic offensive, without fear or fear of being misunderstood. Let's talk to everyone, convince them, fight and lobby for our positions. In addition, the current president of Serbia, Mr Milan Milutinovic, in the last elections, received the support and trust of the people, primarily because of his basic definition and slogans -- "both Serbia and the world", because of his full orientation for normalising relations with the international community, for full inclusion in all international and European organisations and institutions. That's why New Democracy feels that the greatest patriotism today is not to take any wrong steps, which would contribute to the possibility of our opponents getting some chance for themselves. We need nothing to narrow down the possibility of resolving the Kosovo problem, not closing the roads for Serbia's reconstruction and economic transformation. For Kosovo in Serbia, welcome from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u306	Thank you. There's a word from MP Nenad Canak, head of the Vojvodina Coalition Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking, as I understand it, about this referendum. That was the least of the words. So far you haven't asked the people anything, and now you'd like to ask him. Why didn't you ask him when you were supposed to share the money you were getting by selling people's property, but now you're asking him when you're getting ready for another war that you're about to lose. That won't work in Vojvodina. You should know that right away. Secondly, I suggested from this assembly speaker that a survey committee be made to examine the events in Drenica. You didn't mean to, you said you wouldn't. Is that how it was - that's how it was. And now the United Nations is making you a committee of inquiry, which will do the same. The same will happen in Kosovo. First of all, Albanian extremists do not respond to the internationalisation of Kosovo, because the international community has firm views -- that lack of borders and that Kosovo is part of Serbia, which must be given a high degree of autonomy. What you're trying to do here right now will put this whole country in a position to solve the Kosovo issue by war. Thirdly, this question that, like, is proposed is a big deal, because it says, "Is the participation of foreign representatives accepted?" What foreign representatives? Are they humanitarian organisations, are they bankers, are they journalists, who are these foreign representatives, who are foreign representatives, what are foreign representatives? Does this mean that Montenegrins can't participate in all this, because it is being resolved in the Serbian Parliament, is Montenegro a foreign force, in the terms of this referendum? That's what I'm asking here, and is this question calculated on breaking this country, that is. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? That's the first question. Secondly, this problem we need to talk about, what kind of problem is that? There are various problems - there are economic ones, there are environmental ones, there are political ones, there are the most diverse ones. What problems this is about (he talks to an MP from the O.R.: there are mental ones, you're right, yes, you know it best). So that's what I want to clarify: What problems, which foreign representatives? Comrade Vojo, when I see you, I know that Serbia has failed. Therefore, it is a simple matter - this referendum is a fraud, which serves to bring this country into war, to place an entire nation between the deserved punishment of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and the international community. I don't miss my personal abroad at all, for the simple reason that when I look at the government bench, it's like I'm in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u308	There is a word from MP Zoran Angelkovic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club (replica). )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u309	The grain has always had its weeds, every nation has its Brankovic. And we have our Brankovic. I want to tell Mr. Chank that he's in on it today. But, as he said, it will not go away in Vojvodina, I want to tell him that Serbia will not be able to break, neither in Kosovo nor in Vojvodina nor in any other part of Serbia, and Brankovic will likely be in the future. And when it comes to what Zarko Jokanovic said that politicians are not taking the wrong step, that is why we are gathered today, that is why it is also the initiative of the President of Yugoslavia and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to call a referendum and that the people decide - whether we are for these international intermediaries to influence and decide how we within Serbia are going to create real relations or not? That's why we're convinced that the people will make the right decision, and they won't decide what they just said. And as international intermediaries provided good services, we remember on July 7th 1991, and then there was the same -- good services, good intentions, and the Brion Conference then, as you remember, concluded very precisely right away -- the beginning of the breaking of Yugoslavia. Slovenia at the moment, and later a piece at a time. Such good services are still being offered today and such good services have already been announced - whatever is desired: special statuses, autonomy, republics etc. So the same target, same distance. For these reasons, I am convinced that this congregation, and this people, will say no.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u310	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has the word [[Reply response]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u311	There are currently 24,000 disabled wars in Vojvodina, in which this country allegedly did not participate. If you think you're going to drag this whole country back into an accident, the way you dragged her in, that's where you gentlemen got a little fooled.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u312	There's a word from MP Dusko Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u313	Dear President, the President-in-Office, the honourable fellow Members, the question we are discussing today and which we will decide is far more important than the question and the answer to a referendum. The most important issue in the Serbian national issue is the Kosovo and Metohija issue. That is why I believe, I am sure that both the MPs and the people of Serbia will give a precise and clear answer to this question. Citizens and people of Serbia have spent ten years, through numerous elections, through many statements taking the path of a serious national policy, which the state leadership of Serbia, and now the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is conducting in the most serious way, in the interest of all citizens and peoples of Serbia. Now there is a question ahead of us about which people in Serbia should give a national response. I am sure that through this question, which has been asked about the participation of foreign intermediaries in resolving issues in Serbia, i.e. in resolving Kosovo and Metohija, the answer will be clear, a response based on the national policy, which is present in Serbia. I want to give a few elements that will allow the National Assembly of Serbia, but also the people of Serbia, to answer in a clear way to the international community the question that is ahead of us. First of all, I want to say that Serbia has made it possible for Albanians in Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, to use all civil rights, religious, cultural and other freedoms with its constitution and behaviour. Why don't they use those rights? The most drastic answer we got yesterday. You saw those pictures, which were visited by the world, those six massacred Albanians, who respected Serbia, were loyal citizens of Serbia, did business, you saw that man and his two sons, who were massacred, because they were doing their job and obeying the laws of Serbia. That is the basic answer - why Albanians do not use their rights, which Serbia has given them. They do not use it because it does not give them the separatist leadership of their Albanians in Kosovo and not give them their terrorist groups, groups that make up not only those who live in Kosovo and Metohija, but also who come from Albania. It's the first element I've given in response to the question asked in the referendum. I want to remind you of recent events in Albania, which we have almost forgotten. We saw that the great and unreserved international support to Berisha's regime was such that it led to mass bloodshed, to the death of hundreds of civilians. The consequences of this policy and this support, which Albania had from the international community and their leaders and exhibits, we have now. Still, on a daily basis, in Albania, the deaths of those weapons, which were then taken from the barracks, people who are innocent, are being dealt with outside the law, and part of the problem is certainly too much in Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the question -- does anyone want to form two or more Albanias to then form Greater Albania? Of course it can be analyzed, but the short answer is - Jell-O, but it's not real. I also want to tell the Albanian people in Kosovo that they cannot enter this adventure because it cannot be achieved in these areas. I'd like to say a few sentences about the economic aspect of this problem. The largest number of businesses, factories, units, plants in Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's economic tissue. I am the head of a factory in Serbia, which has three facilities or shares in Kosovo, which work well. There are hundreds, I would even say over a thousand Albanians. These Albanians are in fear, especially after yesterday's massacre. We know of their fears, and at the same time we know of Serbia's loyalty and the desire to resolve issues in Kosovo through dialogue and that the secret solutions are in the economic sphere. So, undermining this political issue by the international community within Serbia also undermines Serbia's economic sovereignty and economic tissue. It's very, very important. Albanian workers at factories in Kosovo know. In my opinion, dialogue is now the way to solve political problems through the political process. But it is my deep belief that the right solution in Kosovo is in the economic sphere, that all Albanians return to work, or that work freely their private business, and then the question of who is the Albanian, who is the Turk, who belongs to the nation and the people, and that the question of what is his salary, where he works, whether his private business is going well or not, what is the overall economic problem. These are issues that will permanently resolve the problem in Kosovo. About the intermediation I want a politically risky way to give an answer why we don't need intermediaries. Representatives of this leadership, separatist, Albanian parties, or Albanians in Kosovo have made it clear, they are for independence. They took off their mask, said their political goal was independence. Serbia has also made it clear what it is: for dialogue, for respect for civil, human rights, religious freedoms, and I repeat, for dialogue. Now what's the middleman need to help us? Is it to help them gain independence or help us realize the policy outlined in our Constitution? We don't need that help. That's the argument. It is a political and overall folk logic that intermediaries are not needed because we know the answer and the solution to this problem. Some mediators tell Albanians in Kosovo that independence is impossible and that they should sit down to talk and agree on what has been internationally verified. I repeat, to say to Albanians in Kosovo, they said it as a parole and phrase, but they should sit down and tell Albanians in Kosovo -- there is no independence. Where do we need the middlemen? We need intermediaries between what the European Union and the SR Yugoslavia is. It needs to be improved in our relationship. We now have criminal measures of the European Union. On every product that goes to the European Union, we have a customs duty of 6, 10, 11%. It took us 62 million dollars for the first three months. Let the intermediaries help normalise our relations with the European Union, allow the European Union's capital to come to Yugoslavia and go to Kosovo, Gjilane, Vucitrn, Trepac, etc., and you will see how Kosovo will calm down and then solve the political problem in Kosovo. I'm done. The United Nations resolution in the last five points, which relate to this problem, is in fact talking about intermediaries of internationalization. As set up, it is the destruction of Serbia and Yugoslavia. We can't accept that. National policy in Serbia will not accept that, the referendum will say. Furthermore, there is some kind of selectivity in sanctions. That's also another argument for my claim. The selectivity, which one? That sanctions would be imposed on individuals, sanctions would be imposed on Serbia, not Montenegro. This is a concrete manifestation of the internationalisation of one selective approach and double standards. I am sure that this cannot pass and a clear answer to all these questions will be given by the people and citizens of Serbia in a referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u314	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Milorad Vucelic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u315	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President, the upcoming Serbian citizens' referendum should show Serbia's readiness and determination to decide on all its issues as an independent and sovereign state, and to address both problems in Kosovo and Metohija accordingly. When it comes to the sovereignty and independence of Serbia, it is not only about its tradition and national dignity, but about its adherence to the principles on which a modern Europe rests. The principle of sovereignty and respect for territorial integrity are in the very foundations of Europe and are visible, and thus today, when the processes of stronger integration and international integration of its countries are taking place. Any attempt to solve the problems of national minorities and their aspirations or rights by disrupting existing state borders or terrorism would cause unprecedented tragic consequences in the areas of European countries and the whole world. Therefore, in reminding Europe of the universal principles of its peaceful existence, it should also seek to expand the international importance of our upcoming referendum. The notion of sovereignty and independence for us today in Serbia is indistinguishable from the concepts of a strong democratic rule of law, as a guarantee of all human rights and freedoms and reformed and developed, internationally linked, market economy. So our notion of sovereignty and independence gets its full and true meaning. There is no question that Serbia wants to go beyond the world and beyond and against international standards. Both international and international recognition of the criteria and standards by which Serbia is trying to solve the problems of Albanians in Cosmet. Against these international standards and international criteria are not citizens of Serbia, but those who are trying to solve problems with terrorism, the liquidation of their countrymen and non-insects and secessions, as well as those who support them. There is no question about Serbia's intentions not to accept international co-operation, but it must take place with respect for its sovereignty and on the principles of equality. Any procedure that would further integrate Serbia into European and global economic, social, cultural and political flows, and that would allow its presence in international organisations, which is otherwise unfairly and violently impossible, would only contribute to increasing standards and opportunities in which Serbia and Yugoslavia would be more successful in solving their problems, including problems in Kosovo and Metohija. The proceedings of punishment and sanctions are merely a conspiracy of inability to know what is truly the ultimate goal of individual factors in the international community - a peaceful dialogue or a sharp confrontation. We have expressed and tried many times, and shown our willingness to solve the problems of Albanians in Cosmet in accordance with the highest European and world standards. We did not do this in extortion and under pressure, but with respect to problems and our beliefs. The Serbian Constitution accurately defined our view of autonomy. In the assembly procedure, there is a law on local self - administration with two - housed congregations. There's been an agreement on education, and we've passed the Law on Citizenship, very tolerated. The reform process is taking place. Yugoslavia is a signator and respecter of many international conventions that address national minorities' issues. We talked about asylum seekers. Our delegation has been waiting in Pristina for days for representatives of the political organisations of Albanians, and Serbian President Milan Milutinovic is there today. In numerous international contacts, we have stressed our readiness to resolve this problem democratically, but with respect to Serbia and Yugoslavia's state and constitutional arrangements. We will continue to make these efforts and try to convince, in words and in part, the political representatives of Albanians that their aspirations for secession and terrorism are leading them to impasses. The upcoming referendum will demonstrate both Serbia and its citizens' commitment to peace, peace in Serbia, Yugoslavia, the region and beyond. This should be an incentive and a warning that problems are solved exclusively by dialogue and political means. Peace is in the interest of all Serbian citizens, of course, Albanians, and any crossover of borders in the Balkans certainly does not lead to a peaceful solution. Finally, the problems we are discussing and which we are going to address are today both a patriotic and a moral issue. The sober and reasonable patriotism must rest on the precise determination of national and national objectives and interests. It must take account of and have insight into the international context and the relationship of forces in a world where these objectives can be achieved. That would be that pragmatic part of patriotism. But there is no patriotism, no morality, no loyalty to the great principles of freedom, independence, independence, no preservation of dignity, honor and self-respect. Without it, at last, it is impossible to see what is real and true national and state interest. The Serbian people and citizens of Serbia always knew and knew that they recognized and chose the right historical path, a harmony between the true assessment of their interests and power and loyalty to high principles. I have no doubt he'll do it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u316	Thank you. There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov. Let the Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously ahead of one of the historic moments after which, if we successfully resolve the difficulties that have accumulated, our descendants will remember us. Many years have passed in which problems and conflicts have accumulated in Kosovo. It may not be up to us from Vojvodina, it may not be polite for us to be the first to deliver solutions concerning the Kosovo problem. Today doesn't even make sense to bring it up. But if we can offer life in tolerance, what we have between Serbs, Hungarians, Croats, Russian, Slovaks, Romanians, Bulgarians, Macedonians, Montenegrins and others, we are ready, if we have nothing else, to at least offer it to those who live in Kosovo. We are the furthest from Kosovo. It is not for us to offer solutions first, because the problem and the weight of Kosovo we feel at least in Serbia. But that does not mean that we lack the political will and political duty that, together with all the citizens of Serbia, we are taking part in solving this probably and the most difficult political problem that has hit us in this decade, last decade, and may be waiting for us in the next decade, to solve it. This referendum, in itself, will not solve anything. You know that well. There is no particular reason to ask our people whether he is sovereign in his country and to reject international pressures that lead to solutions that are not our own will. From that point of view, we support the right of all our citizens, because it is the constitutional right to be our masters in our home. Our people have shown so many times in history that they can defend their freedom and their pride - from Marica, from Kosovo, from the uprising of Serbs in Banat in 1594, from St. Theodore Vrsakh, to Djordz Petrovic, to the Serbian Duchy of 1848, to the Balkan wars, the First World War, the Second World War, the Sremic Front, the refusal to submit to the pressure of the Soviet Union and on many other occasions. Our people are heroic people. He doesn't need to be specifically questioned whether he's going to tell abroad not where he thinks it's useful. What we want you to point out is that we know the answer of our people to the referendum question. What we don't know is what our government's position on the Kosovo issue is. We can call a referendum. The answer will be no. We understand that. But we don't know what our government wants in Kosovo. Our people want peace, they want economic development, our people don't reject economic, political, cultural, sports and other co-operation with abroad. But he wants to know what our government's political platform is in negotiations with Kosovo Albanians. Albanians have formed their negotiating team. As much as this team will mean to them, let them see it for themselves in the future. We have formed a certain negotiating team, but this team does not have a negotiating platform. What do representatives whose head is Ratko Markovic in Pristina do? Why is the President of our Republic in Pristina today? What does he want to talk to Albanians about that won't come again? With what attitudes do they go to Kosovo and Metohija, with which arguments await counterarguments? This assembly is competent to form here a political platform for our relationship with Albanians in Kosovo. We firmly respect unity in Serbia. Serbia is one country. We want one frontier, one flag, one constitution, one currency, one central bank, one foreign policy, one army. But we must be aware that this political system can no longer be offered to our citizens. This political system was a cover for the big robbery, for the terrible redistribution of assets and money, where several hundred Belgrade and other families became millionaires, and millions were in poverty and beheaded. What do we want to ask our people today? There's a lot of blood in it. Is there profit and corruption in our government's blood or in our government's veins? There's no need to ask our people if he's heroic, if he's brave, if he'll say no. Our government today needs to be brave and come to us with a proposal for a platform. We who represent citizens here, who bear the delegated sovereignty of our people, need to discuss, do not have to do this moment, but we must put on the agenda of the Republika Srpska Assembly a Kosovo issue to build a political platform. This government or this government didn't ask our citizens in the past what was more important, it didn't ask the Vojvodina whether they wanted to lose autonomy, it didn't ask our people if they wanted to go to war in Bosnia and Croatia, this government didn't ask our people if they wanted to have a second-largest inflation in history, it didn't ask if they wanted to lose an army in Dayton. The President of the Republic, after Dayton, didn't come to this assembly to say that we no longer have armies, that he signed an agreement that cut half the tanks, half the planes, half the hoods, half the missile system. What are we going to defend ourselves with? He didn't come here to tell us that Vojvodina was deserted, that there was no defense, that there was no armored battalion on her territory. We never talked about these things. We didn't call a referendum on these things. Therefore, knowing what our people's answer will be, we want to point out immediately that this response does not mean adjudication to our government's error, to huge failures, to poverty and misery. Don't think, I'm convinced, many of you don't need much proof of the people's will means that our government should continue to talk and negotiate in Kosovo without knowing what. We want a clear political platform. Let's open a discussion here in the Assembly. Let our people go to the referendum. Whoever comes out and tells foreign forces, no, is a patriot. And the one who doesn't come out because he thinks he's strong enough and doesn't need to be underestimated by these questions, and he's a patriot. Both are patriots. The only non-patriot in our Serbia is our cowardly government. I invite her out for this pay phone and say what she wants in Kosovo, not the people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the People's Unity unanimously accepted the initiative of the President of the Republic and unanimously decided to come forward with a motion to call this referendum. On some normal occasions, the question raised in the referendum would be deplaced, but these are not normal occasions. This time, the same forces that destroyed the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska would want to destroy Serbia. We would like the Serbian people and Serbian countries to share exactly in that pattern, according to which Hitler had already divided them in 1941. It's the same pattern. Now it's Kosovo and Metohija's turn. But it's not only that the great forces would tear up our Serbia, it's that they're trying to prove their propaganda activities that they're doing it for our own good, that they're destroying us, because it's for us the most beautiful variant, that they're doing euthanasia, that they're killing us out of charity. And these same great forces are trying to prove that Serbia is ruled by a government, which does not enjoy the trust of the people, that the people would like to capitulate, but the government does not. One exponent of the Western forces with such an idea was recently seen on one of the local Belgrade televisions. That's exactly what he did -- he wants good to the Serbian people, but here he is being distracted by this government, which runs another policy, a policy that doesn't suit the Serbian people. The government of the Republic of Serbia has a unique platform for holding talks with representatives of the Albanian national minority. The platform is well known to everyone in Serbia. The platform is very simple: Kosovo is the internal issue of Serbia. It's a platform. We want to talk about everything, all the problems, but within Serbia. There is another framework for the platform, which is the Constitution of Serbia. The government can think what they want, the government can think what they want, but it has to stick to the Constitution. The government can't build any platform past the Constitution. For us, the Constitution is sacred, until a two-thirds decision by the congregation's majority or referendum is changed. We have a very solid constitution that can't be changed that easily. And the government must respect and enforce the Constitution. It is our platform: the constitution and the principle that Kosovo is the internal issue of Serbia. The rest of the government is ready to discuss with all relevant representatives of the Albanian national minority. But with them directly, not with their lawyers and their tutors. No Western politician, who comes to Belgrade to read lessons to the Serbian authorities and the Serbian regime, to the Yugoslav regime, and goes to Pristina, so he hugs the chief representative of Albanian separatistism, publicly hugs, cannot be a representative and cannot be a mediator. Even if we wanted a middleman, who hugged Rugova, couldn't be a mediator, proved he wasn't objective, proved to be biased. Because in Belgrade, he doesn't hug anyone, although there would be some who would hug him, there are others here, and he doesn't hug anyone, he even humiliates those he gets from time to time by leaving them waiting for him in hotel aulas, to receive them in a hotel room or on the lawn of his embassy in Belgrade, so he humiliates them further. He wants the Quislings in Belgrade. He's ready today-to-morrow, if he's given the opportunity, to form the Quislin Authority. But even those to whom he has purposed the role of the Quisling, he wants to humiliate as much as possible, so that he doesn't accidentally lose control. Don't, Mr. Canak, scare this government of The Hague. The Hague is afraid of some of this government. I wanted to go to The Hague in December 1995. They wouldn't let me. Why didn't they give it to me? They're afraid of me coming to The Hague. I still want to go to The Hague. The moment I get a chance, I leave both the government and the vice president's office and I travel to The Hague. Here, that's what I'm saying here in public. Don't scare the bear with a grate. Second, don't perform on behalf of the Duke. When you have a little more parliamentary mandates and a little more votes in Vojvodina, then you can say you represent someone serious in Vojvodina. Who do you represent? The one who mistakenly circled the name of your coalition. You were the only one who could have won some votes in this election at the wrong time, no different. The Together coalition argued, so their disappointed voters, so some parties boycotted, so come on, they say they're the opposition. They didn't even get to meet you. We'll see in the next election that's in Vojvodina. Especially after those Austro-Hungarian flags you pulled in late 1996 in Novi Sad. You kept them for decades, then you sucked them out. Now, these two or three Austrian flags, which you demonstrated in Novi Sad, will mark the end of your political being. There's something going on in Kosovo and Metohija that we all know. There was a terrorist rebellion, a boycott by most members of Albania's national minority system institutions. How did Western forces come about terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija? They brought to the UN Security Council a resolution on the seduction of arms embargoes to Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia and Cypriot terrorists. Well, like, they're objective, they don't give either side of the weapon. They are equating Albanian terrorists with legal and legitimate authority. After all, there is an arms embargo for the sale of weapons to terrorists all over the world, in all countries it has to be respected ever since. No state under international public law should sell weapons to terrorists. Some do so illegally, some in their territory have training centres for Albanian terrorists. We also know which countries they are. Some of them drill into the chest that the treasures of democracy are the highest of the world's reach of democracy, etc. And they practice terrorists and a little bit of them refer to Kosovo and Metohija, equip them for terrorist action. Many members of the Albanian national minority suffer because of the current situation and because of the terror, which is being carried out. Here, six Albanians are now liquidated. It's the latest news from Kosovo and Metohija. Why are they liquidated? Just because they didn't want to deal with separatist activities, just because they weren't separatists. And this Serbian government must protect members of Albania's national minority from Cypriot terrorists and separatists. And this government will find a way to protect all loyal members of the Albanian national minority, all of whom are considered Serbian citizens and who are ready to live peacefully, normally within Serbia. It is an obligation that we can discuss and accept by the Government of People's Unity. What is a hell of a plan by Western forces designed for Kosovo and Metohija? America still doesn't recognise SR Yugoslavia. Even outside the UN building in New York, the flag of the former Yugoslavia hangs out with a red five-pointer. More Americans in the official transcript talk about Serbia-Montenegro. If you know anyone in America, so he writes a letter to you, and if he accidentally writes - Yugoslavia or SR Yugoslavia, in the post office they cross it off and write - Serbia-Montenegro. That's what they do in America. America... (loud from the O.R.: You're lying! ). Listen, you Serbian deception movement can be angry with the will. You don't even know what your positions are. You're one day away from intervention and for internationalization of truth, and the next day you're against foreign intervention, for a referendum, etc. How to grasp what your policy is and what your ideological leadership is, but you have the right to be politically disoriented. It's your democratic right. [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u319	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u320	And what is the goal of the Western forces in Kosovo and Metohija? They say Kosovo is the internal issue of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Why? To make it easier to separate him from Serbia. And they say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They can change, therefore, internal borders. What they did not allow for AVNOJ Croatia or AVNOJ Bosnia and Herzegovina, can now be declared AVNOJ Serbia -- to break off its territory and declare a new federal unit. And if Western forces were to succeed, they would not rush with the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but in the first phase, with the help of a potentially self-friendly regime in Podgorica, as they wish and at whose creation they work, they would achieve a forced administration over Serbia at the federal level. They have a similar regime in Podgorica, a similar regime in Pristina -- to rule over Serbia through federal institutions of government. So when Serbia is insufferable, when it faces such a situation, it rebelles against such a situation, that Serbia is to blame for the destruction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It's made up, and we have to stop it at all costs. What is the meaning of this referendum? Yes, people, that all citizens of Serbia demonstrate their will. I'm personally convinced that the vast, vast majority will answer no to any foreign interference, interference in our internal affairs. The answer will have great symbolic and even greater political significance. Anything directed from the West against such a response will not be presented as action against the Serbian government, against authorities in Belgrade, but action against the Serb people, against all citizens of Serbia as a whole. That's what strengthens us. And secondly, we need to make it clear to the whole world: there's nowhere out of this skin. We're all dressed up to the wall, we're dressed up in a corner, and we have to fight for the naked survival. Everything they've come up with for us, we've got to hold on. And we need to let them know in advance that we're going to make it. So much will the people, I'm convinced, this time they'll be unwavering. Our people will stand resolutely against all those who are working to destroy Serbia, the destruction of the Serb people, who do not wish well for any Serbian citizen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u321	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr Vojislav Zivkovic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radovan Pankov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u322	Dear People's MPs, a proposal from the government of the People's Unity, which is on the agenda, to call a referendum in which Serbian citizens will declare whether foreign interference in resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues has been given these days the unreserved support of the residents of Cosmet who are in favour of preserving the sovereignty and integrity of our country. There is no doubt that the people will define themselves to resolve the fate of our country and will once again plead against blackmail and pressure to give in to Albanian separatists. Some centres of power in the world have been hidden for years, and are now openly supporting Albanian secessionists in Kosovo and Metohija. We are witnessing that they condemn all of Serbia's government's initiatives to establish dialogue on current problems, and even to give in to human problems in the area of education, Western powers do not consider sufficient signs of goodwill -- they say -- Serbian sides. The most harsh support the separatism of Albanian terrorists and in all ways seek to block the actions of the Serbian state's authorities against terrorist gangs, help arm terrorists who meet death in Cosmet and endanger peace throughout the region. Should we allow foreign intermediaries to judge Serbia in Serbia, to have paid lobbyists lurk around the country, blackmail us and kidnap us from the cradle of the Serbian state and culture. This is a time when the wisdom of diplomacy, the efficiency of the state and the rights of the people is proved. We are also involved in the historic turning point of our country and our people. If by any chance we give in to the pressures and blackmails of the West, we will lose the cradle of our statehood at all times. The main weapon in achieving the political goals of Albanian separatists in Kosovo and Metohija is terrorism. In the last few years alone in Kosovo and Metohija, Albanian terrorists have carried out nearly 250 terrorist attacks, in which more than 60 members of the interior ministry and loyal citizens of our country have lost their lives. The main arms and drug traffickers are also members of the separatist movement in Kosovo and Metohija, which West also knows well. According to the objectives, the methods of action and the way of organisation and tradition, the terrorist groups in the area of Kosovo and Metohija are the symbiosis of traditional Albanian terrorism, which is rooted in the helmet movement, through ballistic gangs and later so-called Marxist and Leninist Groups and Contemporary Experiences of IRE and ETS and Muslim-Fundamental terrorist groups from the Middle East. The political sponsorship of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija is Albania's emigration from the West. There is clearly a common idea core of both terrorists and Albanian parties in Kosovo and Metohija, which act with logistical support, primarily Albania, but also some Western countries, the most open of Germany, which allows and supports the functioning of the illegal government of the phantom republic in Bona, and also financially aids terrorism through some humanitarian organisations. The lack of a clear condemnation of terrorism from some Albanian parties and favoured the international community's relationship has contributed recently to the burning of a terrorist movement with a fundamental goal of causing chaos and the cause of warfire. And in such an extremely difficult situation, the largest number of Serbs and Montenegrins and loyal citizens in Kosovo and Metohija have confidence in the state of Serbia and its institutions. Regardless of all the problems, threats and blackmail, Serbia must preserve its own integrity and sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. We believe that this can also be done under these circumstances by combining strong political initiatives and strong state actions to establish order and peace in the areas of southern Serbia. We need to be aware that we have a fanatical, tough opponent who's gone after everything or nothing, and he's aware that if he doesn't get to the finish line right now, the next chance he's gonna have to wait a long time. We need to achieve an absolute consensus on Kosovo and Metohija on all forces and on the political homogenisation of all Serbs and loyal citizens of this country. There's no dilemma that it's actually the only time at this point -- a referendum. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u323	Thank you. There is a word from MP Radovan Pankov, and let the MP Slobodan Tomovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u324	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, Slobodan Milosevic's initiative, the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to declare in a referendum whether the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija is a wise state and political move, especially if it is known that Kosovo and Metohija today are the most important state and national issue of Serbia, a question which in the past has often determined the fate of our country, and now concerns directly its future. The increasingly pronounced blows, pressures and ultimatums exposed to Serbia in order to give in to the demands of Cypriot separatists and terrorists are only part of the imagined scenario for Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to break down and disintegrate. It is clear that behind the paravans of religious care for the human and civil rights of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija is the hiding of Albanian separatists to secede and attempt to create another Albanian state in the Serbian country. That is why I am convinced that the referendum initiative is the only real and democratic move to hear the voice of its people, all Serbian citizens. With the referendum we decide on the inalienable rights of man, country, state, rights with which the word "inalienable" does not stand by chance, but with clear and profound reasons. These are the rights that every country has, and so is ours. Those rights must also be respected when it comes to Serbia. I must remind myself that we won the battle for statehood and unity, the integrity of Serbia at the end of the 1980s. After that, democratically, with the participation of citizens, we changed the 1974 Constitution, which gave Kosovo and Metohija, as well as Vojvodina elements and the status of the Republic. The Tastava has made it possible in the most perfident way to dedecade terror, persecution and exile, ethnic cleansing of the Serb and Montenegrin people from Kosovo and Metohija. The new constitution marked the end of Serbia's policy of breaking and correcting a major historical injustice. Part of the international community and world powers that would threaten and force themselves to regulate, according to their small country and people's will, in recent years have literally done everything to limit the basic rights of the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia to take their place in the world under equal conditions, insulating them and satanicizing them. However, part of the foreign factor is now being put aside from Albanian separatism, supporting secession and internationalisation of the Kosovo-methohic problem. Serbia and the Serbian people have never, ever denied any living here, any elemental, human, civil or national rights. The best evidence of this is stable international relations that have been established and established in Vojvodina. We know that from the Duke's best guess. That's why, when we say Vojvodina, we mean Serbia. We mean Serbs, Hungarians, Romanians, Russians, and all others living in Vojvodina together and in peace. That's what we're recognizable for. Living in Vojvodina means understanding others, helping others, whatever nations they may be, and being proud of the other one who lives with us. The Socialist Party of Serbia's policy was and remained a policy full of civil and national equality, and it is best affirmed right in our northern province. This can also be achieved in Kosovo and Metohija. It is necessary for Albanian separatists to accept the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are our internal affairs and that the problem is solved in accordance with the will of the citizens of Serbia, the laws and the Constitution. That is why I am convinced that Serbia's citizens in the referendum will make it clear that Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija are one state. Let's go to the referendum, vote against the participation of foreign representatives in resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. Against foreign interference in our case means for our country, for Serbia and its sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u325	Thank you. There is a word from MP Slabodan Tomovic, and let MP Rajko Djurdjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u326	Mr. President, honourable MPs, there are well-known examples from Serbian history that, by rule, whenever cloud clouds were outsmarted over Serbia, the national champions gathered together to agree on what to do and how to defend themselves from the clouds. It is also known that these decisions had the mark of the people, because they represented his will as an expression of the eternal aspirations for sovereignty and independence. So it was in Orasco, so it was under the forest of Takow and in countless other cases mentioned and unspeakable. If history is a teacher of life, it's clear what we should do today, and what on the day of the plea in the referendum. The claim that history repeats itself is correct, as the MPs gathered in this room today to decide as the national champions what Serbia should do and what should be presented to the world and to the citizens of Serbia. So, let's say by who knows which way to the world -- Kosovo and Metohija have always been and are today an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The territory was never part of any other country, so any problems in this Serbian province are its internal issue. Albanian minority members in Kosovo generally have the same rights as other citizens and all these rights have been established in accordance with the highest European standards, including OSCE standards and the Council of Europe Framework Convention. Separatism, which is publicly represented by representatives of certain political Albanians, has led to terrorism that has taken up dozens of lives. It is holy law for every country to defend itself against terrorism and to protect its territorial integrity, public order and the security of its citizens. This right is not disputed to anyone in the world, and when Serbia responds in the spirit of that right, then the World Power Council calls upon the Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations under the press of the World Powers. Let's be clear, there are no armed conflicts in Kosovo, so there is no danger of conflict spilling, there is no danger of peace and security and there is no basis for calling on the HeadVII Charter. The Contact Group's positions in London on 9 March and in Bon 25 March are a rough demonstration of the policy of force. The group takes the right to determine who can and who cannot defend against terrorism and separatism. These forces even suggest that someone must work together to break the integrity of their own state territory, threaten sanctions, military interventions, prevent normal economic development and the lives of millions of people. All in the name of democracy, of human rights and of God. Threats in peace and security in Kosovo and in the environment are the support that certain circles under the influence of the pro-Albanian lobby, in what countries, permanent members of the Security Council, provide secessionist aspirations for Albanians in Kosovo. One issue is the exercise of human rights and the rights of members of national minorities, and the other is the issue of constitutional organisation of the state, relations between different levels of government, government relations and self-government. These are internal issues for every sovereign country and we will solve these issues ourselves, without the interference of foreign representatives and by refusing any internationalisation. Citizens of Serbia, dialogue and political means, without anyone's intervention and internationalisation, respect for Serbia's integrity and sovereignty is the only way to resolve all issues in Kosovo and Metohija. If one counts with promises that something else is possible in Serbia, outside of the European conventions and standards on the rights of members of national minorities, if it counts that Serbia is a polygon for some new experiments and precedents, it wastes time and is uglyly wrong. We are in favour of dialogue, political means and within the framework of European conventions. It's little to say that any pressures are unnecessary. The Serbian government, as President Marjanovic pointed out, is firmly defined to insist on the definition, as this is the only time to provide all civil and human rights and equality for all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Advocating some countries to seek solutions for Kosovo outside Serbia is a violation of Serbia's territorial integrity, a country that has existed more than 13 centuries, much earlier even than any idea of Yugoslavia. This pledge is a flagrant violation of Serbia's border integrity, which is contrary to the United Nations Charter. The idea of internationalising the resolution of Kosovo's problem (by the way, in no country in Europe has been recorded such an attempt to interfere with vitals, it is even avoided in "banana states") to continue helping the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because, if internationalisation was accepted, it would give space to various European and world commissions, triplets such as Europeans, and other groups and groups that through the provision of so-called. Good services first inaugurate Kosovo as the third republic in the SRJ, and then recognise its right to self-determination, and more in the final phase, its merger with Albania and the creation of a great Albania. Of course that would not be the end, because it would continue to be internationalised by Vojvodina, so Sandzak, who knows what else and how long, in blindness, which has pathology prisms, due to the survival, oasis of sovereignty and independence, represented in the Balkans by Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Thank them for that kind of help and a very nice house for them. Serbs are known as a friendly people, but besides, it was not allowed for the guest to play a host, and in particular it was not allowed to an uninvited guest. We, MPs in the Serbian Parliament, are not going to let us enter history as people who have given permission to order the alien in our backyard. If we are MPs, we must respect the will of the voters and fulfill their orders, and the orders are clear and unique. As an illustration, I will quote one of the messages, which these days the MPs of Šumadija (quote): "We ask the MPs to vote at the meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly to hold a referendum, which was initiated by President Slobodan Milosevic and to create an air-conditioning in which citizens will be massed to vote, and we are confident that the only answer for the patriots can be - no, to those who want to dissipate our country. - Participants of the Parliament in Knic, 5 April" (end quote). The quoted message reflects the mood of the forest people. There are no Brankovics in the forest. The forest will say no uniquely and without dilemma. The foresters will not allow them to silence and dry Serb trumpets in Kosovo. In the Woodland, the rule applies -- no one has the right to sign the country's capitulation, and by agreeing to the internationalisation of the Kosovo issue, we would just do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u327	There's a word from MP Rajko Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u328	The Serb brothers, the Serbian sisters, and you, the insider, who feel this country as your own, respect it, and in it you find the only place where brotherly life can be faced with a new historical situation, full of challenges, we face the threat of our country's naked occupation. It is certain that the answer to this referendum is already contained in our Constitution, but as a small nation, tortured by wars, we also agree to this concession, to show by another referendum that there is no disharm between leadership and this people. Careful analysts (not to repeat themselves, much has been said) have been following the situation around Kosovo for more than a year. You remember that first came news from world powers, from individual lobbies, congressmen, various associations, that it is inevitable to give independence to the Shiptars in Kosovo, the Republic and a special state. Such statements were calculated, firstly, to cause shock in the Serbian people, so that immediately after three days, there would be warning from more than one official place - well, we are not looking for secession, but only a return of autonomy, but a full territorial and political economy, which is only a second name for the Republic, or a separate state. What that trick is -- we'd really be politically underage if we didn't understand its essence. It is calculated for two reasons -- however much violence the so-called international community has been, as we call it here today, several world powers, which end the map of the world, which at this point have caused over 36 wars around the world, tens of thousands of miles away from their home, are looking for political interests, and do not agree that we have the right to naked life. We need to understand that it's just an introduction and only the first half to finally secede and break our country. That's the kind of thing this people can't agree to. The loss of Kosovo and Metohija is not only a loss of one geographical piece, a whole of its territory, but a loss of the essence of its statehood. Only foolish people can believe and hope that approval of foreign forces and giving that part of territory would mean peace for the rest of the country and the people. There is no such peace. Finally, in this tactics, in this strategy, simply, however violent they are, those requirements cannot bind to this violent act of secession and therefore move gradually. The first act is calculated to obtain a separate territorial and political formation within Yugoslavia, and then, of course, follows the right to secession, according to Lenin's principle, by Marxism - Leninism and by all their other pranks. We have to show our age that we absolutely don't agree to such a thing. We must see through such intentions. It is not unknown how Serbian radicals and the whole country responded to a similar ultimatum in 1914 and we cannot argue with those claims - we are small and we cannot oppose it. We must remind ourselves that Serbia then had four million inhabitants, an empty military warehouse, swept up by previous wars, but had a high degree of morality, a high state-of-the-art consciousness to answer such a thing. Secondly, this subsequent requirement to obtain political and territorial autonomy is calculated double-smart -- although we know that the ultimate goal is to finally secede, by creating autonomy in that matrix of the executioner and villain Joseph Broz, would mean creating a state in the state, with all those obligations that the rest of Serbia, which had lost even a elemental name, did not know what to call it, supported by this new Shiptar state, that it was stronger, until the act of final secession. And for us, there would no longer be any remnant in this part of the territory that would remain, to any nation, to whom a throne would be taken, its historical thought, the whole state thought. We need to remind ourselves that this people exist on two bribes. It's a sacred and Kosovo myth. I would cut my discussion short because of a great deal of interest and a great number of you who would like to talk about this and contribute, including those who are trying to give us a hint of separatism on the other side of our country, cutting off our plains. We can only benefit from showing numbers and publicly from this assembly to the Germans that not all the fifth columns of World War II have been expelled for the Autonomous Vojvodina, even if we charge for that war damage. We are witnessing absurd situations that Catholic Prelates are negotiating in Pristina on the educational system of Muslim Shipars. We are witnessing that former German intelligence officers speak on behalf of democracy and return to the Balkans with the same strength, the hatred of the Austrian subordinates, who tasked us with the Drina, the Pussy Stone, the Pocerina, all the way to Thessaloniki and the Albanian gourds. Of course, our only answer to such situations can be - no. He's rational, he's state-of-the-art. An elderly lady, who would rather be with grandchildren, or even with great-grandsons, in her hellish hatred, next of all her country's interests, had visited the world in 24 hours, sowing hatred for the Serb people. It's up to us, brothers and sisters, to show, and that's what I'm saying to those who are watching us on television right now, that our love is greater than the hatred of Madeline Albright and all the other lieutenants who would like to tear us apart and occupy Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u329	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Vait Ibro, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nino Rajevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u330	Dear People's MPs, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia. That was the case with the existence of the Serbian state and will remain so. It is necessary to vigorously reject the participation of foreign representatives in solving the problem of a sovereign state. Deny, not because of some chills or fears, but because the international community, when it comes to the Balkans, and especially the Serb people, led a policy that meant, above all, the breaking of the Serbian people and the state. Internationalisation is just entering a process that will lead to the collapse of the state, and Kosovo and Metohija are the first stage in this. Cosmetic spaces are a territory that has been known for centuries as a vast multiethnic community. It is precisely because of the eternal common life in these areas that Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, Muslims, Roma, Turks and others should show the international community that the unreasonable support of only Albanians and long-term care is only for their rights. I'm Muslim, territorial Goran. It's a territorial area that has managed to preserve its indigenousness. He is educated in Serbian, despite the long-term Albanianisation. In some areas of Cosmet, assimilation has been performed, so a paradox occurs, children speak Serbian, and schools learn Albanian. Today more than 100,000 Muslims live in Cosmet, and they clearly and unequivocally experience Serbia as their country and Kosovo and Metohija's problem as an internal issue. They have a lot of problems, but all these problems feel they can solve in this country, first of all, with respect to its Constitution and the law. Serbia is, above all, a civil state. Muslims are represented in the Assembly, government, local self-government. Muslims from Cosmeta are scattered across Serbia and Yugoslavia and use all civil rights while fulfilling all obligations towards the state: serving military time, going to elections, schooling according to official programmes. The international community, calling for respect for the rights of national minorities, allows and thus supports the separatistism that clearly brings up the leaders of Albanian parties. The Albanian minority, under pressure from political leaders, has been boycotting part of its rights for a long time. He boycotts the census, general and local elections. Also, on the orders of the leaders, all property, social and other rights, the right to work, in the private and public sectors and public services are used. They use unlimited information rights, which confirms that more than 50 daily and weekly newspapers and publications are regularly published in the Albanian language in Cosmet. The boycotting of individual rights, and the use of other rights, are the result of the pressure and blackmail of leaders, whose publicly declared secession programme is from Serbia. In this function is also terrorism, which aims to discipline Albanians and seek to comply with the boycott by raising tension and distracting the international community. That Serbia simply cannot allow under any conditions. Therefore, if someone boycotts the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, no one can interpret them as being denied or as a sign of discrimination, and even less as an argument that they seek greater rights than others have. The basic problem in Cosmet is not rights, but secessionism and terrorism, which grew up on the secession program. The non-judgment of terrorism by Albanian party leaders creates a circle of forces that are only a cause for human rights and aims to create an Albanian republic. Serbian citizens must clearly, by this very referendum, say -- not such a scenario. There is still time for political dialogue and negotiations to address issues of the interest of all citizens. That is exactly what the Albanian people must understand, because everything that will happen will suffer alone, not party leaders. This separates the interests of the people from the interests of the political leaders. Leaders can look forward to their plans, projections, instructions from various Western cuisines. In fateful moments for the state, when it comes to historical and fundamental issues, the Albanian people should show their will and objectivity to keep Cosmet in Serbia, to live together and use the right and solve all other problems in the frameworks of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore expect that the democratic method, the referendum, the citizens of Serbia show their will, determination and dignity not to allow others to create the fate of the people, our families and the fate of our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u331	He has the word of the People's Messenger Nino Rajevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u332	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a member of the SPO from Kosovo and Metohija for five years. We're in favour of a referendum and we're, to say the least, no. The previous speakers who were here said very badly about what I'm about to say and what 90% said, I agree with them. And we agree with them from Kosovo and Metohija. However, some party I'd call a village or an ass instead of a cheek seems to have an ass, which the villagers would call my ass.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u333	I'd like to ask the MP to respect the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u334	It is increasingly clear that foreign countries are trying to decide, not to help Serbia. To end the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, it is increasingly clear that they have been defined as one side, and that is not Serbia, not Serbs. Never has a foreign force decided on Serbs and Serbia. We know perfectly well in 1914, what we said, let's say this 1941, that was lame, but it was the way it was. When it comes to honor, face and dignity of the Serbian people, there must be no and no dilemmas about trying for democratic dialogue under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. There's got to be a dialogue, because it's better to talk than to fight. But if war is to be fought, it should be fought hard and fast. Someone said, "I need to talk to you for months, years." Neither are Albanians ready to talk to us for months or years, nor are we ready to talk to them for months or years. How do you talk? We need to talk to facts, just facts and familiarize Europe and the world with facts. It's our strongest weapon. For now, we don't use it, not enough, not enough language for strangers to accept and understand. This time I don't mean Americans, because they've clearly identified themselves as who they're with, but the others we really need to cooperate with. In the field with Serbian Renewal Movement President Vuk Draskovic, led on foreign newspaper sites, including the famous "L'amon Diplomatic", an Albanian writer, whom you know, their most famous writer, has pointed out the white flag. He's used to using inventions and structures, so he hasn't even tried to resist and resist the force of the arguments on Kosovo that Vuk Draskovic made. Truth and justice are on our side. And it's right on our side. Let wisdom be on our side.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u335	He has the word Dragan Tomic, a folk MP. I rarely take this opportunity, but now I want to address you as a MP. In a letter addressed to top Serbian officials, Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic spoke of pressures on behalf of democracy. And indeed, the pressures on our country have always had that cynical justification. That justification is even more cynical if it is known that the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as other crises, which are used to pressure small peoples, is actually an artificially created crisis. No national, democratic, human or religious right of any Serbian population is in any way threatened by the state. If any of these rights are threatened, only Albanian terrorism, supported by these external pressures in the name of democracy. We would hardly believe that the richest, technically best equipped countries in the world, with huge analytical teams, have false data and that they do not know the truth about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. If they know and must know, because they know everything, then why is this attitude towards Serbia? Why is all Serbia's efforts to resolve everything peacefully in advance condemned and obstructed? Because, apparently, someone here needs a hotspot. Carriers of the new world order seek crises to show their power, to manage crises, and to maintain subjugation of other countries and peoples. When there's no crisis, they don't stop making them. Kosovo and Metohija in the plans of these powerful men are designed as a hotspot. In parallel, somewhere in the neighborhood, a new, spare, hotspot is being prepared, and behind that, until we are all in the same machine, according to the same "democratic" recipes and with the same boss. Should we, who have such fresh memories from the collapse of the previous Yugoslavia, who we know by heart the order of moves, allow ourselves to repeat the past? I don't think so. Also, I don't think we can be the only country in the world that's been deprived of the right to defend and defend itself against terrorism. We don't accept that. I'm convinced no country would accept that. I also believe that my position or position of any high party or state official must go through a public check at a time like this, i.e. Citizens. I don't think there's any more democratic procedure to check the public's attitudes in a matter of referendums. As an MP in this assembly, I am pleased to support President Slobodan Milosevic's initiative to call a referendum. It's the only way to confirm the correctness of our policy and get the right mandate to continue on our national course so far. I don't have any dilemmas. I am convinced that Serbian citizens will choose the wisest solution. At the same time, I believe in the wisdom of the Albanian people. I am convinced that our people will not allow others to experiment with our lives and wisdom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u338	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the Government, the honourable MPs, today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the issue we are discussing, I am confident, will define the permanent future of the Republic of Serbia, Yugoslavia and the future life of citizens in this area. Aware of the seriousness and importance of the decision that the Assembly is to make today, as a National MP, I wanted to hear the opinion of the citizens, above all, of the voters whose voice defined me as an MP in this assembly. I wanted to base my personal parliamentary voice on the public's opinion, and for the past few days, I have listened to their voice and their opinion in several parts of the Sword, Posavina, Tamnava and Jadra. If I were to put out in just one sentence what the citizens of northwestern Serbia think about mixing foreign intermediaries in solving Kosovo and Metohija's problems, I think that would be a sentence spoken by a seventy-year-old Machvanin. That host said to me, "Cerko, for over 50 years I've been plowing my field and never asked my neighbor what I'm gonna sow." I think this concise thought of a wise antique can serve as an idea of leadership and this assembly in today's debate on the issue launched by the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. That's what the world and Serbia know. Both the world and Serbia know that on the territory, on every part of the territory of a country, all issues are resolved on the territory of that country. There is no sovereign state where internal problems are solved by someone on the side. She can't be precedentd here. A precedent in such a case abolishes the sovereignty of the state, which is only a step along the way towards the deforestation of a nation and, I would say, towards the occupation of a nation. I'm not going to say anything new when I say that the Serbian people of Stefan's Necessance to this day gave almost every generation their energy and immeasurable sacrifice to preserve two basic pillars of their identity -- their freedom and their own state. Ask any child who is the most beautiful country to him. Rest assured, you will always get the same answer: the most beautiful country is a free country. To lead a successful state policy in the name of a people who have such sanctity can only be ruled by the rule of the people's politics. So the question we are discussing today is not the issue of this or that political party and it is not the issue of this or that government. This is a fundamental and fateful question that only the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia can answer. And by answering this question, Serbian citizens will also give their own court on a policy that has been led so far in Serbia, a policy that has grown up and grew in the energy of national will, at the will of the Serbian people to make Serbia a single state throughout its territory. This assembly and the Government of National Unity, which we have recently chosen, are the expression of the will of the largest part of Serbia's electoral body and are legitimate state bodies ahead of all internal and foreign factors, which, as a highlight of democracy, recognise the will of citizens in the elections. In that sense, any decision, including a decision on the Kosovo and Metohija issue, would be legitimate. But starting with the fact that the power of the world's policy to the state leadership of Serbia does not respect these arguments, which is otherwise not put anywhere in sovereign countries, the initiative to call a referendum on whether Serbian citizens accept foreign intermediaries in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija is the best and only possible solution. Ahead of this solution, that is, before the citizens of Serbia respond to this issue, the power of world policy must stand. The sovereign will of the people, as bearer of the sovereignty of the Serbian state, must be respected and unimpeached. It is our duty to tell the citizens of Serbia and the entire world public from this pay phone. It has not happened in the history of any people, and in particular it is not in Serbian history, to disown sovereignty over its territory by its will. Therefore, all those who think Serbia is an undefined space, where everyone can create their own state as they wish, may once and for all realise that Serbia is a sovereign republic within the SR of Yugoslavia, Serbia is a state in which the law, and run by legitimately elected authorities, is elected in democratic elections. All rules, which apply to any other sovereign country, must apply to the state of Serbia as well. The referendum will best show the world that Serbia and the people of Serbia will not allow them to become precedents in international law. The principles of the UN Charter will not be destroyed on Serbia, which is the principle of sovereignty and integrity of the state. Dear People's MPs, I propose that today, uniquely at this session of the National Assembly, without party acuity and any group of interests, we make a decision to call a referendum and invite our citizens of Serbia to come to the referendum in the largest possible number and give their answer to the mentioned question. Let us show the world that with our policy we follow the will of the people, who chose us and that, apart from the will of the peoples in Serbia, no one can solve internal issues and problems in the Republic of Serbia. Let's show the world that Serbia is the home of Serbian citizens, that this is our field and that no one other than Serbian citizens can sow in that field. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u339	Thank you. We've got four minutes left, just to make a deal. I suggest right now, since there are 40 registered, so another 21 speakers need to speak, let's make a decision now to extend our working hours until we finish the session. Do you agree? (agree) Do we have to vote or not? (Glass: we don't have to. I thank you. Resume session is at 2.30 p.m. [[Continuation after break at 14.45 p.m.]] Dear People's MPs, let's continue our work. There is a word from the MP Slobodan Nenadovic, and let the MP Josip Cikos be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u341	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, from the head of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group, you have heard clear and precise views on the issue of the motion for a decision to call a referendum. At this point, when the territorial integrity of our country is in some way threatened, we in the Serbian Renewal Movement are seeking to think as to the end of serious and responsible people, not as cheap demagogues. For this very reason, however, we should say this: regardless of the outcome of the referendum, all according to our country's binding legal and political decisions will be made and fully accountable to the political authority in Serbia, therefore, by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and above all by the newly formed Government of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, Serbian citizens, as constitutional and political sovereign, do not take over any political-legal responsibility in the upcoming referendum, nor can they take any kind of political-legal responsibility at all. It must be, I think, quite clear. Because citizens don't make direct political moves, they don't formulate a strategy, and they don't run negotiations. They as a political notion are not in a position to make compromises and agreements. In line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia is creating, leading and implementing our state policy. We, as MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, too, want the government to do this part of its work quite honestly in the most meaningful way. But at one time we say, there must be no and there must be no cover-up behind the referendum's results, there must be no and there must be no political cowardice or empty demagogy about it. With these positions, we, as MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, will particularly carefully evaluate and appreciate the future moves of our government and determine ourselves towards them. Because I guess it is finally quite clear that the state interests of Serbia, and the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a matter of rank and importance, no one can improvise or foreigner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u342	Thank you. There is a word from the MP of the people, Chikos Josip, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u343	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, it is difficult to say something different now when we approach the fundamental problem of Kosovo and Metohija less - more agreeable - and most here in the hall and of course, and most of our citizens that this problem is the internal issue of Serbia and that we have the right to solve it ourselves. Two key ideas for solving problems are evident, and they are in the initiative of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Slobodan Milosevic: firstly, expressing the will of citizens, and secondly, dialogue in the interest of all those living in Kosovo and Metohija. So, as has already been said here, there can be no more democratic way to get out of this situation, to start solving the problem in a way that is only acceptable and which, I would say, is only possible. We will check through the referendum the will of the citizens, confirm our commitment and show the world that the citizens and how they know what they want, that no one can destroy that desire for freedom, for independence, for dignity and perhaps for the world incomprehensible, for the relationship we have with our country. There is an opinion that we are inclined to divide and highlight what divides us, but there are times when we unite, when we must unite to preserve what is most valuable. Every citizen of ours needs and will now decide his fate, his country, what he will leave to his children, what kind of state he will live in, and I am convinced that the answer will be one possible. These are moments when only those who do not see the meaning of their existence, whose interests are elsewhere outside this country and in the service of some others, so only they can work against the interests of their own country and its future. We are a civil state and all civil rights equally have and can achieve national minorities. The best example, as already stated here today, is an example of Vojvodina, where we are living among 26 national minorities, and where we live together, we get along well, we solve problems, and why can't we now live in Kosovo and Metohija as well? Why shouldn't Albanians now exercise their rights that are constitutionally guaranteed? However, let them accomplish, but only those who suit them. But it takes dialogue, a patient conversation, a lot of talks to first accept the state in which they live, to begin with the exercise of the rights of Albanians as citizens of this country, the rights guaranteed to them. This readiness for dialogue must be shown by Albanians. So, if the only possible acceptable solution to co-existence approaches, agrees, because separatism and terrorism are not the path that leads to dialogue, they can't even solve these problems, they can't lead to this acceptable and mutual life. And as far as the international community is concerned, I think they'll have to accept that haystacks can go by imposing solutions and someone's will, that the state can't just split up and disintegrate when someone comes to mind. This must be left to those who are fatally bound to live together and find a solution and turn to their common future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u344	Thank you. There is a word from the MP, Dr Radoslav Jovic, and let the MP Ljuan Koka be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u345	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, if we are gathered here today in this most significant home of the Republic of Serbia to say our word as serious people, representatives of the people, about the most important state and national interests, in this case we also have an obligation to take full account of all possible consequences of the decision we are about to make today. So, if we accept the fact that the referendum is sometimes necessary and necessary, and especially on issues that deeply affect the interests of the state and the people, as is true today in the matter of Cosmeta, then we need to be principled and responsible, clearly define what we mean by the referendum, and how we can ensure that this act of declaring citizens is indeed a democratic act. In that case, the outcome of the referendum will be accepted by the citizens themselves. They will see it as a true act of taking part of responsibility for what will happen. This outcome will also be binding on us who are the owners of the government in this country, especially for the government that will carry out the operational measures. On the other hand, preparing itself for a referendum and implementing it according to the highest standards of the world's developed democracies will give the relevant force to the referendum's outcome in its legitimacy to the domestic and world public. Therefore, I propose to you, dear colleagues and colleagues, as follows: 1. That the Serbian Parliament immediately asks all the media in this country, and especially the state, to unblock themselves, to immediately open a public debate in which the Kosovo problem and what it means for our people and our country will be seen as comprehensively as possible. The word, first of all, should be given to mental and professional people, historians, ethnologists, lawyers, economists, representatives of the church, cultural workers, representatives of Serbs with Cosmet, as well as representatives of national minorities in this country. It's just like this simple man who's been feeling all the trouble on his shoulders for a long time, and what's gotten us through the past few years, will be able to look at the essence of the problem that's ahead of us all, to decide what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's behind it is taking part of the responsibility for our common destiny. The issue of Cosmeta is at the moment a historic, state and national issue of Serbia of top importance. As such, it simply imposed a court not to be allowed, nor can it be associated with the politics of any political party or person. It is our common national issue and the issue of all citizens living in Serbia and at no cost should be misused to collect petty political points. On this issue, we are all taking a maturity test in front of history, and that is why all the campaigns, which are currently being conducted on the media, are essentially nothing more than ground-based marketing, which becomes a negation of the very ideas of the referendum and the lofty goals of the state and the nations that are being set in the context of the very act of declaration and decision-making by the people. So, in front of the eyes of the world and the local public, all of this needs to be done to make sure that there are also issues in the state of Serbia and the Serbian people about which there are no unfortunate divisions. 2. I also propose that the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the federal states, take a number of appropriate measures. a) to go into a general diplomatic offensive and to interpret to the world what is the minimum of our national and national interests, under which we cannot and cannot go at any cost and that there are clear reasons for that. Serbia's President, Mr Minutovic, would have to find a way to establish contact with representatives of the major forces, to seek common interests in the Balkans to find points of reference and a foothold that will support Serbia and its citizens in their efforts to solve their vital and existential problems. b) The competent authorities must also move towards accelerated democratic reforms of the political and economic system, so that concrete measures and moves can be legitimateised both in front of the world and in front of their citizens, that they are ready to accept modern democratic standards, recognised and adopted in Europe and the world. At this, democratic and reformal course, we will make new friends in the world, restore some of the old and rightly ask them to support us. So we must do everything possible to preserve the dignity of the nation and the state and avoid the worst variant, imposing re-, sharp, economic and political sanctions on the international community. However, if, despite everything we do, sanctions are imposed, the government must welcome them ready. It must take a number of appropriate measures, which would be clearly defined in the programme, aimed at maximum protection of the population from even greater unwarranted decomposition, unwarranted wealth on other people's torture, from crime in all forms of occurrence. Solidarity must be affirmed to the highest degree. No one must be hungry and thirsty, naked and barefoot, without any roof over their heads, and no one must lose his life because of lack of medication. All these measures will restore trust in an ordinary man, restore the sense of security and make it easier to face all the consequences of the decisions we make. c) It is certainly the most important that we come into negotiations with the Kosovo Albanians with fair intentions, to offer on a clear state platform possible modes of solving all those problems affecting the position of the minority and each of its members. If we do this fairly and wisely, sticking to the highest standards that exist in Europe and the world and offering ourselves that Serbian-Albanian dialogue should be conducted in front of the face of the international public, clearly, without imposing a solution on the part of the country, then all those who prepare the noose for the cosmetic problem will soon disarm themselves. These are hard times. For what we do today and what we will do tomorrow we will be responsible, first of all, in front of our children and our grandchildren. If we have the strength to rise above narrow political and ideological interests, if we look at all the parameters today, we will make fewer mistakes tomorrow. This is a time when Serbia needs to gather minds and wisdom, a time in which good must overcome evil, and the truth is a lie, and that will happen if we are spiritually strong to accept someone else's opinion, if for a moment at least we bury all those trenches that have divided us and torn apart our national being for decades. Let us make Serbia a land of spiritual and material abundance, let every man in it feel free, safe, happy and contented. It will be our best defense against all Separatisms, social deviations, untruths and injustices. It's the only way to regain the full meaning of the word patriotism. We no longer have the right to mistakes. Serbia is eternal, and we are transient. May God help us on this path to solving our vital, state and national problems, on the path of recovery and restoration of our country and our return to the ranks of recognized and dignified states and nations of the Holy Lord God.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u346	There's a word from the People's Messenger, Ljuan Koka.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u347	Dear President, honourable MPs, to me, as a national MP, a representative from the territory of the southern province, it is very important that the historic and fateful process of the People's Declaration was launched by a referendum, on the initiative of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, and this is a strategic moment to reject a foreign factor from meddling in the internal issue of a country, and the integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian-Yugoslavia state is sublimed. People's will, the support of all Serbian citizens that Kosovo and Metohija is part of Serbia, that Kosovo and Metohija, from the existence of the Serbian state, is part of it, that Kosovo and the cradle of the Serbian state, culture and spirituality and that, therefore, the internal issue of Serbia is to us citizens of the southern province, our families and children means huge support and guarantee that it will remain that way. The referendum is a chance to vote to defend this part of Serbia, not with weapons, I do not have to explain it to the Serbs as a member of the national minority, but the existence of Serbia is in fact a constant struggle for independence, freedom and dignity of this people and this state. Kosovo and Metohija, as a multiethnic, multicultural and multi-complex environment, sees their only perspective, freedom and dignity within Serbia. The referendum must clearly show the international community that Serbia is ready to co-operate, but as a partner, not as a slave. The international community would like to repeat in a very short time another scenario -- that a sovereign country is being crushed, crushed, as civil war and victims are being caused. Internationalization and mediation is the first stage in all of this. Why is the international community disobeying the clear demands of Albanian political party leaders on Kosovo's independence. As a method of achieving this goal, terrorism can best be discussed by the members of the Contact Group and other European countries themselves, and how they deal with it. For example, Great Britain in Ireland, France in Corsica, Spain in Baska, Italy that has so many terrorist groups. It is clear that the international community has completely different arches to this evil, when it comes to the Balkans, and especially Serbia. The international community would like to see terrorism and violence as a struggle for human rights. We watched that movie once. There are 150 thousand Roma living in Kosovo and Metohija, and they enjoy all civil rights and freedoms according to much higher standards than Europe rules. Roma living in Kosovo and Metohija since the time of Emperor Dusan, as well as Muslims, Turks, want their will to be respected by the international community, when they talk about the rights of national minorities, when they talk about Albanians and when they talk about Kosovo and Metohija. In Serbia, there is the oldest cultural event of Roma in the world, which brings together twenty cultural and artistic societies from all over Serbia each year. From Serbia, for the first time, television broadcasts in Roma are broadcast to the world, and today there are 15 television or radio Roma directories. Roma children are allowed in Kosovo and Metohija to learn Roma language and history as a university subject in education, which is unique in the world. In 1935, a list was published in the Roma language in Belgrade, and today, in addition to the papers published by associations and individuals, there is a list in the Roma language, which is funded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The top executives in the world organisation of Roma are just the people from Serbia. They're facts and they're saying enough. Roma use all their rights, but also their obligations -- they serve a military deadline, they go to elections, the census, the referendum, and when it comes to the state. Serbia is also perceived as well as its own country. All other problems they have, from their status to social care, want to be resolved in the authorities and institutions of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Today, in Kosovo and Metohija, we do not know the exact number of Roma. But not only them, but also the Muslims, and the Turks. Many are now experiencing their national awakening and realize that they were attached to Albanian hegemonism and assimilation. There are people today who don't know what they are anymore, so they plead as former Albanians. In programmes and statements by Albanian party leaders, as if no one else exists in Kosovo and Metohija except Albanians. There are no Roma, no Muslims, no Turks, no Gorans. Such a dictatorship also accepts the international community. They talk about the threatened rights of Albanians, Albanians are in fact boycotting one part of these rights, but the other part is benefiting actively -- property rights, pensions, social rights, employment rights, free movement and private business. Eighty to ninety per cent of businesses and capital in Kosovo and Metohija are being held by Albanians. They are firmly linked to private and capital in Serbia. That doesn't bother them. In Belgrade, there is a large percentage of Albanians, who use all their constitutional and civil rights. It is important for me to do so on the one hand, which is to separate the leaders and parties from one side and the other from the Albanian people. That is why the referendum is another chance for people, for citizens of Serbia to say that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and that there is no mediation in Kosovo and Metohija independence. A dialogue can be opened about everything else. Serbia is ready for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u348	There's a word from MP Zoran Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u349	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have an obligation to present before you here, as a representative of the Raška District, a district in which the pillars of Serbian spirituality and Serbian statehood are located, to ask the citizens of Serbia to make a decent, democratic statement at the referendum. It is our sovereignty, our right and our obligation to decide for ourselves. The Raski district is a district where citizens of Serbia live, but not only Serbs, but also Muslims, Turks and Roma, and others, live together from their work, to provide their children, their families with a happier and better life. That's how the people of Raška County want a peaceful, happy and safe life for the citizens of Kosovo. I am convinced that the citizens of my district in the referendum will say -- no, to outside enemies, but also to say -- no, and to those who would also turn this district black. Dear fellow Members of the People, I am obliged to say this because of my king, the kings that the evildoers wanted to destroy, they took his youth, they took his soul, they shot his mothers, they shot his children, they shot the peasants, they shot the workers, they shot over six thousand of my citizens and the citizens of my king. They didn't take our soul, we still live, much less numbers, than that those who desire evil didn't destroy us the way they wanted us to. My Serbia is a civil state. It will no longer be shared by the state, if necessary, to defend itself, and will be defended by the citizens of Serbia, as the constitution is brief and clear, unequivocally speaking. The traitors of this Serbia have been around for centuries, there are also here, there are them outside, but they must remember one -- do they remember having a birth, and for their birth the greatest curse is treason. So, Serbian citizens, vote as democraticly as you think you should, show everyone that your right, and no one else's right, is to defend and plead to your Serbia, because that's true democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u350	He has the word Minister Rada Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u351	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and address you. I am so happy that there are hardly any serious political parties on the political scene of Serbia that Kosovo and Metohija see beyond Serbia's borders. I'm sorry, and I think it would be the only difference, if a small part thought that it should and would be desirable for Kosovo and Metohija to decide on the side. I will try to explain why we cannot allow foreign tutors to come to us and resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Don't think that the US Information Centre, located in downtown Pristina, is involved in culture. They're here, legally speaking, to deal with spy business. And I can tell you that they know perfectly what the situation is in Kosovo and Metohija. All foreigners know that the 1974 Constitution, the Constitution, until the people happened, created 700 ethnically clean settlements. You know, we all know that in 1974, the Constitution of the Serbs from that space experienced the largest exodus in Europe in recent history. No one mentions that exodus. At that time, I went to college with proportion 4:1 to get a job was already a proportion of 10:1. They killed Serb civilians, seized property, spread in an illegal manner, and reproduced in an unnatural way, all in order and with one task of winning the Serbian state's space. Today, don't think they don't know what's going on on Drenice. It is not true that Serbia and Serbian police are shooting at the civilian population at Drenica. It is true, and the whole world knows that the civilian population is being abused by Albanian terrorists by holding it as a shield. They did it in the Drenica and always time when important decisions are made. That was before the Contact Group meeting. Just before the Security Council meeting, they staged new terrorist attacks on police in Decan. I say, whenever it takes an important decision to take it beyond the borders of our country. But here they were smarter, first they pulled the civilian population, and then the police, who patrolled, so they didn't go into the raid, they didn't go into action, they just shot at the police car that was going through the village. It was again the "aggression" of Serbs and the Serbian state against Albanians. To tell you the truth, for the next meeting on April 25th, I expect again a few bumps in Kosovo and Metohija, Albanian terrorists, who are perpetrators and whose brains are in fact Rugova and the clan around him, will prepare something else, perhaps something more difficult, again, by sacrificing my civilian population to achieve their goals. Don't think that Drenica has become since the Serbian government was in that territory. She was Drenica in 1981. In 1981, federal police officers were killed in Drenica. The drain is their engine, their strength and their simple drive of all secessions. Dear colleagues, Albanians, giving an interview, said their terrorists have three operating areas. They declared Kosovo and Metohija as one zone. For the second zone of Macedonia, and the third zone, they didn't want to find out. I hear Belgrade analysts say the third zone is reportedly in Belgrade. No, Albanians are looking for logistics. They're by the nature of cowardice and they're looking for protection. The third zone of their operation is most likely Montenegro. They will not now, in this period, potentiate it, counting on Milo Djukanovic's politics, as America is something with it, so they do not deliberately mention Montenegro. Their plan, of course, is what we all know, both Serbia and Macedonia and Montenegro, what they wrote. I'm terribly sorry, to tell you the truth, when I hear or read that some Belgrade newspaper almost writes worse than "Botara" does, rather than "Piaja" does. If there's something sacred we need to unite around, then it's Kosovo and Metohija. I am sorry when I hear the same from some political groups from Montenegro, Montenegrins will not join the army in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, Montenegrins are already with Serbians in Kosovo and Metohija. A million Montenegrins are already in Serbia. I cannot do such irresponsible things, which cause defetism among Serbs in that space, which so negatively affect a little of what's left down there, to be given. It is unfair for Montenegro to talk about any province and any resolution of Kosovo and Metohija in a way that would not suit Serbs in Serbia. How about we say in Boka Kotorska give autonomy to Croatia, or give Blue and Gusine to Albanians. We should always have a beat and have an understanding for each other. I will tell you from here, when it comes to the referendum, I would call, I would not call, but I would ask the citizens of Serbia to come out as much as possible. They can deny us that referendum now. The power of numbers, the power of the size of the people who go to the elections, will mean a lot to the world. If a number comes out that will be great, and I hope so, then our enemies will understand how sacred Kosovo and Metohija is for Serbs and the Serb people. The power of the numbers will allow if they come after us, it would be aggression. So I'm saying, I'm not really calling this moment from this Serbian pay phone, but I'm asking as many people as possible to come to the referendum and say no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u352	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Selic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, although I do not read my speeches in principle, the seriousness of today's session of the Serbian Parliament requires of all of us the ultimate responsibility for every spoken word. So I'm going to read my thoughts. Before I say anything about the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, I have an obligation as a man and an MP for the SPO in the Serbian Parliament to highlight the fact that I spent part of my life in Kosovo and Metohija. There I was born and many of my ancestors built their lives, honor and property into this sacred Serbian country. But without these personal emotions, I must stress that everything I have learned in my life, which has formed me as a human, as a member of the Serbian people and a convinced European, is about that cradle of our spirituality, our statehood and our existence. Our troubled people, likely, would not exist today, would have fallen under the harsh five-year Turkish rule if it hadn't been for the spiritual origin of our survival and our resistance, Kosovo and Metohija, or old Serbia. With historical circumstances, and above all, as a result of our tragic communist past and the devastating functioning of the Cominterna, whose goal was to break and destroy the Serbian state and state, today we have a state which, both as a people and as people, we have to resolve. Thanks to a continued separatist policy of the Cypriot national minority in Kosovo and Metohija since the Prizren League of the beginning of this century, as well as the international circumstances created after the collapse of the SFRY, the Cypriot national minority today does not really want to negotiate with the state of Serbia, with which it should regulate and discuss all issues concerning their cultural and national rights. All this is done in the hope that the European countries and the United States will have an understanding of their separatist goals. Some statements by the representatives of those countries give them the encouragement that they will achieve their goals, so I must ask one logical question. If European countries and the United States are trying to create a multiethnic community in the spirit of Dayton in Bosnia, to return Serb refugees to the Croatian state, what is the full understanding of the SPO, how is it possible that in the case of the Serbian state they have other principles? The Cypriot national minority must have cultural and human rights according to the highest European standards, but within the framework of the Serbian state, thanks to which the national minority has experienced its greatest cultural, national and economic prosperity. Therefore, as an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement, I will give my vote for the referendum, first of all bearing in mind the firm position of the Serbian Renewal Movement that the state of Serbia is one and indivisible and that there is room for all national minorities, who should seek with the Serbian majority roads for democratic, economic, political and political prosperity of all groups and all individuals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the Serbian state, God's right. The Serbian state is on the side of both law and justice. On the side of the Shiptarists, there is only the Spanish right, contained in the proverb: "Whose sheep on the mountain of the grass, that is also the mountain." If this human rights were to become a social right, our civilization would face problems that would push modern worldly achievements back centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u354	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, I want to tell you that I received a letter from the Yugoslav Army General Staff, which I would like to read to you. The letter reads: "Mr. President, I am speaking to you about the claims that have been heard today about a Assembly speaker in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (pronounced by MP Dragan Vesenov), that half of the weapons were destroyed in the Yugoslav Army, and that there is also no armored battalion in the northern part of Vojvodina. I would like to inform you and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that such claims have been devoid of any basis. In fact, international agreements have regulated the proportions of the country's military force in the region, with the SR Yugoslavia fully owns a receptive force in all three types of military, in line with its needs. In the northern part, Vojvodina, as well as in the entire territory of the SR Yugoslavia, the unit schedule of the Yugoslav Army has not been changed. The Yugoslav Army is able to defend every part of the state territory of the SR Yugoslavia. Yugoslav Army General Staff" There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov, who wants to give the replica. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u355	It is likely possible for us to read letters that arrive during the session of the congregation. It's not bad that the General Staff called and said this. It is extremely good that he said this in order to separate doubts from what was done with the Dayton Agreement. But it would have been much better if anyone from the General Staff had come here, first of all the President of the Republic, to tell us what was really done after the Dayton Agreement. It's true that one part of our weaponry has been destroyed. It would be good if our people knew what was done under that agreement. We're not giving up on our claims. We appreciate the general staff's claims, but let them give us clear figures.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u356	There's a word from MP Veroljub Stevanovic. There is no preparation of Shemsudin Kučević.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, not on behalf of the Serbian Renewal Movement, but on behalf of Serbian and American history, in the name of Serbs and Americans, who fought together in two world wars, we are constantly expecting today's people, and with the right to pay due attention to the following facts. First, Kosovo gained more than the status of the republic with Tito's octrossed 1974 constitution. This god-awful province had its constitution and the Kosovo parliament was sovereignly passing all the laws. Serbia had no right to object. At the same time, Parliament and the government of Serbia could not have passed any law unanimity between the Kosovo Parliament and the Vojvodina Parliament, its other province, not to say states. Despite such a privileged position, Albanians rebelled and demanded full independence. This means that their extreme political leadership has never been the goal of meeting the degree of autonomous rights in Serbia, but only the secession from Serbia. Secondly, Serbia's Constitution of 1989 abolished the province's autonomy, but the forced administration of Kosovo and Vojvodina over Serbia was abolished. The extreme political leadership of Kosovo Albanians has made a decision on the boycott of all autonomous rights and the state of Serbia, openly declaring independence and secession as their goal. Thirdly, we are ready to discuss some additional autonomous rights within Serbia and in line with the highest democratic standards of Europe. It's undeniable. Only, we do not allow the destruction of our country in the same way and with the same right as Americans do not allow the destruction of their country. Fourthly, on behalf of which, in principle, some senior representatives of the United States openly declare that Kosovo's status must be resolved outside Serbia? Those aren't Thomas Jefferson's principles. For this great American, whom Serbs respect, democracy and equal rights for all people were the basics of everything. For Mr. Rugova, who is represented as a lover of Jefferson's great state and nation, the basis of everything is racism, or ethnically pure state in Kosovo. I want American friends to understand that being for Mr. Rugova's principles means being against the principles and foundations on which the American state and American democracy rest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u358	Thank you. He has the word of Ambassador Shemsudin Kučević. Let the MP of Slavisa Mladenovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the list for Sandzak - Sulejman Ugljanin, to state my position on the calling of a Republic referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Right at the beginning, I'm against calling this referendum. I think it's unconstitutional and counterproductive. If the referendum is called, our party will call on fellow citizens not to go to the referendum. As for some of the things we've heard here, and for those suffering from amnesia, I'm going to remind you of some of the things that have been written and that can't be forgotten, and they've happened in the past eight years. First, after the break-up of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in July 1991, a Peace Conference on the former Yugoslavia, based in The Hague, was formed. Then, from 26th to 28th August 1992, at a meeting in London, the champions of the International Conference of Obavi Yugoslavia, based in Geneva, which took over (which is very important) the commitment and status of the newly established republican areas of the former Yugoslavia and the status of all peoples in those republics - the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is an active participant (about which we will agree) in the formation of the International Conference, where the issue of Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been resolved. The issue of the SR of Yugoslavia has not been resolved yet, nor has its international legal status been officially defined. The issue of Kosovo is just one of the unresolved issues, which, like all others, need to be resolved in the continuity of the international conference. There are still questions of Sandzak and Vojvodina... (dispute of MPs), as well as a failure to resolve the Bosniak people, Albanian, Croatian, Hungarian and other peoples living in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Secondly, the future of Europe is certainly in the united European countries, such as the United States. It is our desire for the SR Yugoslavia to become a member of the community of European countries and members of the UN. In this respect, it is necessary to insist on international intervention, in order to address all outstanding issues in the SR Yugoslavia, in line with European and world principles, in order to use their help in creating democratic institutions and to create time-constraints for the accession of European countries' communities and the wider international community. All in order to get international support in terms of credit and other benefits for economic recovery, to get out of poverty and poverty and to be able to live freely with passports, which we have, without any visas, travel to other countries, trade, hire and live freely from our work and our abilities. The people want to live, work and make money. The condition for this is respect for international standards, primarily respect for the human, minority and national rights of all nations in this country. All that must be guaranteed by the constitution and law, in a way that every individual can exercise his rights. Therefore, it should primarily be advocated to form a constitutional congregation. The people cannot be promised admission to the international community, and without reason by calling the referendum they defy the international community. Third, it is hypocritical to call a referendum for an alleged examination of the free will of citizens, when the regime stepped down the election will of citizens, expressed in the November elections in 1996. In Novi Pazar, the electoral will of citizens was particularly affected on July 10th 1997, when, with the threat and use of force, the rule of law was suspended and the classical dictatorship was established, which is still ongoing. The anti-refusing and anti-cancer decision of the Serbian government, signed by Mr Ratko Markovic, replaced the complete leadership of Novi Pazar, which won citizens' confidence in the November 3rd elections and introduced a forced administration of nine SPS and JUL members, who did not receive vote confidence. On the contrary, they are known as people, who have ruined businesses and institutions, whose leadership they have led for years. After the disintegration of the former SFRY constitutional and legal status of Bosniak people in SR Yugoslavia has yet to be resolved... (inappropriate MPs) Over the past seven years, the terror of the ruling regime over Bosniaks in Sandzak and other parts of the SRJ has occasionally taken the genocide situation. The consequences of such terror over Bosniaks are a large number of killed, kidnapped, missing, refugees, displaced persons, burned and otherwise destroyed housing and business facilities (disaster). Nothing's been solved yet, and we were obliged to do so. These and other unresolved issues, which the state is responsible for, rather than calling a referendum, must be addressed from the burning problems in the name of the People's Democracy, thereby transferring all responsibility for poverty and poverty to and such a poor people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u360	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to react to Mr. Kučević's exposure, not as much as the Deputy Prime Minister, as I must act as Bosniak. I'm Bosniak, I was born in Sarajevo. Mr. Kucevic may never have seen Sarajevo. He may have looked at Bosnia in the barrels, he might have been on a field trip, maybe he was on TV seeing Bosnia. Now all of a sudden he's talking about some Bosniaks. That's me, I'm called. In Serbia lives a million or two, maybe three million, Bosniaks. And the Bosniaks were always Serbs. Bosnia was a Serbian state. As a Serbian king, the company coronated in the Milesh monastery at the tomb of St. Sava. Now you're bringing up a new theory about Bosniaks. (Glass: he has no idea. Laughing in the O.R. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny. This is tragic. Listen, Bosniaks! And he's a Bosniak now! Let's say Iroquez said the Papuana, I kind of understand. Well, there are Egyptians, now I hear, with us. Now he's Bosniak, Bosnia hasn't seen, tomorrow he'll say he's Martian, he's Japanese, who knows what's gonna happen to him. Well, a man's got a lot on his mind. He's suddenly asking for his confession and some special rights, he wants the state! He wants Sandzak, he says, to split. There were many Sandzaks in the area of today's Serbia. Which Sandzak do you mean, Mr. Dog? There's a lot of Sandzaks. Maybe you mean New Market? Well, his status changed many, many years ago, almost 100 years ago. It is no longer part of Turkey, Sandzak was, while he was part of Turkey, now it is not and will never be again. Second, of course, there is a certain percentage of the population of Muslim religion in the Raška region. No one in Serbia is questioning the full equality of that creed, but do not abuse the religious feelings of your neighbours, your relatives, your friends, your acquaintances, the people you live with in the Raska area and lead them to evil. One of your ideological followers has caused such an evil in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. Don't repeat that in the Raska area. It won't end well, especially it won't be good for you, who try it. It is better for you to live with peace, that no one touches your religious feelings, and no one will touch them for sure, because Orthodox Serbs are in both religious and national and ideological terms very, very tolerant people and have never questioned anyone's religion. No one was challenged if he lived a decent man's life, if he acted normally and didn't take offense to the state. Don't touch the state, because the state defends itself with sabers and will defend itself with sabers if it is threatened. You have many there, relatively nice lives. We can't get into this terrible crisis and say we're doing just fine. You live relatively well, don't let it all get thrown under your feet. And don't agree to Albanian separatists. Your close relatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina have been used by Croats. We warned both in 1990 and 1991, don't, don't agree with the Croats, evil will break out, and your head will be broken. And that's how it happened. Citizens of Muslim religion in the area of the former Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered the most objectively in this war, as their leadership allowed it to be manipulated by Tudjman's authority. Don't let the Muslims living in the Raski area manipulate you and be someone else's means of dealing with the Serb people and the Serbian state. These Western forces that encourage you are ready to fight Serbs to the last Muslim, ready to fight Serbs to the last Albanian, and they will not come here alone to bleed. Maybe once in a while by air, but that's all. They will not die, and they would like to turn you against Serbia, against the Serb people, they would like you to bleed out so that some corruption and some damage to Serbia will do. And this isn't just a warning to you. It's also a warning to Albanians. Smart in the head! In good words, we can make a deal. Constitutional rights, full equality, will never be questioned. It is a consensus that exists in all political parties in Serbia. But the government, territorial integrity, sovereignty, will cost anyone who dares to do so dearly. Another government has made a decision to establish temporary measures or forced administrations in Novi Pazar. A new government has now entered into force, but this new government too justifies all these measures. Because local authorities can't act as if the state in the state - from ideological symbols, from suppressing the Serbian flag and introducing your party flag, and beyond, to abuse in the capacity of municipal land and a whole series of violations of legal norms. If that authority had functioned normally, if it had carried out what was its constitutional and legal jurisdiction, no one would have questioned it. If I were right, the best testimony is that, let's say, there are a number of municipalities in Vojvodina where the Hungarian national minority's party -- the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians -- that the Slovaks rule in Bačka Petrovac, that no one has thought of seducing a forced administration there, because they are normally acting, being fulfilled -- someone more successful, someone less successful -- legal duties, obligations, do not violate the Constitution, do not violate legal norms, and why would it bother someone if in some midst members of a certain national minority had a majority in a certain municipality, to be generally represented in the bodies of local authorities. No one's mind if it's a normal situation, if everyone's obeying the law. What you insist, Mr. Kučević, on foreign interference, on internationalisation, as it is often said, cannot bring any benefit to the Muslims living in the Rasko area. There's no Bosniaks there. Maybe there's some. There isn't. Don't say that. How will you convince me now that you are Bosniak and I am not Bosniak? Come on, make sure. How?- I'm sorry. I was born in Sarajevo, my father from Herzegovina, my mother from Herzegovina, and you didn't even see Bosnia and now you're Bosniak, and I'm not Bosniak. How?- I'm sorry. (One voice from the O.R.: maybe it was in the war.) He may have been at war, as Mr. Bija says. That's the only way. And don't get carried away by the team. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] It's not working. Do not today on your religious holiday of Kurban Bajram, which is a day of style, the day of repairing disturbed neighbourly relations, which is a day of love, as your faith requires, do not today sharpen the atmosphere and in the National Assembly and do not in front of the public, in front of the entire Serbian public to make a bad impression, because some people may conclude that all Muslims in the Raška region think as you do. And they don't, because the vast majority don't fight, they don't bleed underpants for Western forces. They are aware that they have nothing to lose and no one is sacrificed by family or cities or villages for other people's accounts. They'd like to live with peace and live with peace, if we don't let anyone bring evil blood. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u362	He has the word National MP Slavisa Mladenovic And you're looking for a replica. [[One voice: replica!]] I didn't see you. National MP Shemsudin Kučević is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u363	I don't want to do replicas here much. It was only here that I was surprised by the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister that he advocated violence to solve the problems that exist in the Republic. We sacrificed power in 1992 and 1993, we didn't want to go to elections because we knew that in a war environment anything could happen to the people in Sandzak. In 1996, when the conditions of the war environment ceased, we went to elections to participate in the institutions of the system. And we've entered the institutions of the system, and with sticks and beatings we've been expelled from these institutions. And the Albanian people are called on to enter the system's institutions. Look, there's one very important thing here -- we can deceive some people for a while, but we'll never be able to do it all the time and all the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u364	There is a word from the MP Slavisa Mladenovic, and let the MP Mihajlović Mile be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, after a gentleman, reportedly a Bosniak from the New Market in the Raska region, it is very easy to explain to the Serbian people why he should be attending a referendum in two weeks and say "no" decisively. Because in addition to all the bitter experiences we have of our eternal enemies of Catholics, you should not be remembered this last year, war years from 1991 to the year before, all what the criminal hand of Catholics did to us Serbs in western Serbian countries, you should not let them do to us with our cradle, with Kosovo and Metohija. [[Applause]] A while ago, I was told by people who, in the postwar period in the Raška region, were in Muslim and Serbian homes of St. Nicholas' icon, the largest Serb glory. You know what those old men were saying when they asked where St. Nicholas's icon was in the Muslim house? The ancients said that their ancestors had given an amannet not to forget who they came from and that maybe the time would come when they would return to the Serb wing again. However, thanks to one ideology, in one period of time, everything has been done to ensure that not only that part of the Serb people, who confesses another faith, we lose looks permanent. However, no one in this country has defended anyone's religion. It is only an obligation for all Serbian citizens to, in addition to those rights they selflessly use, make a contribution to the development of democracy and defence of the Serbian state. One municipality is a mixed national population, so Medvedja, about 40% of the population are Shipari, and these days I've been going around that area and I can tell you, the message of these people, from that space, and the entire population of the Jablanic district, in at least 90% of the population of the Jablani County will go to the referendum and say "no" to criminals who have caused us great damage.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u366	Thank you. There is a word from MP Mile Mihajlovic, and let the National MP Petrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u367	Mr. President, honourable MPs, as a man from Kruševac and Rasin County, with respect for all MPs and their right to speak of their country, our country at this fateful moment, because it is actually about the future, the fundamental right of the children of this country, to have their country, their country -- it seems to me that history has given me certain advantages that others do not have, but because of the mutual association of Kruševac and Kosovo. I am in a dilemma whether to give a speech to the beginning of our past or to the present; whether our past was our future; was that how we were meant to be, then and now, forever or forever? Let me first explain why in my opinion Kruševac has a small place above, and besides others. I'm going to give you three moments that are related to today's topic. Kruševac, respected friends, because of the great activities in the field of peace in this eternal struggle of the Serbian people for peace, dignity, their own and others, for the protection of the weaker, although I am weak, for respect of others and for the protection of my faith, is the only winner of the world's two highest recognitions of the United Nations for the contribution to world peace and peace in general. Only 76 cities in the world have received recognition of "The Vesnik of Peace", and Kruševac is the only one and the medal of peace and, as such, is a member of the Executive Bureau and the NGO association of the cities of winners of recognition and has expressed international activity. As in the typical Serbian city, the United Nations charters, the work of good people, have easily found life in our space. However, we are witnessing the trampling of the Charter of, for now, world powers. If the mighty and the stronger don't fight for the principles, the dictatorships will lead the world into disaster. But Kruševac has always done and is now doing everything he can on the plan of tolerance, community, progress, solidarity, equality, not giving up on the Charter. Kruševac is in a triangle with St. Andreja, Krf and Kiriat gat, three cities, two of which have a very important meaning for the Serbian people and Serbia. We all know that St. Andrew is bound to Charnojevic, one of the greatest exoduss of the Serbian people; Corfu - for the googoth and the people, but also for the states, which is unrecorded in the history of mankind; Kiriath Gat is a city in Israel, where, according to legend, there has been a struggle between David and Goliath. Who won? Any winners? Did David have a chance? Why did he fight? What is it that made him fight? Isn't that an indication to everyone that belief in the right goals, and what isn't to the harm of others, brings a certain victory. Does he say all this about us and Serbia before and today? Kruševac has such connections today, but they are also mythic ties, talking about fate, talking about general existence and survival. Kruševac was the capital of Serbia in the 14th century. Because of events that are directly linked, which have gone into myth and legend, Kruševac and Kosovo, Lazarica, Lazarica, the church, heroes and the least of the time, in defending Serbia, Serbia, faith, essentially Europe, fully aware of what they are doing - in defense of the house, thresholds, humanity, hope, their children, their country. They were defending us - are we aware of that? Aren't we at the same turning point now? Of course, generations behind have also contributed to defending honor and dignity, land and people. We in our country, at our home -- and so on and so on, never on another country -- have come to the point of sanctifying, the outcome of the history of the Serbian people -- Kosovo and Metohija -- we defend, first of all, with truth, peace, dialogue and universal declaration, because this is a question, not only for the present, but for the future generations of Serbian citizens. The international community, despite historical and factual truths, through sovereign rights of states and peoples -- the dictatorship, blackmail and all means of discouragement of hope -- is doing everything, by owning the world and its political and legal institutions -- to bend and humiliate those who defend the right to humanity. The act is a policy of naked force towards the Serbian people, one of the bravest, peaceful, tolerateable people, one of the most national-performing nations in the history of rights and statehood. It is now clear to all of us that Yugoslavia has, by the way, been torn apart and that the real goal has always been Serbia. A referendum by citizens of the Republic of Serbia should decide sovereignly, democratically and freely, according to their conscience and affection, according to the ideals of justice, truth and freedom -- whether or not to accept international intermediaries in the sovereign affairs of our internal political, cultural, civil and general state being of Serbia. Serbia's citizens' decision has a historic size in the upcoming events, and I'm sure the answer will be no. Citizens of Kruševac and Rasin County think so. Our friends in the world know well that we are in our house, that we have no others and we have nowhere to go and we don't want to go. Our brothers and exiles had a place to come -- we simply have to defend ourselves by all means. We believe in truth and justice and don't give our country. Foreign interference means not only a loss of honor, dignity and sovereignty, but certainly a loss of territory and a sure war. Our citizens know that, and I'm sure the answer will be no. As a symbol of freedom and independence, honor and dignity, faith in yourself, love for others, solidarity, respect for the past for the present and, in particular, the future of the state and future generations - in the name of all the holy ones - I brought a lump of land from the port of Lazarica. I'm not sure he's from the place of the Prince's Evening Meal, but I'm sure he was followed by the most honorable, bravest and holy people of that time, the mythical, and the real personalities of Lazar, Milice, the Jugovic brothers, Milos Obbilić. They trusted themselves and were honorable for themselves and for us. Are we going to have Brankovics now? Convinced of the unity of the MPs and of this assembly, the unity of the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people, in a negative response to a referendum on foreign interference, in a successful defence of Serbia's integrity and sovereignty, I leave the country as an additional invitation to defend honor and dignity. He loves the country's lump and gives it to the president. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u368	He has the word of the Serb MP Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u369	Dear President, honourable MPs, we have before us a proposal to call a Republic referendum and I am free to say that there is no man in Serbia who is not concerned and who is not imagined for the fate of his family and his people. Today, when we make a decision on the referendum, and on the 23rd when the people decide, we decide on the tactics of our survival, we respond to world pressures. Let our answer be: "Vox popul, vox dei" - "the voice of the people, the voice of God," what the people want, God wants. The second alternative does not exist, Kosovo and Metohija are part of the state of Serbia and all talks, proposals, decisions, will be conducted and will be made in Serbia. It wasn't, it couldn't be any different. These are our roots and there are no concessions we can do. In the end, no other state would do that. In Kosovo and Metohija, it is not about overcoming human rights. Albanian minority members have the same rights as other citizens. The problem is that they boycott these rights, under the pressure of their political leaders. The goal is to clear the secession of this Serbian territory from Serbia. The act is terrorism, which has taken more lives. It's true and the world knows it. However, those criteria that apply in the world are not applied to us. Instead of condemning terrorism, he is encouraged, only with us separatism and terrorism are justified and raised to a pedestal international problem, with inconclusive arguments. Foreign factors think they're all allowed, the problems of Alster, Tyrol and Baska solve over a hundred years, and when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, they have numerous recipes and rescue formulas. We should be a little bit more respected. They keep threatening us, and our people don't like to be threatened, they don't like to be disciplined, they don't like to be humiliated. When everything is added to our so far negative experience, that all intermediaries were favored and biased, with the aim of breaking Yugoslavia, it is clear. This is about finding a cause and a way to help secession -- the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, because it is known that Serbia would no longer be Serbia. By inserting intermediaries, the problems are not solved, but they are difficult, the fictional things create a crisis, cause instability, provide cover for the wider, including the military presence of foreign factors. That, fellow MPs, is the answer - why we will not intercede. We want to solve our problems on our own. We do not need foreign representatives to address the internal issues of problems in Kosovo and Metohija. We don't agree to internationalization. We don't give Kosovo and Metohija. We will fight against terrorism fiercely and manly. The referendum is not a substitute for dialogue. The solution is in peace, tolerance, dialogue, political means, within Serbia, according to the laws and the Serbian Constitution. We are not disobedient, but cautious with foreign representatives, and in the situation we are in, and obliged to ask the people, and it cannot be avoided. Let the people decide. Our referendum, where the voice of the people will be heard, will be to break the illusion that we expect understanding from the West. It will be a people's plea for our survival, resisting humiliation, the desire not to "in a small door" begin to take away what is ours, Kosovo and Metohija, the sacred Serbian country. The constitutionally established and legally defined legal order of the Republic of Serbia must be respected. Without it, there's no future. So the Socialists and the people of Srema support the letter of President Slobodan Milosevic to the president of Serbia, the government and the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, on the calling of a national referendum, which will show the will of the people and support our leadership in defending Serbia, its freedom and dignity. We're going to win this battle, not just a referendum, because, as the wise man says, "I know well that I can't go through, but that we can't, either, to those there or these here." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u370	There's a word from MP Ramadan Ahmeti.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u371	Dear MPs, the respected presidency, and I will say something about a referendum on behalf of Albanians Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. The referendum is unnecessary and parties that gather Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji will not call on their membership and supporters to participate in it. There is really no point in exposing itself to the expensive organisation of the referendum, when the final result is known in advance. Since the publication of the initiative by the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, public opinion has already been created in all means of official propaganda, on the basis of which any possibility of participation of an international factor in resolving Kosovo's issue is strongly anthemed. On this basis, I can conclude that it is right to claim that this referendum should serve as a cover for the policy towards Kosovo so far. This policy, according to all objective criteria, has not been correct so far because it has not produced any results. A policy that has promised a quick resolution of Kosovo's knot has resulted in the violent degradation of Kosovo's constitutional position, the introduction of temporary measures among dozens of important institutions and organisations in Kosovo, which result in tens of thousands of workers who have lost their jobs. The creation of a huge problem in Kosovo's education, which already includes an international factor, and a number of other problems in different areas of life. The current policy has put Albania's population in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji in a very difficult position, against all constitutional and legal provisions. The content of Albanian culture and history is remote from the teaching programmes, the quality of teaching in Albanian is demoted, due to very poor textbooks in primary schools and due to the lack of textbooks in secondary schools. A gymnasium in Bujanovac has been closed, an object taken from a secondary school in Bujanovac by the Yugoslav Army. Manipulations of municipal congregations in Bujanovac and Medvedja have denied Albanians the right to equal vote, so Albanians from state bodies are distant, as from local self-government authorities. I would also like to point out that I have launched a procedure for the establishment of a survey committee to investigate the case in Presevo on 5 March, when the unprecedented precedent occurred, that local self-government managers in Presevo were publicly beaten by members of the MUP, thus reaching the peak of the blocking of local self-government authorities by state authorities. Knowing that the international factor is already involved, and it is inevitable in these areas, it is far more important and necessary now to change the policy so far towards Kosovo and to bring it into line with modern democratic flows in the world. Otherwise, if the current anti-civilisation policy that results in dozens and human casualties, including a large number of women and children, continues is a very dark perspective of isolation and boycott of all international institutions and organisations and, with a lag behind, the general social economic crisis, which threatens to face a major situation.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u372	There is a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Dr Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u373	Dear MPs, I convey the message of winemakers and winemakers Zupa, which is being looked at in full support, the move by Slobodan Milosevic to ask the people about the most important issues, issues of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. He had a Serb people in his history of similar referendums. Back in the days of Emperor Lazar, when he gathered all Serbian princes and asked them about the willingness to defend Serbia and Serbia, to resist the Turkish Empire. This is a fateful moment. This is not a referendum on local self-delivery, this is a referendum defending Serbia in a legitimate and democratic way. By way of the ballot, the truth defends itself from lying and planting, so before we know what kind of torture our people were exposed to five years ago by imposing sanctions. A long time ago, masks fell off the faces of those who broke the former Yugoslavia. Masks fell from the faces of those who imposed the most brutal sanctions in mankind's history, masks fell off the faces of those who ordered the bombing of Serb refugee columns with powerless old men, women and children. Those innkeepers of the former Yugoslavia seek to continue to end the Balkans. They don't accept this kind of Yugoslavia, they don't accept this Serbia, Serbia from Horgos to Dragas. They want to bring Serbia down to Belgrade's pasture. That's why they're writing the script today, and they're giving roles in the continued holding of Serbian spaces. Can anyone today in Serbia agree to create an Albanian state on its centuries-old hearth? Of course, we all know the answer. We don't accept what no one in the world accepts. So, our country's leadership, by refusing foreign interference, expresses the political mood of Serbian citizens. We have unity between leadership and the people, unity in the interest of defence of national interest. I can't get past the pranks that come from the side: "We love the people, but leadership isn't good." How do you understand - they love the people - and they take away their territory from that same people. They accuse our country's leadership of not being in favour of co-operation and dialogue. Well, how to accept co-operation in destroying your own country. Yes, for dialogue and co-operation, but for dialogue and co-operation in the interest of peace. Serbia is for dialogue, to resolve all issues by political means, to respect European standards and conventions on the rights of national minorities. Serbia protects its constitutional order and integrity. If all these are legitimate goals, such as they are, if all this is in line with the relationship and practice of other European countries, then the question is - who and what should foreign intermediaries serve? Serbia and its positions and objectives are not needed by intermediaries and are not acceptable. Let the gentlemen who so tenderly advocate intercession gain at least a little human courage and acknowledge what is clear to every child, they want mediation because it wants to strengthen the position of those whose public goal is secession. Today, Albanians do not have problems with state leadership and Serbia, as it is today presented to the world. Albanians have problems with their terrorists, Albanians have problems with their separatists, with terrorists who kill police officers, citizens, Albanians who respect the state. How could the world close its eyes to such truth? Albanian terrorists and secessions today call for war and bleeding. The Serbian people have had enough bleeding. He needs a quiet life. So I believe that the upcoming referendum, in the interest of this peaceful life, will be massive and convincing and will narrow down the space for all the supporters of force and pressure, because they will be deprived of the opportunity to talk about any personal or party policy they are opposed to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u374	The People's Messenger Dr Fevzija Muric has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bojana Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is completely incomprehensible that the SR Yugoslavia via the MIP and through the Federal Foreign Minister only twenty days ago submitted an official application for admission to the Council of Europe, which is an encouraging and positive initiative and a step forward, and that we already have one such counter-initiative today, and I consider it a step back. So on the one hand, we ask that we enter European and world institutions, and on the other hand, we declare it undesirable in our country. I think Mr Milosevic has discredited Mr Jovanovic and the federal government with his letter and initiative. This referendum is too counterproductive, because only the question, as it is set, is already regulated by the Constitution of Serbia, so in fact, it only gives the people a chance to break the constitution in the event of a conflicting plea. I fully accept this initiative and that the referendum is the most democratic way to declare citizens. However, we wonder why Mr Milosevic, when it comes to plan Z-4, has not allowed Serbs in Krajina to make the same statement in this manner, has already allowed one policeman to make an independent decision. Third, why there is no honesty to the people and this issue is translated into what is truly said - if you accept international isolation and sanctions. Of course, the regime is suited to isolation and sanctions, because it allows it to do whatever it wants, as long as it wants, as long as it wants. And the burden of sanctions, unfortunately, affects only citizens. Given the current standard of citizens, it's hardly possible to withstand new sanctions. I welcome Mr. Milutinovic's decision to participate directly in the dialogue, but I also urge Mr. Milosevic to engage in dialogue, if he thinks well of the country and all citizens. (unhappiness) I call on Mr Milosevic to start a dialogue with the legitimate leadership of Montenegro and in such a way as to respect the electoral will of the citizens of Montenegro. I would like to warn against the inadmissible and inconclusive claims that in this country all human, civil, national and political rights are respected according to the highest world standards. Believe me, that doesn't match the truth, and the evidence is very much. President Milosevic himself admitted, in the November elections in 1996, that the voter's will was not respected, and now the whole political strategy wants to be based on the will of the citizens. It's actually just putting on a safety belt for one wrong policy, so eventually it's going to have to be paid by collective responsibility. The voter's will, gentlemen, has indeed been affected in the most brutal manner in Novi Pazar on 10 July 1997 by one of the anti-constitutional and anti-canceral decisions of the Serbian government. Our citizens are humiliated by the demonstration and the use of force and suspension of voter will. I'm the Deputy Mayor of the City of Novi Pazar. However, voters have again given me confidence in the parliamentary elections as early as September 21st. [[Laughter]] In the end, this year is a jubilee -- 50 years of protecting human rights in the world. In the end, I just want to explain what is not an internal problem, which many MPs have mentioned here. Let's start with an example of one family, where a father, as the strongest, is maiming other family members -- a wife, children, beating them, leaving them hungry and not caring for them. That family isn't just his problem anymore. She's the problem of the whole community. She's a social work center, police, psychologists and municipalities problem. Also, if in one country, by doing or by inacting, fundamental human rights and civil liberties are threatened, and above all life, then it is not an exclusive internal problem. Gentlemen, here is the official document (showing the document), I am glad that Minister Stojiljkovic is here, this is an official document from 19 February 1993, number 9/93, signed by investigative judge Milovan Mitrovica from Užica and present district attorney Vojislav Ilic, SUP inspectors Dragan Djordjevic, RadomirDogandzic, Miodrag Djeric, Desimir Spasojevic and deputy commander OUP Prijko Prijovic. Gentlemen, this document, this investigation carried out in the village of Kukurovici, the municipality of Priboj, shows that aggression has been committed on that village. It says here... Gentlemen, it's funny to you, you don't want to hear someone else's opinion and the truth. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Believe me, these are a lot of documents. This is the official document of the investigating judge. It's a village in the border area. To date, no evidence has been made of who committed the aggression. The village's burned down. The largest number of locals managed to escape into the woods, two Bosniak men burned in houses, and one woman was killed outside the house. This was written by an investigative judge. I didn't write it. Due to these events, Mr. Mikovic mentioned point 5, which allows for foreign interference in the event of aggression.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u376	It's not aggression from Bosnia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u377	It doesn't matter if she's from Bosnia. This country has not protected its citizens. The state was obliged to protect its citizens, regardless of nationality. These are the citizens of this country. Speaking of the terms "Bosnjak", "Muslim", I guess we have the right to plead as we think we should make a statement about ourselves. We don't need people to name us. The country claims to inherit the legal and any other continuity of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We, according to the Constitution of that country, were a constitutional and state-of-the-art people. Gentlemen, this should be considered in the overall constitutional and legal solution. You can provoke as much as you want, but I want you to sit down and talk to each other in an argument. We have a lot of evidence and arguments. Just our presence here, our own election, proves that we want to solve all problems through the institutions of the system. We had an emergency management in New Market. Mr. Seselj mentioned it. We used the institutions of the system. We submitted a request to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia for an assessment of the constitutionality of that decision. We have filed a lawsuit to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. Soon, nine months after he handed over the suit and the motion, and no court has given its word to this day. The will of the citizens, the will of the voters has been struck.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u378	Nine months! Someone to give birth to!
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u379	Well, someone's gonna have a baby, and we're gonna press charges to the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, so we're gonna see. You mentioned The Hague. For Strpce, Kukurovici, as well as all those kidnapped, missing, kidnapped, murdered, will surely work for The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u380	There is a word from MP Zivadin Jovanovic, who was called directly and called in the discussion of Mr Fevzi.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u381	Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, of course, everyone has the right to defend his right, but he also has the obligation to respect the state he belongs to, to respect her laws and order. My predecessor, if he had respected the laws of this country, its regulations, if he hadn't ascended to create parallel tax systems, parallel school systems, and in all other ways undermined the legality of the Serbian state, he would probably still be president in Novi Pazar. Let him continue to take care of his rights, but let him not cause confusion, let him not say that we do not understand what this is about. There is no place, no perspective, for separatism in any part of the state of Serbia, no place of hope, no perspective for separatism in Kosovo and Metohija, no in the Raška area, no in any part of Serbia, because all of this is Serbia today, as it was yesterday and as it will be tomorrow. Don't make any confusion and false dilemmas. The request of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for membership in the Council of Europe is precisely a concrete illustration of the open European option of this country and this policy, in which it is known which place and which strategy is represented by President Slobodan Milosevic. We are open and interested in Europe and the European institutions, for integration, is not to attach or prove to anyone. And then we follow the interests and strategy of this people, the citizens of this republic and this country. Then when we don't allow someone in our house to judge, to mediate between the citizens of one nation or another and another religion, and then we defend Europe, European standards and European principles, and then there's no room for any confusion. Your Honor, Mr. President, I would take the opportunity to express my opinion on today's subject. A new wave of pressure has been opened on our country. Let's not forget what's causing that pressure wave. The reason is that we were more determined to deal with terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. The occasion is the event of February 28th, which you know how it was, as well as the event of March 5th. Are these two events limited by location, and by time, and by action, the cause of rise to the feet of the world and the European system? What's and who's threatened by these actions? Are these reasons that the most responsible people of the European Union, that the Contact Group, the Security Council, are sitting with a dramatic rhythm and are racing who will take more and more stringent measures to predict the situation? Pressures - in what conditions, measures Contact Group and Security Council, in what conditions? In terms of when it does not question the constructive role of Yugoslavia in the region, the previous Yugoslavia, the southeast of Europe, when Yugoslavia recognises the stabilisation of the peace process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it appreciates its role in solving other consequences of the Yugoslav crisis, when Yugoslavia promotes good neighbouring, co-operation, understanding, when Yugoslavia launchs the concept of a free trade zone, when it advocates and in practice proves that it is successful in removing all barriers to the free movement of people, goods, cultural, technological, information and other goods. Then why are they measuring? Who's that bothering? And in Europe, we have a process of integration on the one hand, on the other hand of expanding philosophy and strengthening military presence and military alliances, expanding military and other presence of foreign, non-regional factors in our region. And in all things, what's going on? There are two concepts on the scene, one so-called. a universal new world order and a second, multi-poly. And in those conditions, and in those processes, dramatic pressure on Yugoslavia. What's the occasion? Two events and a terrorist charge were mentioned on the occasion. From Yugoslavia, from these forums, on the one hand, they apply to do what she has already done, waiting for no one, nor anyone to go down the road, but to do because they are her interests. If it's about co-operation issues with humanitarian organizations, it's not yesterday's. Not the International Committee of the Red Cross and other humanitarian organisations since yesterday in Serbia and Yugoslavia, but have been there for decades. They never retreated, nor had they ever had any problems doing their humanitarian activities normally, working normally with our humanitarian organisations, and above all with the Yugoslav Committee of the Red Cross. A request is being made for co-operation with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and he is there with his office in Belgrade, with his representatives in various parts of Yugoslavia, without any problem doing those jobs he has in his mandate and as an agreement is foreseen with our government. An application is being made for the opening of an essential dialogue, unconditionally, in Kosovo and Metohija. Is all I'm saying, these terms, not knocking on an open door? Does Yugoslavia have a negative view on any of these issues? There isn't. Then why do you make such demands? It's not hard to figure out. Pressures should be made convincing and the more required, the more convincing the reasons for the pressure. And on the other hand, a request that Yugoslavia cannot accept, which is today on the agenda of our National Assembly, a request to accept foreign intervention in solving our domestic affairs. Is that by some principle, by some charter, by some term of office? It's not. So the previous requirements are more like one environment, in order to provide a key requirement, an application for international intervention with the appropriate "social" and the corresponding coverage. It is essential that international mediation is accepted and through it enters the mechanism, from which the exit is not available. It's not enough to be smart always, to be smart on time. And it takes time and courage to tell your father what's going on. It is precisely that it must not and cannot accept a mill to crush the territorial integrity of the Serbian state through the acceptance of international intervention. And we're not stopping at this, because we want real problems and issues in Kosovo and Metohija to really solve. And we're going to do this on the platform that the government, the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, has offered. It is a platform of dialogue, openness, without any conditions and platforms to resolve all issues by political means, with the goal of all people, all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija being equal, and with the aim of applying European standards equally there. But there is no solution for what is above those standards and there is no solution outside the Constitution and outside the Republic of Serbia. And who in the end would mind and who and why would ask Kosovo and Metohija to get out of Serbia's integrity? We will co-operate with the international community as we have worked together so far, but co-operation and openness does not mean opening up a space to interfere with internal affairs. Because in that part of Serbia and Yugoslavia too, they want and will remain European countries, European countries, knowing that no other European state accepts or allows for interference in internal affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u382	Thank you. There's a word from MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u383	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, one high-ranking Dutch diplomat has said these days that Kosovo's status does not have to be resolved within Serbia's borders. 300 years ago, Dutch seaman Peter Stayersen landed on the Caribbean islands of Aruba and Kyrosavo and established a naval station there. These two islands, though thousands of miles away and although the Dutch do not live on them, are still part of the Netherlands today. It would be very desirable and useful for Mr. Van den Brook to answer the question in the cameras of the world's TV network: How can the Aruba be part of the Netherlands, and Kosovo, the birthplace of all Serbs, not necessarily within Serbia? The SPO does not run away from internationalisation of facts and the truth about Kosovo. On the contrary, the SPO will do everything possible to make the world know what it does not know. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u384	There's a word from the Messenger of the People, Golden Peru.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, if a referendum were to be a matter of formal rank, it would probably not be put on the agenda of this assembly. It is very good that today's debate in our Parliament has shown quite transparent, quite precisely what it is. The conservative and extreme parts of the state and political establishment of the United States (and I will say more about it precisely because of the Members of the Sandzak List) and the leading Western and European countries, as you know, have never truly accepted the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia as equal partners in the Dayton Peace Process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor have they allowed the normalisation of the overall international position of Yugoslavia and its integration into the international community. Known by the fiction of the so-called so-called fiction. The international factors have persistently sought to internationalise every internal issue, from economic, electoral, to international, with the ultimate aim of imposing arbitration on all issues in this country and legalising the status of the Serbian state and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as countries with a known formula of limited sovereignty. The overall progress made in the past two and a half years in the peace process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the co-operation of Republika Srpska and its new authorities with the international community, the beginning of the prosperity of the area - economically and socially - by parts of the international community has never been accepted as a result of the contribution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia and its leadership in the peace process, has been treated as a green light to transfer the crisis with well- thought-out means of diplomatic, intelligence and media influence to the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. The international environment has largely dictated the internal dynamics of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, a policy of cynical and seemingly fluctuating between the entire legal authorities of the state, on one hand, and separatists and terrorists, on the other hand, objectively means supporting the breaking of the Yugoslav and Serbian states, as well as the amnesty of the terrorist bearers of responsibility. As in 1991, the legal authorities of the state deny the legitimate right to use repression against terrorism, a right that is undeniable in all other situations and countries in Western Europe and the world. Nivelling policy leads to absurd results. The arms export embargo is formally guessing -- as both sides are said to be cynically. Which sides? In fact, it is about affecting the legal state, legally its right and its legal authorities, because Albanian terrorists (you will allow, American sources are concerned) are getting their weapons out of legal flows and now, after the introduction of the embargo, on Western-European black markets, gentlemen and ladies, in Hamburg and Amsterdam, transport via transit ports to Malta and Drac and imports into Yugoslavia over -- as US sources say -- difficult, objectively heavily guarded parts of the border. In a foreign media interpretation of the Kosovo crisis, it is deliberately potentiating, and I must stress this, an ideological issue, with attempts to challenge a divide between state leadership and the people. It is also considered that the qualification of Serbia's state leadership as a communist -- or depending on some media, which say: fascist -- will facilitate the preparation of international public opinion for political and possibly military intervention. Basically, and it's here and it's quite clear, it's a geopolitical question, not an ideological question. And probably under the same or similar circumstances, any leadership of Serbia and Yugoslavia would be exposed to the same intensity and forms of pressure, with the same or similar objectives or requirements for results. However, we are not faced with a simple and simplified choice, as some say: surrender or war. On the contrary, we have a number of options ahead of us, none of which are fully and ultimately defined, but as an alternative to reminding you of the state, economic and investment policy of Western countries - members of the Contact Group or countries under their direct influence - we have an option that relies on the commercial interests of leading Western companies, which in the privatisation and investment processes in Serbia identify their huge interests and which are the logic of these commercial, business interests and hopefully, our accelerated reforms, the totally opposed policy of economic sanctions of their governments. I think, essentially, in our processes in the country and such interests, it will prevail and win. Also, processes in the modern world make it clear that consistent homogenisation of the international community against Serbia and Yugoslavia can never again be achieved to the extent to which it once was. In a few words -- the strong presence of Islamic fundamentalists, parts of Iranian and Syrian intelligence and terrorist and religious groups in Albania with clear tasks to act towards Kosovo and Metohija, to train Albanian terrorist groups, contain a call of imminent conflict with the interests of the United States. The source -- US agencies and American dialogues and debates on the situation in Kosovo. A recent report on conflicts between US and Iranian agents, groups and factions in the former Soviet republics of Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, etc. shows that the conflict of interest is very large and that, regardless of what some hope, the United States will not particularly take a positive view of strengthening any fundamentalist position anywhere in the world, and especially not in the Balkans. In a covert aggression against our country, all media war funds, used in the period 1991 and 1992, were involved in a very early phase. The same media and the same journalists, who prepared a series of lies for international sanctions in 1992, exactly the same, have been re-activated. Thus, London's Times published a completely fictional text on Serbian police officers during recent conflicts with members of the so-called "Times" on 29 March 1998. Kosovo Liberation Army in the village of Glodjana, used Albanian school children as a living shield in front of their automatic tubes, the Times said. After less than seven days in all the leading media, namely CNN, the fact is that a British journalist, a certain Mary Colvin, invented schools and teachers and children, all with names and years of birth, but the Times didn't deny it. Also, Western journalists -- I hope they hear this -- who were in Kosovo and Metohija during the Drenica conflict in early March, publicly talk about trailers full of alleged refugees -- that were orbiting all the way around until they could draw the attention of any Western TV crew. The script, the method, the style, the way, it's all clear. However, this should also be said, "International Heraldtribion" on 30 March this year has a clear and convincing title "Kosovo is part of Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo have their rights". Too bad we don't have that article, maybe right here. Also, the text in the same list since 22 March 1998, in which the author, the former US ambassador to Russia, has been seriously criticising State Secretary's policy, Mrs. Albright. It's not such a simple situation and it's not so simple and it's not true that this country, this people, this government has no friends and there's no one who can, no matter where they are, tell the truth about the situation here. Finally, the dynamics of further pressures on Yugoslavia will determine the dynamics of its further discounts. All previous experiences from similar situations in other countries show that countries, which do not have internal state and political unity on key issues, which themselves accept non-principle concessions and concepts, are very quickly exposed to further pressures and blackmails, and that the spiral, as a rule, is not interrupted until the flood capitulation. On the contrary, countries that, even at the expense of temporary victims, continue to maintain their fundamental and fundamental rights, and their course, by manifesting unity between leadership and the people, retain priority by provoking the respect of international factors. What we're doing today, what the people are going to do, is that's exactly what I'm convinced of the respect of international factors according to what's called the will of the people. And don't forget that Western governments are extremely attached to what's called the public in their own country. They taught the public in their own countries that people's will must be respected anywhere. It will be difficult for any government to explain to any of its people, to its citizens and to its public, to whom it is very much held, whether it can deny the will of the Serbian people and the will of the Serbian citizens to be expressed on the 23rd of this month.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u386	There is a word from MP Zivojin Stevanovic, and Minister Nada Popovic-Perisic applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u387	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, esteeming your time and patience, allow me to express very briefly the views of the citizens whose I am one of the representatives of this House. The citizens of the Jablanic district unanimously supported and supported the Serbian government's measures to deal with terrorism and terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, and the initiative of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, we accept as a democratic act to confirm the will of the people in defence of freedom, dignity and perseverance to preserve their own identity. Knowing the pressures of great forces and powerful men on our country, its leadership and the people of Serbia, the citizens of Leskovci remember a history that would be repeated, reminding us that we do not need signatories and those who sell Kosovo and Metohija, we do not need observers and some helpers such as the citizens of Leskovec do not want to remember, who as observers and alleged allies on September 6, 1944, when the city was already freed, the bombers almost destroyed Serbian Manchester and all for their own interests. More than 30% of the population are members of the Albanian national minority on the territory of the Jablanic district, in the Medvedja municipality. They have and use all the rights guaranteed by the Serbian Constitution. They go to schools and school in their native language, go to elections, have their own committees in local self-government, live a normal life in a multinational environment, like the Medvedja municipality. So now it bothers the separatists and their leaders from Kosovo and Metohija to come, putting invisible pressure on their countrymen not to use these rights, but unfortunately, their rights fail. In Kosovo and Metohija, it is not the situation of national minorities, it is not the problem of their rights, but of their use. The selective boycotting of some, and the use of other rights is not the result of the free will of members of the Albanian minority, who are responsible, loyal, honest citizens in the good majority, this is the result of pressure and blackmail from representatives, whose public programme is a secession from Serbia. The terrorist actions of killing Albanians who are loyal to Serbia, as we saw yesterday, representatives of the government of self-government, attacks on state institutions, killing police officers, aim to intimidate the citizens of Albanian nationality to comply with the boycott, raise tension, distracting the international public and to justify demands for the intervention and internationalisation of this problem. The ultimate goal is to secede from Serbia. Serbia simply, under no circumstances can and will not allow it. By making a referendum decision, we are creating a precondition for Serbian citizens to decide on their country's most vital interest and to make their own decision on their own fate. I believe they will make the right decision. Life has taught us that individuals can make mistakes and people can never. I am conveying a message from the citizens of Jablanic County that they are going to the referendum. At the same time, our call to all Serbian citizens to confirm their determination to solve all problems through dialogue, agreement in our house, by going out on a referendum and not on the outside, not on terrorism and separatism. No one has the right to take away our people's history and the future. Kosovo and Metohija are the roots of Serbia and there is no tree without roots, nor Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u388	Thank you. There is a word from Minister Nada Popovic-Perisic, and let MP Bogoljub Pejcic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u389	Mr. President, honourable MPs, great moments in the political life of some people are never happy moments. These fateful moments in people's lives are the moments they face with freedom, and the experience of freedom is the most difficult experience, the only necessary experience. This does not mean that freedom is a matter of metaphysical enthusiasm, religious inspiration, or ethnic determination. It's before that it's a very prosaic and sober reality that teaches us the most common human experience, that sometimes decisions cannot be avoided and that by deciding about themselves, whether or not we want to, we also decide about others. The so-called political existence is nothing but the experience of this connection between our freedom and the freedom of others. Dear People's MPs, today the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly should make a decision that will allow our country's citizens to express their position on how to resolve the Kosovo issue, to decide whether the issue should remain an internal issue of Serbia and to be resolved by dialogue and political means, or whether its solution, along with international representatives and intermediaries, will be internationalised. What is threatened today in Kosovo -- the identity and spirituality of the Serbian people, historical fate, sources, beginnings and the highest achievements of Serbian culture and the Serbian people. Kosovo has always been that idea core, that inner force that our people have combined, inspired it to live for liberation, to stick together and not to get a rash. In the same mah, the sovereign equality of states has been threatened to decide for themselves the state-law position of the work of their own territory. What the international community sees, seeking to move Kosovo's solution to an international plan - first, that historical access to large political and national issues of our time is a presumption of any responsible effort to resolve these issues fairly, thoroughly and civilisedly. Because political phenomena have their own history, whether someone wants to or doesn't want to know. There are no two truths, but two visions of the same reality and how they can exist. Being objective and just in this situation does not mean accepting the other side's advance, ignoring, and uncritical view. Albanian nationalism is calling for a demographic situation, a relative majority of Albanian ethnicity in some areas, its territorial compaction in Serbia, and extreme separatist demands are being made out of these circumstances. Before 1912, Kosovo was referred to as old Serbia, because it is the core of the old Serbian state and culture. A logic in which only the current state and demographic relations are crucial for the status of one area cannot be accepted from either human or moral, or from the historical point of view, as it ignores the fact that the country is primarily inhabited by the Serbian people, as it is on its central and native historical land. The fact is that there are a significant number of internal disputes in countries on a national basis in the world, but the international community singles out and internationalises only the Kosovo dispute. This fact gives rise to our suspicions and caution when intervening an international factor - why not the Basque, Irish or any other question? Kosovo and Metohija are Serbian countries by the Serb people who have been inhabiting them for thousands of years, with at least nine hundred years in the absolute majority. International solutions have just joined Serbia-Montenegro, or Yugoslavia, because it is a Serbian country. Isn't that what the existing international solutions are all about today? Wouldn't that mean destroying documents made after World War I? If so, why would only on the case of this country violate international provisions, why not, for example, Poland, which belonged to a part of Germany? On the ground of Kosovo and Metohija, in the history of the Serbian people, such achievements of art were created, without which the culture of the Serbian people cannot be imagined -- the responsibilities of Serbian rulers and churches of many -- the Pećka Patriarchy, Gracanica, Decani. They represent a high European range and testify to an enviable degree of Serbia's civilization. Kosovo is therefore a symbol of Serbian statehood and culture. It has become a symbol of the values of a accomplished civilization, a symbol of national identity. The Albanian people live in Kosovo and Metohija, of course, with Serbs and other peoples, and should live there, with all personal and civil rights, but also with duties, as a national minority, a European and world standard, defined and clear enough. National and political, civil and economic, cultural rights of Kosovo and Metohija cannot and should not be disputed, as such rights should not be controversial for the Serb people in any part of the country. But the Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija cannot achieve their national sovereignty on this Serbian territory, because this would be contrary to Serbian sovereignty. Nor can Kosovo's metohic autonomy be interpreted as an expression and form of achieving such a national sovereignty of Albanian nationality. This would mean that the category of nationality is given content and exceeds the standards of international rights and that the category is equated with the category of people. This would mean, in a broader context, the breaking of Serbia, as the Constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia is not being respected. For Serbs, Kosovo is a matter of biological and national survival, not only in their territory, but also beyond -- the issue of freedom and equality, national identity and self-determination, and hence the natural aspect of mixing the international factor. Of course, we are for Europe, and our place is in Europe, we are for every collaboration with the international community, but by respecting Europe, we expect it to respect us and our history. We are, of course, for dialogue, but for a dialogue that respects arguments, historical context and culture, which respects the Constitution. Finally, what are the national rights, which are denied to Albanians? To that question, the answer should just be given by the dialogue that we stand for. We live in the same space and share one land. In the mutual patience and respect for human rights, in achieving a civilized standard of these rights and legality, which is the assumption of everyone's and everyone's freedom, the only perspective is that one truly conflicting situation comes out without harm to the people, who, in such conflicts, is always the greatest loser. That is why the people should decide on their own in the most democratic way, through a referendum, as they see the preservation of their own sovereignty and territorial integrity of their country. Because recognising the right to another is not possible at the cost of giving up its fundamental right, nor is it possible to discuss any kind of denial of the sovereignty of the Serbian people in their country without questioning the very basis on which Serbia and Yugoslavia rest. The idea that autonomy within the Yugoslav state could be understood as an element of national sovereignty and ethnicity poses the danger of disintegration of Serbia and secession of an entire area. Hence, in such a matter, Kosovo as the national, strongest identification of the Serb people should be decided by all citizens of Serbia, i.e. the people concerned, and not just one part of it. In such a referendum, therefore, it is not just a particular issue, which would require some special qualification, but decides on the most general political matter, identifying the political capacity of the people itself, the civil sovereignty itself, which has freedom for its unconditional assumption. It is not decided, therefore, only on Cosmet and Serbia, on this or that national minority, on this or that particular historical or practical state, but simply on this -- are we all ready to face the inevitable that, by deciding about ourselves, we also decide about others? The stake is therefore the very political existence of all who live here, regardless of what kind of individual, group, ethnic, language, cultural, religious, ideological, party, or any other difference. It is only apparent that this referendum concerns only the position on the international community's involvement in our internal affairs. He, as an act of sovereignty, is much more concerned with ourselves, and in him everyone who lives here must confirm in their relationship with themselves. It does, therefore, decide not only whether we will agree to the involvement of the international community in our internal affairs, but above all on whether there will be any of our things, some of our relationship with ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u390	Thank you. There's a word from the People's Messenger Bogoljub Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I find it counterproductive from this pay phone to invite citizens to a referendum. Let from our facts, from our evidence, from our arguments, the citizens of the state of their identity, whether or not they will. I'm not going to tell if it's necessary to get out or not, or who's guilty, or who's been writing the press lately, who he wants to blame, the government or the regime, and who he knows. So, I don't care who the culprit is, because if we lose Kosovo and Metohija, it's irrelevant and insignificant being who's guilty. That is why our overall effort must be focused on the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, of course, not by war, but on negotiations and agreements with the Albanian side, our media promotion of truth, and even if it is in front of the cameras of the whole world. I would suggest to my younger colleague, the Minister of Information, that the Government immediately form an information centre in Pristina and that young, talented journalists who know languages work there, and of course both Kosovo and Metohija, who will talk in contact with correspondents and reporters about the suffering of our people. Because Kosovo's problem is not from the time of Mr Milosevic, nor from the time of Josip Broz, Kosovo and Metohija's problem is several hundred years old. Our journalists must speak with foreign reporters to say that more than 900 Serb, once Serbian, and once lost their language and religion live in Kosovo and Metohija today. They must tell them, under what circumstances they lost it. The drenica, which is now a lot of talk, was the rate of Serbian to the Karadjorje's uprising. With the failure of the Karadjordje's rebels, with the help of the Turks, the Arabs pressured Serbs from all sides in Drenica, who had no other exits, except to receive Islam and the Arabic language. And, now, all that remains is the town of Srb, who testifies to their origins. The tragedy of Serbs, not only in Drenica, but also in Prizrenjska parish, but also in Djakovica, Gornja Morava, was written by many travellers from almost all over Europe. Let these journalists explain the work of Hawks, who, on a concrete case, proved that the Serbs were broken. About this Hawk, the Russian consul, Vuk Draskovic wrote the novel "Russian Consul", with examples of the red tape of our Serbs. The well-known English writer, Mrs. MacKenzie, presented earthquake testimonials also on Serb red tape. Let our journalists tell these English journalists that the House of Lords in Britain was excited, when he read it and suggested helping Serbs in the terrible clocking of Serbs by Arbanas. And, not to mention, it's the job of this information centre to meet foreign journalists, how a nation disappeared with sword and fire in the oldest Serbian state. I believe that no foreign journalist, if these facts were presented to him, would remain indifferent to this great Serbian tragedy. I also have a proposal to the government that as soon as this team is formed negotiatingly, it will appoint a single spokesman on the team, who will contact the press every day. And, regardless of the malice and cynical issues of these journalists, he should be responsible and smart, patient and involved to know that he answers every question. We gentlemen lost the media war in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Among other things, we lost to Martic, who used to screw some journalists with a gun. We also lost him to Sonja Karadzic, who, by her own taste, chose whom she would give the journalist an credential, who she would throw out and whom she would arrest. The truth about Serbs was thought to fall from the sky, because these people held that we were the celestial people. Our truth is, ladies and gentlemen, on earth, our truth is among the monasteries, our truth is in Gracanica, the Pećko Patriarchy, the Decani, our truth is among the former Serbs Markovici, now called Markovici, among Djokovici, now called Đokovici, among Simici, who are now called Simici. There is, therefore, contained all of our truth and our tregedy. We must prove this truth, that the world will understand all our casualties on the ground of Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore, and if we will, we cannot give and give to anyone old Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u392	There is a word from MP and vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Milovan Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u393	Dear President, honourable MPs, has been in Kosovo and Metohija for many years now, the owner of the Albanian people holds the same people hostage as the hostages of one of his own, outside the entrenched truth. You know very well that the truth is one thing and that only a lie is made up. We also know well that no one has the right to a monopoly on the truth and no one has the privilege of sinning. A river of truth in Kosovo and Metohija flows through the canals of delusion, and so some Albanians live in error, while others are deluded. I'll try very briefly to tell what's true, and what's error, what's deception, who's winning, who's losing a solution to the Kosovo-methological issue. The truth is, there was a call for dialogue. The truth is, there were calls for elections. It is true that the Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija are using certain rights, especially from the sphere of pension, disability, health care, and from recent school education. It is true that they have mostly amputated themselves, or denied these rights. It is true that there is a genuine desire in the state of Serbia for these rights to be re-affirmed. What's wrong? The delusion is Kosovo's Republic and international mediation. What's a prank? The plot was a constitutional element of the SR of Yugoslavia, which was not recognised by the Federation until yesterday. She's perfect today. She's just missing a third member. It's actually just an indirect path to the direct gate of secession. Who gets and who loses the solution to the Kosovo issue? All of them, primarily the Albanian national minority, but everyone living in Kosovo and Metohija, in the state of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia, in the Balkans, in Europe, is one less problem for the whole world. Who's losing? He loses the owner of the Albanian people, with his out-of-the-way truth and destructive policy, whose end is inevitable when they are implemented into the political, social and state system of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, the battle is only won by one who's determined to win it. From all this, Serbia and its citizens must come out as winners. On the ladder of victory, it's not with its hands in its pockets, it's with offensive diplomacy, politics, information. We should, then, be smart, and only the smart ones are on time. And that's why I think this referendum is a smart solution. Which means international intervention in resolving the internal issues of the Republic of Serbia. It means bringing into a position of constricted dialogue, where one side is not waiting, where one side is only blackmailing, where it has a dictated dictatorship by international intermediaries, and then an international mediator, some new Westendorp says: this size will be territory, this kind of autonomy, this kind of coat of arms, this kind of seal, this kind of sign. Dear People's MPs, these are issues that have no authority only with the President of the Republic, with the National Assembly, with the Government, but also with citizens of our Republic. This government has its firm foothold in Parliament, but it is wise for the people to say theirs. Dear People's MPs, as Mr. Gelbart does, sparring through Serbia and actively participating in a pre-election campaign in another federal unit, he says, Serbia just needs some puppet government, a deputy government that would finish the thing. Finally, let me say that I was one of those who, today's twentieth Jubilee Road, was in Pristina, with a sincere desire to reach an open, unconditional dialogue with the Albanian side in Kosovo and Metohija. Today in our delegation was the President of the Republic of Serbia, then three vice-presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and three members of the government delegation. On behalf of the citizens of Serbia, I ask you to speak next time in Belgrade, in the capital of the sovereign Republic of Serbia, an international complex community in which 26 people live, where the republic has never divided the people into large and small, but has done and will do everything in future for their versatile and free development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u394	There's a word from MP Miodrag Panic. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milovan Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u395	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since we've been working for six hours, I'm going to try to keep my exposure brief. When deciding on a referendum should take into account, firstly, what bothers Albanians in Serbia, secondly, what Albanians, thirdly, what the West wants and, fourthly, what Serbia needs to do. It bothers Albanians that the Serbian police have been brought into order, which they cannot, like before, blatantly and violently behave, which they cannot banish and kill cattle, tear down fences, burn down bogs, houses, plains, monasteries, scramble on horsebacks, dozen nuns, tear down tombstones, shoot down the Serb population, commit murder of citizens and police officers, commit rape without being held accountable. Do Albanians know how much it costs to protect and defend the 8%-10% of the Serb population in their own country? Do Albanians know what it would mean if the money were invested in Serbia's economy? What are the Albanians looking for? The Albanians are looking over the bread cake. They want to live in a new country. In addition to Albanians, 400 other ethnic groups are looking for their countries in the world today. Well, what would the world look like if 400 other states were created? Albanians seek instruction in Albanian, not a census. They're looking for a dialogue, not an election. They're looking for state services, and they don't meet their national obligations. For decades they have not paid taxes because, thanks to autonomy, they have been playing Serbian law for years. What does the West want? The behaviour of the West is two-faced because it has two archaics of democracy, one for its own, the other for foreign countries. The Americans are worried about the Shiptars in Kosovo. Their always maximum-stricken emissaries are trying to intimidate us, so we can accept the insidious demands. Since Americans are often concerned, why aren't they concerned about Apache rights in Arizona, Comanche in Oklahoma or Sioux in Arkansas? Apparently, Americans believe Kosovo and Metohija are the best way to destabilise Yugoslavia. They want Kosovo and Metohija to provide wider autonomy, so if they fail, terrorism will continue to encourage, and ultimately war is possible. The weapons of terrorists in Kosovo are not only trophy and not only from Albania, but also from Brussels, Stuttgart, Zurich and New York. Separatists are being ordered by the national structure of the population. The fact that 62% of Serbs and Montenegrins and 32% of the national minorities live in Serbia is widely used by our neighbours to potentiate, allegedly, unresolved national issues, leading to the destabilisation of Yugoslavia. What should Serbia do? Serbia should solve Kosovo and Metohija on its own without foreign interference, for two basic reasons. First, Serbs must preserve the most sacred monuments of Serbian history. Due to tradition, Kosovo and Metohija is a sacred country for Serbia. Secondly, Serbs must not give up large natural resources and economic potentials. In addition to the extraordinary conditions for agriculture, Kosovo and Metohija are rich in strategic raw materials, significant for the entire Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. For these reasons, only Serbs and Albanians should lead the dialogue. That is why today in this assembly hall all MPs, except for MPs who are not Serbs and Serbs who don't always feel like Serbs, should think and behave like Serbs. Western vigilantes have nothing to look for in parts of Serbia. Why did I use the term "Western Avengers"? Because today in The Hague, Serbs are tried for far less crimes than the crimes committed by the American Green Berete in Vietnam, which taught 120 ways to kill a man. Once again, Western vigilantes have nothing to look for in Serbia. At the end of the line, at any moment, in any case, even in the most difficult, question of the sovereignty of the country must always be in the first place. Therefore, the initiative of the president of the federal state, Slobodan Milosevic, to carry out the referendum is absolutely correct. The Serbian government's decision is also correct. It remains to be seen what is the decision of the MPs, or the National Assembly. I am convinced that, apart from some MPs of national minorities and some, according to Professor Vojvodic, butal Serbs, the vast majority of MPs will vote in a referendum and the alliance of all peoples of Serbia and patriotism of the Serbian people will decide on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u396	There is a word from Messenger Milovan Blazic. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u397	Dear MPs, in the statements of the bar, so-called The democratic world has a desire to include in imperial requirements countries in transition and development in civilizational assets such as the market economy, with privatisation, such as the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. But they often do so by their own rules and exclusively in their own interest. We offer these civilization goals to the Albanian national minority based on the Constitution of Serbia and international standards, just, human and democratic. That's why this democratic world has to realize that democracy isn't about pulling away other roots, turning over its cradle, breaking its heart and destroying its soul. That is why this democratic world must know that Kosovo is our roots, our cradle, the heart of Serbia and our soul. For these reasons, for historical, national, humanistic, means the vital interests of our country and people, we cannot allow anyone on the outside to interfere with internal issues concerning the sovereignty and integrity of the country, with a violation of our country's constitutional and legal order. The sovereign and democratic right of every citizen of this country is to protect his sovereignty and independence. It's the highest act of patriotism. It's duty and obligation. It's the highest and highest act of patriotism and humanism. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party welcomes Mr Milosevic's initiative and fully accepts the decision to call the referendum as a democratically direct way of deciding, that the people say what they think about the participation of foreign representatives in resolving the country's vital issues of sovereignty and integrity, because that is the way to serve both the name and preserve their face.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u398	Thank you. There is a word from Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic, and let MP Zoran Milosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we're going to make a very important decision, I'd say a historic decision, and today we're going to be complicated for the first time in this session, almost like when we verified our mandates. We have very important decisions ahead of us, and I hope that all decisions will be made this way in the future. Albania's national minority is ruled by evil. Albania's national minority has been denied human and civil rights. They were denied the work of their political leaders and so on. international communities. They've been denied basic rights -- right to work, right to treatment, right to education in their own language, the right to choose and the right to be elected. The Republic of Serbia wants those rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, to return them, to provide them, and they are higher than any international convention would allow any other national minority in any other country. The international community has long intervened in Kosovo and Metohija. She interfered in her own way, secretly, insidious and arrogant. That's how she created the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, so she tries to get the political leaders of Muslims in the Raška area, and today I've heard evidence of this claim, pouring water into their ears, to create a problem in a country where they wouldn't have to have any problems. What does the international community support with Albanian leaders? Ideas that make American police kill citizens of America without warning, ideas about secession, about a state that would come out of one state, the idea that a minority could rule most. America didn't measure democracy. Not that America, which in almost every country in the world killed the citizens of that country. Not that America, who has never fought on its ground and never first pushed its soldiers into war. If it hadn't been for September's elections, that they'd gone to the polls or that the elections were better off by the so-called favorites. international communities, America would now ask us to discuss a referendum on this same issue. The September elections and especially the atmosphere, which was created in Serbia in the last 10 or 15 days, convinced America that it is not joking with Serbia, that this Serbia is ready, that this Serbian government is ready to ask people when it is difficult. The Serbian government could have made such a decision on its own. Today, it is clear that she would have the support of the National Assembly. But she wanted to ask Serbian citizens for a referendum, because the Serbian government could not make any other decision at any cost. So that it does not turn out that the Serbian government is commanding its people beyond his will, we will obey the will of the citizens, expressed in a referendum. As the citizens say in the referendum, so will it. Maybe after that there's no America, but probably one part of her terrible influence in the world after this will weaken. They do not allow us to have Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia. What do we have in Kosovo and Metohija? We have land, water and air and fences around Serbian houses, older than America. If they take our land, we will be hungry, if they take our water, we will be thirsty, if they take our air, there will be neither us nor Serbia. I'm aware of the decision we're making today. After all, in my house, Serbia always has three warriors every day and night. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u400	Thank you. There is the word of the messenger of the people, Zoran Milosevic; let the messenger of the people be prepared, Ivan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u401	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I would first like to point out here that this assembly speaker has been abused on two or three occasions. I mean it because of when previous MPs discussed, calling on citizens not to go to the referendum. The law and the right obligation is for all full-time citizens of this country to go to both the vote and the referendum. When I say the referendum, which we are voting for today, for many understandable reasons, I see it as a true affirmation of the people's will and a desire to preserve its sovereignty and territorial integrity. I therefore believe that today represents a historic date and a historic turning point, I would say the only time for people's democratic decision and taking responsibility for their own future. I am convinced that the Serbian people, all Serbian citizens, will be determined to say -- no, in fact, historical -- no, on the question whether the participation of foreign farts in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija is accepted. A different answer than "no" in mixing Serbia's internal affairs and cannot be because Kosovo and Metohija are not only a solid-based myth, but a sacred Serbian country, which has never been or will be sold. I must say that Kosovo and Metohija are not seen politically seriously today outside Serbia, none other than Albanian separatists and some Serbian petty political smugglers, groups and groups, who have always turned their backs in Serbia's most difficult moments. Serbia must not turn its back today, especially when it comes to maintaining integrity and territorial integrity. The Serb and Montenegrin people in Kosovo, who have suffered enormous suffering and who have resisted Albanian separatism for many years, will resolutely defend Kosovo and Metohija. In doing so, they defend their right to live peacefully and never to be citizens of the second order in their own country. Under the cloak of threatened rights and freedoms of Albanians, Albanian separatists and their political leaders openly and without restraint want Kosovo and Metohija to build a new Albania in the heart of Serbia, thinking that all of this will go well with some of the world's powers. That is why these days it is burning or better said to restore the burning of fuses not only in Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija should, if separatism passes, also be anti-balance for separatists in Vojvodina, so-called Sandzaku and some other parts of Serbia. Unfortunately, Serbia's separatists and destroyers, i.e. Yugoslavia, are being classified these days and some political parties in Serbia-Montenegro, who are being ordered to break Yugoslavia, which come on the side, the only goal and way to survive on the political scene. That's the kind of history that set the place. Their place is in the dump of a shameful history, whose pages are printed shamelessly by the betrayal of the altar of Serbia-Montenegro. For the left and right of Serbia, for intellectuals, the common interest for all citizens of Serbia must be the answer "no" to all pressures, neither secession nor separatism. I therefore expect Serbia to defend Serbia from the dismemberment and unfavorable guests at the referendum, which would make us a home-order in Serbia and help solve our own problems. There was danger over Serbia. The referendum takes the historical word "no" to foreign powers and intermediaries to remove danger and responds to all blackmails, threats and pressures. The people also respond to many accusations that Serbia has been sold, that Kosovo and Metohija are issuing political leadership of Serbia and Yugoslavia. There's an answer to everything - no betrayal and no sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u402	Thank you. He has the word Dr Ivan Kovacevic, and let the MP of the people, Ljubisa Stevanović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Seselj is not currently in the O.R., I'm sorry, I'm going to talk about it, and if it's a problem, I'm going to give him a written text. If Mr. Seselj, as leader of the Serbian Radical Party today, could insult the Serbian Renewal Movement, then he cannot and must not, as Deputy Prime Minister. Today, on behalf of the Serbian government, he told the Serbian Renewal Movement that we are a Serbian fraud movement. We believe the Prime Minister, Mr. Marjanovic, is not behind these irresponsible words and insults. Unresponsible words and short wits are not patriotism. Today, Seselj often mentioned the Serbian Krajina and accused America of its collapse and the great misfortune of our people. The Contact Group, we remember, drawn up a famous Z-4 plan to resolve the status of Serbian Krajina, which envisioned that the Serbian Krajina has the president of the Republika Srpska Krajina, its parliament, its own government, its own coin, its flag, its coat of arms and its delegated representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. In addition, citizens of Republika Srpska were guaranteed citizenship from Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with Croatian citizenship. And then what happened? Mr. Seselj has declared plan Z-4 an anti-Serbian document of anti-Serbian America. Even one high-ranking official of the S.H.I.E.L.D. couldn't read plan Z-4, so what Z-4 said on Cyrillic was "three-four". Then Seselj goes to Krajina, cruises to Krajina, gives fiery and irresponsible speeches, organizes the mining of railway lines and ambushes on an open highway, which was then free of traffic. hypnotized by his heroic attitude, the main people of Krajina reject plan Z-4, or "three-four", as some of his people have said. Next thing you know, it's what's coming. Instead of keeping the Serbian people maximum protection, he lost everything. No more Serbian Krajina, no more Serbs where we lived for centuries. Where stupidity goes, no wisdom. Where evil is plowing, it doesn't grow well there. I ask Mr. Seselj to speak responsibly as a senior Serbian government official, because the consequences of his irresponsibility as Deputy Prime Minister can be devastating to Serbia. (One voice from the hall: You missed the subject.) ( b) Let him not take this any other way than as advice, and a friendly advice. The Serbian Renewal Movement does not want Kosovo and Metohija, does not want to defend their country's benefits for party marketing. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] We're going to meet events that can mean being or not being all of us together, but also each one of us. Therefore, let us stay away from the damned divisions and hatreds, and no one today has the right to break up the unity of the Serbian people and of Serbia. Let's leave the party bickering for election campaigns. If we have to defend Kosovo with our heads, it will be irrelevant who is from the SPS, who is from the Serbian Radical Party and who is from the Serbian Renewal Movement. So I ask you to stay away from sowing our divisions and trenches and stay away from every word and procedure that could be used in front of Europe and the world as an argument against Serbia. In that sense, what you answer, whoever replicates from the Serbian Radical Party or re-insults the Serbian Renewal Movement, the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement will not answer. All for Serbia and all for Serbia! [[Applause and fire in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u404	Thank you. There is a word from MP Ljubisa Stevanovic, and let the Minister of Science and Technology Bane Ivkovic, who asked for a word, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u405	Dear President, the honourable people's messengers, is wise and brave that people who know how to guard every inch of their country. Throughout centuries of history, the Serbian people have proved their wisdom and his courage in every turning moment. He protected himself, but he protected everyone else who lived in this country. Serbia has never allowed others to manage it and most likely for these reasons is today a bone in the throat of all those who wish to tear it apart and put it on their knees. We are witnessing how many ministers, their deputies and various emissaries, representatives of the European and the World Community, have been cruised and cruised to Serbia these days, all looking for and offering some agreements, and with the leaders of Albanian parties doing negotiations in style: you are looking for an independent Kosovo, and we are going to fight for Kosovo the Republic, all hoping that the threats of the rapists will scare Serbs and Serbia so much and all those who are loyal to Serbia, all thinking and believing that the Serbian country is for sale. They forget or don't know that Serbia has a people, that this people have their own voice, a thundering voice, who will decide their own fate, who will show in one word all their wisdom and strength. And I guess after this referendum, it'll become clear to the world's powers that they're so-called. Democratic mechanics unwanted and the people won't let anyone on his side, no matter how much power he had and threatened, run around his house. Because these foreigners also know perfectly that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia, they know well that they are the roots of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and that every Serb, wherever he is, Kosovo and Metohija, feels as a sacred being, as a spiritual essence of a Serb being. And from this place we order all the so-called. Democrats of the West, who would like to internationalise Cosmet, who would like to mediate in dialogue under the pretext of helping us, that the people would not allow it. We ask the question: with whom do they want all these negotiations or agreements? They encourage Albanian leaders daily, visit them and give false hopes, turn them into their own exposures, helping consciously separatism, because the creation of Kosovo is in fact their interest. They know well that Albanians are Serbian citizens and that not all Albanians are Rugova, Demac, Pula and others. This is also evidenced by numerous letters across Kosovo and Metohija with the signatures of hundreds of representatives of the Albanian national minority, who openly say Serbia is their country and that Albanian leaders' policy leads them to ruin. We are sure that these signatures and letters will be more, because they are people who have all the rights, like all the other citizens in this country. However, we must understand the fear that is instilled in them, the repression that follows from representatives of the so-called “representation. ” democratic parties. I'll give you one example, and there's a lot of them. A man who made a statement on television that his home country is Serbia and that the Kosovo issue should be resolved in Serbia itself, has experienced that his house in the village of Zjum is being demoted tomorrow, when his father went to visit his family's house he had suffered a sneak attack by terrorists, he was wounded, and his car was destroyed, which the press had already written about. Because of all the dangers of individual declaration, many Albanians took a pen and folded paper, and wrote not only to the president of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the Information Centre in Pristina. I brought it, and since the US Information Centre in Pristina won't publish it, I want to show you and all the interested journalists can get it. In these two letters I have brought, the 294 signatures of Albanians, with a desire to make their names known. Another characteristic case. The president of the Turkish Democratic Union for Kosovo and Metohija, though the first voiced his desire to participate in negotiations with representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, had such pressure that he was not allowed to go to work for two days because he was immediately invited to the Turkish embassy to tell him what kind of a country Serbia is. I also brought this letter, which was sent to the Deputy Prime Minister, and stands precisely as the first signator of the country of Kroizino, president of the Turkish Democratic Union for Kosovo and Metohija. There are many of these and similar examples, and they only illustrate what repressions loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija face. Such a policy has driven many Serbs from Cosmet over the past decades. Such a policy has led to the Albanianisation of many of the villages in which Muslims and Turks live, so there are countless examples that the father is a Turk, and the son is an Albanian, one is a Turkish brother, and the other is an Albanian. The entire Muslim villages are Albanian, and today we have villages where the native language is Serbian, children attend classes in Albanian, even though they do not know a single Albanian word. The same is true of the Roma. If it were a census, I believe that the demographic image would be at least the way Albanian leaders represent it, so I guess foreigners would understand that not only Albanians live in Cosmet, but other national minorities who experience Serbia as their country and who know well that Kosovo and Metohija is Serbian. The international community insists that Kosovo and Metohija are the issue of Yugoslavia. The hypocrisy is at the highest level, because as much as it was said here yesterday, Serbia-Montenegro said, because they found it difficult to say the word Yugoslavia. The people are our distant memory, Kosovo and Metohija are 13 centuries from the creation of an independent state. So, ever since Yugoslavia was gone. It seems a devastating thought that someone now wants to rip out the heart of a centuries-old country, all under the pretext of not respecting human rights. Citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as all citizens of Serbia who care about honor and honesty, whose blood of famous ancestors flows and whose memory reaches to the very beginnings of the Serbian state, enthusiastically embraced the initiative of President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, who at this crucial moment put the people above all parties and other interests. I am sure that the people will come out in mass for a referendum and give an answer, which is no, not to those who wish to dissipate Serbia, not to those who mourn the Serbian people, because the Serbian people do not bear pity. The Serbian people have enough brains and strength to solve their own problems within their own borders. Any interference on the side would mean a challenge for which the international community would be responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u406	He has the word Minister Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you accept the participation of foreign representatives in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija? No, I don't. ) Of course you don't accept and you should say no, but I want you to know that your colleagues in this assembly at the most difficult times, when it came to the integration of Serbia and Yugoslavia with Europe, have said one great yes. A spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which as an axiom had the integration of Serbia and Yugoslavia with the environment, was adopted in this assembly. We have always, citizens of Serbia, known to approach Europe and wanted that meeting with Europe, created all conditions for the overall economic and cultural exchange of this country with Europe. We've passed the Law on our own transformation, the Law on concessions, at the level of the federal state of the Foreign Investment Act, here, the Law on Community Works. We have done everything a modern and modern country should do to enable the free flow of capital, to allow sufficient guarantees to foreign capital to come to these areas, to make profit, but in the interest of the citizens of this country, in the interest of the country's economy. So whenever the international community approached this country with a fair and business relationship to make contacts, to make a trade in goods and a total exchange, we were open to such contacts. However, today, when the international community and its individual representatives, who are in the country, where the recent democracy was with two reels in the belt or where by yesterday, black people couldn't get on a bus where they were white, they wanted to live and work in another way, our answer is no and our answer has to be no. We must discuss the referendum and get the answer no, because the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a sovereign state, because the Republic of Serbia, which wrote in the Constitution, is a state of citizens of all its peoples, because 27 national minorities and ethnic groups live in Vojvodina and live using their own rights, because they go to school in their native language in Vojvodina because they have their own informative texts, have their own cultural associations. Why is it that only one nation does not want to use all the rights that we have defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That must be answered by their leaders and those who support their leaders in secession and in their desire for independent Kosovo and Metohija. Citizens of Albanians, citizens of this country must know that their leaders and those who did not go to the polls are guilty because they do not exercise their rights. Rare are countries in Europe where local self-government has such jurisdiction as in the country of Serbia. Public utility companies, building land management, all that concerns the citizen of a local self-government is largely being solved in local self-government. Who forbade them to go to elections and gain those rights to use both local and republican and federal elections. That is why a referendum should be called and we should support the country's final leadership. We should say not because others are equating terrorist actions in Kosovo with the legal options of our police to prevent terrorism in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u408	He has the word of Minister Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u409	The word - two about a mediator being asked by Albanians who are generously offered, not in the way of free persuasion of their actions, but in the way they speak of themselves, through the book of Zbigev Bžinski. This is a man whose name is probably familiar to you, he was a national security adviser to the President of the United States from 1977 to 1981. It's one of the most influential people in the United States today. He recently published a book titled "The Great Chess Board, the American Championship and its geostrategic imperatives". This work looks like what we in our language would call a national program and represent a vision of American foreign policy for the 21st century. Bežinski is brutally open in his book, he no longer talks about the community of equal nations, the sovereignty of states, democratic international relations and universal application of human rights. He admits it's just rhetoric. Bežinski doesn't talk about war, but he shows that a combination of pressures, offers for economic and political co-operation and skillful use (I stress) of national conflicts and internal weaknesses can achieve the goal of saving America's imperial power, at least for another generation, and if it can be longer. For those who do not cooperate, even if it is China, which they respect by their size and power, all their internal problems are intended to be opened from the outside. An attempt to inter-nationalise the creation of problems between Kosovo and Metohija is an attempt to discipline a state, a Serbian state. It's America, and it's her national interest. Let the citizens judge for themselves how much it takes to allow someone who considers themselves a hegemon, comparing their empire to Byzantine. The difficult times we find ourselves in require great wisdom. Wisdom can be an individual's privilege, a gift of God, but it is undisputed that there is one wisdom, which no one can deny, that is folk wisdom. The referendum is also a legal way for this people's wisdom, on the other hand and responsibility, to be expressed and no one can say that this referendum is a cover for the government or any individual. This referendum is, in fact, our desire to try this America in front of everyone else to let us know that they leave us alone, just to leave us alone. I, who am from Kosovo and Metohija, am neither worthy nor guilty. However, just because I am from Kosovo and Metohija, which is where we have children, the rest of our family, friends and everyone else, proves that I am particularly interested, that this country rewards me for all my patience, for living and for living and living down there, living and waiting for this problem to be solved, to reward us by showing us a firm determination to start solving this problem. To begin with, I think it's quite enough that this solution to the problem involves the limits that are and the Constitution that is, for everything else we have to have patience and a lot more, a lot of wisdom. I hope we both don't miss each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u410	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, many today have spoken about what we are concerned and how we are threatened with Kosovo and Metohija, seducing new and more rigorous sanctions, or even more drastic measures against the Serbian and Serbian people, have instructed historical, cultural reasons, have spoken of many facts, our territory, our country and water, as they have said, but it seems to me that we have mentioned a little bit and talked about our people in Kosovo and Metohija, about people living down there, that this is our greatest wealth, and that is what we cannot first of all lose. Serbs have almost lost the Republika Srpska Krajina, their centuries-old hearths, their territories, their houses, many of their families, or at least their nearest. We must not allow this to happen again in Kosovo and Metohija, we must not forget that not only do Albanian separatists live in Kosovo and Metohija and that they have some exclusive right to secede, or not, from Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or make some of their federal or confederal units. A large number of members of our people live downstairs, a large number of other national minorities, who want to live as loyal citizens, as people who respect the Constitution and the law of this country, to live where they have lived for decades. Someone in Belgrade said the other day - the referendum question is not: whether or not foreign forces will interfere with our internal issues, but whether or not we will live under sanctions. Some say, "What do we care about Kosovo and Metohija, we don't even have the country's pedal down there, we don't care much about it." Imagine if we thought of all other parts of our Serbia in such a way? Well, today, Kosovo and Metohija, tomorrow (how they were announced today by Mr.Muric and Kučević), would be on the agenda of the Raška area, then some smart people would find themselves putting the Serbs from Vojvodina in such a position, and so on forever. We could never say - the end, we ended up the issue of the constitution and survival of our country and we can work and live like the whole normal world, like everyone else. Today, a representative of the "Sulajman Ugljanin" party here said that we lie and distort the truth (and it is rude) when we say that no one violates the rights of national minorities in Kosovo and Metohija, and in Serbia at all, and then, as an example, he cited, believe it or not, elections, November elections, from 1996. This was an example of a violation of the rights of national minorities. Let us, our political parties, conflict over the electoral rules, whether the government has broken or not, but that with the rights of the national minorities has nothing to do with it. In our country, our Assembly (not this, but the Assembly of the former Yugoslavia) ratified all documents, which, according to the highest international and legal standards, protects the rights of national minorities, and the international pact on civil and political rights, and the international pact on economic, social and cultural rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights, and implements all of this in the best way. So the question is, what is this missing for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, what is this missing for members of perhaps other national minorities, or religions in our country? No, they're missing nothing. Are Albanians living badly in Kosovo and Metohija? No, I don't. They live much better than Serbs. They have far greater economic power, because a good part of them does not respect the country's laws, a good part of them does not pay taxes to our Serbia, and Serbs pay for it. Then what do they miss? I'll remind you of the 1992 statement by Ibrahim Rugova. Many abroad no longer want to remind us of that statement, and many times they mentioned it in 1993 and 1994. This was a request from Ibrahim Rugova for Kosovo and Metohija to have the same state-law status, and this is a request addressed to so-called "the EU". to the international community, the same state-law status as Republika Srpska's. Why does Ibrahim Rugova no longer seek it? Why not remind him of it by anyone from the United States or some other country. They are asking the European Security and Co-operation Organisation to allow their emissaries to examine what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, so that they determine what measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take, what is it that we must do to make them pardon them. How can we respect and listen to someone who excluded us from their membership? Is there any place? Is there any logic in that? Many from the world have said that Serbian police, and even recently some Serbian paramilitary, have invented, of course, the abuse of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, they are "poor and threatened". To add a little bit of what Mr. Perucic said to this speaker, foreign information, foreign and public opinion is not a bit fond of us. They have already hailed members of the terrorist gangs in Kosovo and Metohija as some kind of likable guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation Army. They forget what the real status of these people savaged in southern Serbia is. And it doesn't occur to them to change something like that. When they say, and in each of their reports they note it and do not forget to skip, that 90% of Albanians are in Kosovo and Metohija, the question arises, firstly, on which list it is, and secondly, how many percent of the British on the Oakland Islands, how many members, as someone said today, of the Dutch in the Arabs and some others? There's not one. But that's why they fought a bloody war and would lead him to extinction, if some others hadn't signed the capitulation and accepted that those territories, in which there are none, belong to them at all. As far as the media sphere is concerned, if I were to say a little bit about it, I wouldn't have much, so from the domain of my ministry's jurisdiction. The US Information Centre is a genuine logistics base and support for Albanian separatists. Everyone here knows that. They run a media campaign. Everything that happens and how it happens, they are able to play differently, in a completely opposite way to show real events, to assist the Cypriot separatists in everything, and to say afterwards that they are down there only to establish a degree of violation of the national rights of members of the Albanian national minority. Someone will say that we may be xenophobic, that we do not want to cooperate with the world. That's ridiculous. We love watching both French and American movies, if they're worth it. We think they should also watch good Serbian films, good Serbian theatre plays. We have many beautiful mountains, rivers, let them come, let them ski, let them bathe, or fish, they will be our dear guests. But we do not need them as political emissaries, which will determine the political future of a part of our country, sovereign Serbia. They did not ask us what status California will have, what status Bavaria will have, what status Alsace will have. We will not ask them what state-law status Kosovo and Metohija should have. The Serbian Constitution has set it for us, the citizens of Serbia, by trusting MPs in the National Assembly and this government of the Republic of Serbia, they have already said enough about it. A short time ago, a SPS representative here insulted members and representatives of the SRS, and resented government representatives for, for, for God's sake, answering the charges of some other political parties. Well, you don't think anyone ever walks into the government, that he's being rude or dumb, so he's not going to answer to his political opponents, he's going to let them attack him without doing anything. I would never use expressions like that: stupidity, shortness of mind, etc., but someone else dictated it, someone else thought of it. But don't forget that members of this government and representatives of the Serbian Radical Party have never supported the bombing of Republika Srpska by the NATO Pact. And the man who had just been behind this speaker literally said that NATO is not unilateral and that the actions of the NATO Pact must be supported. This will never happen to us, and that is why we call once again, and we are sure that if the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people, if the MPs and the National Assembly decide to call the referendum, they will say they do not accept foreign pressures, foreign blackmails, or as someone said on TV the other night -- just don't help us again. Thank you. We can do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u412	Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Seselj asked to speak to MP Ivan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u413	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have been patiently sitting for hours waiting for Mr Kovacevic or someone else from his parliamentary group. However, they took the opportunity, when I went outside to respond, to deny me. But, in fact, what Mr. Ivan Kovacevic achieved, he just confirmed my morning finding. What Mr. Ivan Kovacevic was saying is new delusions. First, delusions about plan Z-4. The Z-4 plan was so bad that no serious Serbian politician or any serious Serbian party dared accept it, neither from Serbia nor from the Serbian Krajina, nor from the ruling or opposition. He only accepted the SPO. Mr Kovacevic listed the Z-4 Serbian Krajina plan as having the president of the Republic, parliament, government, coin, flag, coat of arms and national representatives, etc. The point is, of course, he covered it up. As planned, Z-4 Serbian Krajina is only taken to 1/4 of its territory. The Z-4 plan did not cover eastern Slavonia, did not cover Baranja, did not cover western Slavonia and halved the western part of the Serbian province. There was no Serb politician who could accept that. Of course, the whole Serbian province is now occupied. But the result would be the same, with more or less spilled blood. And if the Z-4 plan had been accepted, there would be no survival there. That's the point. Secondly, Mr Draskovic sought the Croatian flag on Serbian Knin several years before the occupation of Republika Srpska. And it is no accident that Mr. Draskovic, since 1991, should never have gone to the territory of Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska, nor to his native Gacko. That fact speaks a lot. It is good that today many SPO MPs have supported the referendum and supported the rejection of foreign interference in our internal affairs. It's an important shift in their political orientation. But until yesterday, their party's leadership required internationalization, internationalization of the truth, as they said. They say the truth is so true on our side that simply the Western forces cannot, but they can rule in our favor. And the truth was on our side in the case of Republika Srpska. The truth was on our side in the case of Republika Srpska. What's the matter? There was a bombing, there was a bombing of Serbian children, Serbian villages and cities, Serbian schools and hospitals. Which is proof that Western forces are not handled by principles, not by law and justice, not by humanism, but by interest. And in this case, their interest is to break Serbia and destroy our people. And this time, Serbian enemies materialized in Albanian separatists are helping. That's how they worked on both Serbian Krajina and Republika Srpska. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this text that Draskovic just dictated to Ivan Kovacevic is concerned, it is nothing new. As for truth and lies in politics, there are a whole series of examples, but I would not burden the National Assembly with it. You know, Mr. Draskovic recently sued me. I'll go out to the preparation hearing tomorrow. With great pleasure, I expect this trial. There we will prove who in politics used lies and deceptions. The evidence is so much that many honest and honest people in your ranks will be ashamed that they were ever members of the Serbian Renewal Movement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u414	There is a word from MP Goran Jocic. Let Milutin Đuric, a Messenger of the people, be prepared. I'd like to inform you that there are 10 other discussions that have been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the political stance of the Serbian Radical Party is clear. We respect members of all national minorities, all citizens, regardless of race, religion and half. We respect all citizens of the Serbian state who respect the Constitution and the laws of the Serbian state. We advocate that all be leveled in rights, but we strongly oppose that certain groups of citizens have more rights than others, whether they are Turks, Serbs or Shipari. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. Kosovo's status is resolved by an existing constitution. We'll solve our problems on our own, without any foreign intermediaries. I am sure that the Serbian government's proposal, which we are discussing here, will support the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia and will resolutely oppose foreign mechanics, who would look everywhere and anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of Serbia is a sovereign state and it will be so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u416	There's a word from MP Milutin Đuric. Let the People's Messenger Milos Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u417	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President, will not be the first time for the People's Parliament of Serbia, the largest People's Democratic Home, to talk about attempts to claim Serbia and Yugoslavia, attempts to move this people's fate beyond the borders of this country, to divide a sovereign state into parts that will be easier to manipulate economically and politically. And this time Serbia is on the agenda of numerous meetings to call the group and quasi the institutions of the democratic world system, but with the goal of giving it another blow, along with countless tasks and advance plans. This time, Kosovo and Metohija, the cradle of Serbian civilization, the hearth of the oldest state in the Balkans, precedes all of the latter Yugoslavia. The cradle of a Serbian and a vasda, according to them, should be the centre of Albanian separatists. According to the scenario of the West, Kosovo and Metohija should be Serbia's third republic, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and then Sandzak, then Vojvodina and so on. All of this is followed by a well-known set of parliaments to another world institution in the world repeating the same concern about democracy in Serbia, fate and rights of the Albanian people, which they care about as much as any who can affect drug and world affairs of crime, arms trafficking, environmental waste and old technologies. That is why the West wants Kosovo and Metohija to be treated as the problem of Yugoslavia, as a European and world bauk, in order to finally achieve the goal of which it began in 1991. By what way does the Serbian Parliament's speaker have to be a basis for truth, justice and preservation of the country's integrity, which has taught many others democracy and peaceful politics. Once again, this must be a pay phone for which MPs will forget all political disagreements and turn to defending Serbia's honour and preserving the country. Obviously, the hour of truth has come and a decision beyond which there is no withdrawal. Justice and forgiveness are not for anyone, as Brankovic once did, to betray Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija were a place and other place for great battles, but also victories, not only for song, but also for the lives of the Serb people. When we talk in this House about the rights of democracy in Ireland, Basqueia, the French departments or the American republics, which they would like to secede, but have been prevented by the power of weapons, will we allow the name of Serbia and Kosovo to withdraw from the unloved to the unloved? We won't. Serbia is an open-hearted country. We are a people known for their hospitality. The salt and the cake will wait for anyone who is well-intentioned, but not one who brings a knife to the Serb people's throat or another hatisher. We learned a lesson about Kosovo and Metohija a long time ago. We paid dearly for our experiences to repeat some mistakes. That is why I deeply believe that the referendum will be the only and the right way for citizens and people of Serbia to say that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is the internal issue of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u418	Thank you. He has the word of Ambassador Milos Jojic. Let the People's Messenger Miodrag Disic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u419	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is well taught by the experiences of the good intentions of the Western forces when it comes to Serbian interests. This was shown in the previous war in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska space. It is indisputable that we experienced a real debacle in that war. Now they want to move to Serbia according to a long-planned scenario, to "help us again". Well, we don't need their help anymore. We Serbian radicals long ago predicted that what is happening to us would happen to us. And before, above all, we have pleaded against the internationalisation of the Kosovo issue. If the people of Serbia would allow the participation of a foreign factor in resolving the Kosovo-Methohic issue, that also means the right to arbitration. We know very well what the international community's fondness for separatists is. We know they're 1981. For more than 30 years, Cypriot separatists attempted the violent secession of Kosovo and Metohija, leading a policy of intimidation and persecution of Serbs from their centuries-old hearths. We know that Kosovo and Metohija are now dealing with classical terrorism. In all civilized countries, such terrorism is prevented by all means in order to preserve the peace and security of citizens. Our government has prepared and shown good will to sit at the table with authorised representatives of Albanians, with the willingness to discuss solutions known in the world in the area of autonomy and national minorities. Kosovo and Metohija represent the all-Serbian national interest. When it comes to that, there's no other interest. There must be a political consensus between all patriotic parties on the solution to this issue. I'm very sorry that Joseph Kasa is not present today. If the exact claims are that Mr. Kasanajavlje will ask the competent federal authorities to serve the military term in Vojvodina, I believe that Mr. Kasa, and here today Chanak, a direct instigator of the unfavorable actions and events, which took place in the same scenario before the war of the former republics in the SFRY, and that they are very comfortable in making such statements. Finally, if we were not so complicated about Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, at least let's be complicated now, when it comes to Serbia and we'll be as strong as we are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u420	Thank you. There's a word from MP Miodrag Disic. Let the People's Messenger Milun Baraq be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u421	Fellow MPs, Mr. President, in discussions of some MPs today, this referendum issue is seen as a matter of war or peace. Even some MPs from some parts of Serbia are openly threatening that they will not be able to do so. It may be a referendum issue once, unless we are able to defend Serbia and our people by other means and means. An ancient duke said a sentence long ago, which I will read to you, "Let the war bear peace, let peace prevent war." All of Serbia's national history could be found in this sentence. What should Serbs do today, when the war on Cosmet, which has lasted in all its sights since the great settlement of the Serbs, has not brought peace? When this deceptive peace, which we have established occasionally in the constant war, is unable to prevent a new war. What should the Serbian people do, the awareness of the present and the constant war have not brought peace? Should he listen to this ancient warrior, and say, "Peace, war must prevent or be defined as the first part of his sentence and start hitting war drums?" Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is hit today by Catholicism and papocratism, Serbia is a obstacle to achieving the global interests of Western forces and to disrupting the new world order. We today have no right to defetism and passivity, nor this new government of ours, nor this congregation, nor the Serb people in general. We must not have the illusion that by giving in, concluding any agreements, we will pardon the Western forces to realize that Kosovo is an internal issue of Serbia and that we, in a direct conversation with the Albanian national minority, will address it according to the highest democratic standards and democratic principles within the constitution of our state of Serbia. And he has to be the only platform. We heard here today that the government doesn't have a platform, that we need to adjust the platform, that we need to form a round table on Kosovo. Well, we're not going to ask all the registered political parties, and you know how many there are and we know all their leaders, what kind of platform they have on Kosovo. Where would that take us? This deceptive peace in Kosovo will last, and only so will it be in Kosovo, if special status is established in that territory, if Kosovo gets the status of federal units within the SR of Yugoslavia, the status of a constitutional unit. All of this would delay a more or less future conflict in the area. We can't afford to do that at any cost. It's all just solutions that, you see, these days and suggest so-called. the international community, i.e. Western forces, solutions that are currently going in that direction. And with those positions, resolving the issue of the Albanian national minority. If we ever needed awareness of the indivisibility of Serbian state territory, it must be expressed today more than ever. The Serbian people should not strike war drums, I and I do not want to invite him from this pay phone to do so, but must not allow the deceptive peace in Kosovo to be a solution in the interest of Western forces. It must not be an alibi for the loss of any part of Serbian state territory, especially Kosovo. Today it will be Kosovo, tomorrow Stara Raška, then Vojvodina, so perhaps what remains will come to one's mind to separate the Woodland, perhaps the Sword or the Jadar. Our position on the integrity of state territory, our non-compliance with colonial status, as we are offered, on the American protectorate must be clearly spoken here in this assembly and felt in every move of this new Serbian government. I hope the people in this referendum will say it out loud. As far as the referendum itself is concerned, he has his own meaning and his own weight. I believe that the referendum should also become a permanent responsibility and verification of all those who work on key months or are in a position to make important decisions. We can't ask ourselves now, and today we've had our chance here to wonder why we haven't asked the people for this or that at some point. If a previous government has failed to do so, it does not mean that the people are no longer allowed or unable to ask in the future. We now have a new government of Serbia, where radicals have taken over part of responsibility for the fate of the state and the people. If there is a referendum for the beginning of the national will and for the future, we clearly support it and call on Serbian citizens to come to this referendum. And in their will, we Serbian radicals never doubted and always respected that will. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u422	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Milun Baraq; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jemail Suljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we've gotten an impression from this pay phone, and that's good, that we're all united in one, which is that we should vote against foreign interference in our country's internal interests. We from the Srspka Radical Party, taught by previous experience, which we had on the case of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, where we had an example of the introduction of Western democracy, at this point we have the same attitude on Kosovo and Metohija, and we believe that it is time for Serbia to agree and tell the West that we are tired of introducing them and such democracies, from which our skin shoots. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a situation in Kosovo to defend the national Cypriot minority, to God that they were oppressed by the current Serbian regime. But that's not true. What would America, for example, do in a situation where she's being murdered by police officers, who are under official duty to protect every citizen in the country? Well, you know, normally, they fight terrorists mercilessly, and that means that every terrorism has to be destroyed all over the world, and that's the principle they stick to. Of course, only when it comes to the Serbian people does it not apply, which means we have double principles here, according to us, Serbs. The goal, therefore, is to break up the Serbian state. And we Serbs today have one happy circumstance that we have a strong and stable government, which is supported by 4/5 MPs in this House and such a government must respect the world. The government adheres to one programme and one principle, which is the constitution and law of this country, which must be respected by every citizen. If we Serbs respect it, if we adhere to the constitution and the law, then every citizen of this country must adhere and it is normal to have every right in accordance with the constitution and law. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have had in history a historic battle in Kosovo. Emperor Lazarus had no choice at the time. He couldn't tell the Turks: "You go into my court, enter Serbia and do whatever you want." Because he couldn't have done it then and after he did it to carry the sword and crown on his head. That's why we Serbs don't have a choice today, and we have to resolutely oppose that and that policy of the West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u424	Thank you. The People's Messenger Jemail Suljević has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of this House, I would really like to make my contribution as much as my intellectual, political and other opportunities serve me. But indeed, what concerns me, based on a number of debaters, seems to me to have no sense of political reality regarding the overall situation in which we are. It can be very problematic, especially if someone consciously doesn't want to be politically realistic. Such a policy is devastating and represents the deception of its own people and citizens, of course. And someone who isn't aware that he's not politically realistic, then he lives in error. I beg you, we must do well, when we step behind this speaker, think about what we're talking about - whether it's real or unrealistic. Because to express some views and views of the present, to the 21st century, and to form the attitude and political philosophy of the Middle Ages, based on mythological and epic poetry, will indeed lead this country and its people to ruin, because then it will not help us to complain together that the world does not understand us, that the world hates Serbs, that the world wants to break Yugoslavia and Serbia, etc. I am absolutely convinced that the world does not hate Serbs, that the international community wants to be well-intentioned in solving the political crisis in the current Yugoslavia. And this referendum, personally, I have nothing against the referendum, the referendum is a democratic tool to verify the will of the citizens, to verify the will of the people, but in this situation he is quite unnecessary, he is quite immaterial. Because putting in a situation and challenging the fate of a nation and of citizens and of this state and checking its courage is unnecessary, because both this Parliament and the president of Yugoslavia and the president of Serbia know very well, and the government, that the largest number of citizens of this country will say "no". (One voice from the O.R.: Then what's the problem? ). Now the question is, what's the problem? The problem is that you were scared. No, I'm not scared at all. The question arises whether representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia can find an agreement with representatives of the Albanian people in Kosovo. I am convinced that I cannot, especially not look for solutions within the existing Serbia-Yugoslavia Constitution. That's my attitude. Don't mind me. And in the end, it doesn't matter. What happens then? [[Sagar and disdain in the O.R.]] What happens next? If representatives of Serbia and Yugoslavia do not agree with Albanians in Kosovo, then certainly the international community will blame Albanians because they do not have international representatives, but will blame representatives of Serbia and Yugoslavia. In that case, what happens next? Then it's possible to expect Dayton 2. And then they'll call them there and dictate what they should do. Irregularity in the O.R. ) I ask you, to lead an intimate with the international community, with Europe, because we are part of Europe, surely leading in the future and to the failure to resolve all the major political issues that exist in this country. We need to be realistic, politically realistic, and we need to accept European and world standards. We often listen, and for this speaker today we have heard that representatives of non-Serb peoples enjoy all rights according to the greatest European and world standards. What's wrong with the Bosniaks in Sandzak? I ask the question, "What's wrong with us?" In Sandzak, police have been terrorist for eight years. [[Sagar and disdain in the O.R.]] Irregularity in the O.R. ) The military terrorised in 1992 and 1993. There are arguments for that. These arguments are not only my or the representatives of the institutions of the Bosniak peoples of Sandzak and Yugoslavia. These arguments are arguments from many NGOs, which are also here in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, Serbia, etc. as well as reports from international institutions. Some representatives of international institutions have visited Sandzak and other areas of Yugoslavia and Serbia and have convinced themselves. If you don't think so, that terror doesn't rule today in Sandzak over the Bosniak population, allow us to form a commission so you can see for yourself. If that's not true, then I accept that I'm being tried, please. Besides, that's why they have arguments. We need to get back to political reality. What's the matter with us, please? (One voice: explain.) Of course. (One voice: What bothers you? ). Everything. We must understand this - that my children and children of my children will never agree to learn only Serbian culture, history, tradition, geography, etc. They will learn both Bosniak and of course Serbian and European and world. [[Sagar.]] Secondly, we must be realistic, my people, we cannot agree, neither Novi Sad, nor Kragujevac, nor the King, nor the New Market, etc. That someone from here is always setting us up who's going to be the judge, who's going to be the chief of police, who's going to be the inspector, etc. The president is something else, and he decides by voting. [[(Zagor in the O.R.) One vote: And the President of the State.)]] Let me tell you something else, that there would be no delusion, because there really is a lot of misinformation for the last five, six, seven years about Sandzak, about fundamentalists, about extremists, about terrorists, etc. In particular, such misinformation was spread by the regime media. It is widely known that no party representative to whom I belong or any other party representing the Sandzak citizens, particularly Bosniaks, has committed any attack on anything that is Serbian or state or anyone. No attack has been made. After all, you know well about political trials, that about 45 of them were sentenced to 168 years in prison. They've served close to 100 years.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u426	Time, Mr. Sulyevich.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u427	I think it's very useful to hear different opinions. None of these convicts committed any crime or crime. Not to mention economic discrimination, national discrimination, cultural and educational assimilation and a number of other problems, which I hope we will soon have the opportunity to discuss specifically. What the Bosniak, Muslim National Council is looking for -- so far has been Muslim, and now Bosniak, larger Sandzak is nothing anachronous, nothing abnormal -- is exactly what today's Europe and the world has, what is acceptable to the democratic world. So these are European principles. What our request is, therefore, is that both this country and European models are regionalized, such as Austria regionalized, as Spain is regionalized...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u428	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u429	I'm sorry, take off my trip, cut me a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u430	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Seselj. - Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u431	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Suljević has made very difficult accusations against the political and legal system in Serbia and against the government in Serbia. Those charges have to be proven. You're talking about police terror, Mr. Suljević, and you weren't able to set a single example of police terror. What does this police terror consist of? You're talking about arrests, political trials and prisons. The only reason they went to prison was because of possession of banned weapons. Long pipes, as they say. That's all it went to prison for. As for the situation in the Raška area, above all in Novi Pazar, the government there has been too painful so far, allowing some people and groups much more than would be allowed in other parts of Serbia when it comes to violating positive legal rules. Smuggling was everywhere in Serbia, most of all in the Raska area. From here, people in convoys traveled to buy goods from abroad, for which no customs or excise duties or taxes or anything else were paid. The government was in pain, so she thought about doing it, so we could settle down a little bit, so when this verse gets through, she'll probably behave more normally. It seems to have worked quite in the opposite direction, so some political factors there have been raped, and it has drawn conclusions that it can be played with Serbian state territory, that it can be counted on supporting foreign forces in Serbia's breaking process, that it provides a chance for isolation, etc. You complain that your children must study Serbian history. What history to study, Mr. Sulyevich? (Suljevic from the city: Bosniak. ( bulwark) What bottle? Bosnia's history is Serbian history. The Serbian history of Kulin Ban, down to the last Kokoromanic, falls into Turkish slavery. You guys go after generations like this. Your generation, then a generation of your fathers, your grandfathers, then your great-grandfathers, and you come to the Serbian roots. What's next? You're going to make me deal with your family a little bit, and I'm going to show you exactly where you come from. Now you've launched a Bosniak nation and you want us to accept it for granted, and by yesterday, books have been published, proven to be a Muslim nation. And Kasim Suljević, one of the main ideologists, read his book, so Muhamed Filipović, then Maksut Rizvic, then Hasan Sušić, and many others. You wrote tons of books, all the woods were cut down to get those books printed, now all of a sudden you're throwing it away and let's cut new forests. Now let's prove you're from the New Market Bosniaks, and you haven't even seen Bosnia. [[Applause]] I will prove to you which of you are the Slaves, who are the Whites, who are the Vasojevites, who are of whom the tribes and when they received Islam. There were those who had received Islam at the end of the last century. Well, to see that and to be demystified once. Again, we do not dispute your full religious rights, even national. Consider yourself whatever you want. I love the Serbian people so much, and I'm so proud to be a Serb that I never think of forcing anyone to be a Serb if he doesn't want to. You don't want to be that, you don't have to be. No one's gonna make you. It would be humiliating for the Serbian people to force anyone to be a Serb if he did not want to. We're not little kids, we've been studying schools, we've been reading books, we've been doing science, I guess we know some fiction, we know some facts. Now someone's gonna launch you to be Japanese and you're gonna say you're Japanese. Someone's gonna prove you came from Mars and you're gonna tell the Martians. We're getting dizzy from these constant changes of yours. We don't have any more woods to print you books to prove what you're in. As for your commitment to foreign interference, and the Western forces that want to interfere, and once again they have not said what it is that Albanians do not have in Kosovo and Metohija, and they should have? What is it that is written in the United Nations legal documents, and in Serbia is not respected? What is it in resolutions, declarations of the Conference on European Security and Co-operation, without respecting Serbia? What is it in the Convention of the Council of Europe on National Minorities, and in Serbia is not respected? Let's see, finally, what is it, so if any small thing is shown that we don't respect it, that from tomorrow we start respecting it, and no one tells us what it is, but they do -- you have to talk, without any previous conditions, not even respect for the Constitution, not respect for Serbia, and we come to judge you. Now, no one will judge us on this soil and in this country. You don't have to count on it. [[Applause]] The Turks left a long time ago, and they'll never come back. Of course, I don't think I'm judging you for something you didn't do yourself any harm. There is one fact state -- in this country live people of various nationalities and different religions. It's up to them now to think - are we going to live peacefully, normally, or are we going to argue constantly and conflict? Both options are possible. It's smarter to live peacefully and normally. Interparty bickering will always be. Here, we've been fiercely clashing with Agoston's party for several years, and here's the Casino Party, which has been a newly formed party lately, and it's normal to fight, but that doesn't mean that Serbs and Hungarians are clashing across the Vojvodina. There's just no such conflict, no one's heard of them in the last few decades. We will continue to argue with your party, but we want it not to lead to disputes between various confesions, or various nationalities. Be whoever you want the nation, I don't care, but don't make me pretend like I really think that you're suddenly thinking about being. I can't pretend, I'll always tell you-- I doubt it, or, I have proof that it's not exactly like that. I've been doing social sciences, I'm drawing some conclusions, I've got arguments. Well, if you have stronger arguments, let's see whose are more credible. Don't make us pretend like we're all stupid, naive here, so we can be sold a candle horn. We want a state with a modern legal order. It's not easy to build a modern legal order, but we're building it. The fastest we can build it with the common forces of all political factors, which also doesn't mean that we all have to think the same thing. I have no intention of making you think the way I think, nor would it be good if we all thought the same, nor would there be democracy in Serbia, if there were no party bickering, if the authorities and the opposition were not fighting each other in the fight for some party, political interests, etc. We must preserve democracy, so we cultivate both controversy and conflict, and quarrels, etc. But in the political sphere, not among the citizens, and these weapons, which occurred in the Raška area, were initiated from the outside, timed towards the collapse of the state. There's no country in the world to tolerate it. And finally, those who urge you to do so, those who send you weapons, do not think well of you. They know there's not enough of you to bring down Serbia, and everyone can get hurt in that attempt to crash. You'd better stay away from it. You'll have a good life. It's never happened that Serbs oppress someone, that they torture someone. Why, on average, per capita, does the most Roma live in Serbia, perhaps throughout Europe, most in Serbia? That's what the Roma say -- because the Serbs are good people, so they don't torture us, so they don't haunt us, so they let us live the way we love ourselves the most. That's why there's a percentage of them in Serbia. This people that are most persecuted, all over Europe, are the freest, most normal. If this most persecuted people have no reason to complain about Serbia, Serbs, then there is no reason especially for those who are the closest to us to us, who is also of origin to us, regardless of what other religions are. Well, creed is every man's private business, according to the Serbian constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u432	Thank you. There's a word from MP Sanja Cekovic. I have a question for the government. Please, no, please, no. The Deputy Prime Minister has the right to react to your statements, but it's not a replica, no, no.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Renewal Movement believes that the most obstacles to the heroism of all of us is that Europe, America and the whole world of us learn a lot of things that they don't know about Kosovo, because half a century here are the most cruel forgeries of Kosovo's truth and commit crimes against the Serb people in the area in which we were born as a nation. Who knows in the Contact Group that at the beginning of World War II, after all the centuries of persecution by Serbs, Albanians and Serbs in Cosmet was about the same? Who knows that during World War II, Serbs had two anti-fascist resistance movements, and that Albanians in the service of a fascist occupation from Kosovo expelled more than 100,000 Serbs and killed about 20,000 Serbs? It was only two days ago in the New York Times that a fraction of this truth was miraculously revealed. Who knows that at St. Sava in 1950, under the orders of the new communist government, the church of Christ the Savior in Đakovica, the monument of 5,000 Serbian children who died of hunger in World War I, when the Serb army retreated through Kosovo and Albania? Who in the world knows that the bricks of that church, the martyrs, were built public toilets in Djakovica? Who knows that between 1945 and 1990, about 400,000 Serbs were evicted and exiled from Kosovo? There is no reason for us to hide in the name of whatever ideology this great crime against the Serbian people, in his own country. For us from the Serbian Movement, restoring truth and wisdom and fighting for democratic reforms are today the biggest defenders of both Kosovo and all Serbia. The world needs to know that we, Serbs, are the only Christian people in the world, who are not bound by time by Christ, but also by counting time for Kosovo. Kosovo is in Kosovo, but Kosovo is in every Serbian woman, and in every Serb. The Albanians live with us on that sacred land of Serbia. We can agree on everything, human and democratic, but there is only one thing we cannot agree on -- where Kosovo is, whether it is in Serbia or not. The president of the SP, Vuk Draskovic, often says that the Kosovo deed in the sky is in the hands of St Sava and other German people.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u434	There is a word from MP Dragomir Pavlovic, and let MP Zoran Nikolic be prepared I ask MP Zoran Nikolic to take his word, and let the MP of the people, Aleksandra Djordjevic, be prepared. [[A voice from the bench: Dragomir Pavlovic is not in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u435	The Honorable President, respected colleagues, the Republic of Serbia, as the democratic state of all citizens living in it, contains in its constitution the Institute of the Referendum, setting it as one of the most significant forms for citizens to exercise sovereignty. The decision to call a referendum today is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law and as such is legally valid. In the legal and political theory, the referendum is one of the forms of direct democracy to which citizens express their will on certain important issues. The collective of this democratic institute is the United States, where the referendum as a means of ratification of the Constitution was first applied in 1778, when the Massachusetts people said no to the constitution, which was proposed by the legislative body. Since then, the referendum has been widely applied in many countries, especially in Switzerland and the United States. We are witnessing that the upcoming referendum has drawn attention to the domestic and world public. The most common are critical estimates, of him being unnecessary, of making it difficult to solve problems and things like that, and we've heard about this speaker tonight. In these estimates, high-ranking representatives of countries, i.e. countries in which history has most often been followed by this way of saying citizens. With this attitude, they leave us in a dilemma, whether it only briefly remembers their own history and democratic fluids, or whether it's about hypocrisy and double standards of characteristic ideologies, so-called ideologies. A new world order? And the hypocrisy of double standards was too much and too much. Isn't hypocrisy when in the evening the former SFRY's collapse by the international factor offers good intervention services, which end with the Bandenter Commission's report, a report that carried out the international legalisation of the secession and was the introduction of a bloody civil war. Wasn't hypocrisy when the Socialist republics of the former SFRY eventually rewarded by international recognition and SR Yugoslavia's most cruel sanctions. Isn't hypocrisy when in Bosnia Muslims kill their citizens, and NATO punishes Serbs with radioactive air strikes. Wasn't hypocrisy when silences crossed hundreds of thousands of Serbs from their centuries-old hearths, as if it weren't the largest exodus in the 20th century in Europe. Isn't hypocrisy when those who called our federal state Serbia-Montenegro by yesterday, and now have a full mouth of Yugoslavia, in order to temporarily push Serbia's kidnapped and third federal unit called the Republic of Kosovo. In spite of all, this Yugoslavia has preserved enough strength and dignity to be the most active participant of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which has stopped the bloody civil war, to be the main factor of peace and stability in the Balkans and the protector of integration processes among the countries of Southeast Europe. That is why I also expect our neighbours, some of whom are faced with significant social and economic problems, to show concern for the common future and to give up the illusion that someone on the plate will bring them everything they need only if they accept the role that is currently intended to play, to engage in pressures against the SR Yugoslavia. And too ugly happened in a short time that we are convinced that the great pressures and efforts to internationalise the problem in Cosmet are for the sole purpose of tearing up Serbia and violent kidnapping of Cosmet, Vojvodina and the Rasca area. That is why we are obliged as parliament to accept President Milosevic's initiative and discuss the referendum, in order to get the citizens of Serbia's response to the pressures and attempts to break the country and strengthen the unity of the people and leadership. Dear fellow MPs, in the end, I would like to present in the next part of the exhibition some views from the corner of the environment from which I come, i.e. from the Southbanat region of our Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, Vojvodina as the national most heterogeneous area of the Republic of Serbia, which is an example and life-affirmation of the possibility of simultaneously preserving the national specificity and building life in a multiethnic, multicultural and multi-confessional environment. Thanks to the legal-political environment created by the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Serbia and the national equality policy, led by the SPS, which represents its permanent definition, members of 26 national minorities and ethnic groups in Vojvodina, including the Albanian minority, full expression, care and preservation of national identity and the achievement of civil and collective rights are possible. These rights are applied by a significantly greater scope and content than the standards and rights defined in international statutes and conventions. That's what we're proud of. Then why is this Corps of Rights and Constitutional and Legal Guarantees, which contains the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and which are available to all members of all national minorities and ethnic groups in the entire territory of Serbia, not only on Cosmet and on the part of the citizens of Albanian nationality? Probably because they are under permanent pressure and terror from political leaders, whose loyal behaviour of Albanians does not fit into Serbia's publicly declared secession programme. However, they must know that this Serbia will not allow it under any conditions, nor will the citizens of Serbia, who will allow their mass going out in a referendum on April 23rd and their determined -- no-one interference -- to commit their leadership to the fight to preserve Serbia's integrity, its freedom and independence.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u436	The MP Dragomir Pavlovic came, so I give him my word, and let the MP Alexander Djordjevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u437	Dear President, dear colleagues, I am an MP from the Klin municipality, whose territory this was the last disgusting act committed by Albanian separatist terrorist gangs. What I wanted to say about this is this: these people, who were killed in the Klin municipality, are not guilty of anything else, they are only guilty of not accepting terrorism organised by Albanian separatists. Simply, this way of fighting them as Shiptars did not respond, and their non-acceptation of terrorism cost them their lives. I have to tell you one thing, which is very difficult, especially for members of the Albanian nationality in Cosmet, which is that they are exposed to terror that is unremembered. It's a robbery, it's about rapes and ultimately the murders of people who do not support Albanian terrorism in Kosovo. I believe that the state authorities of the Serbian state must further strengthen the fight against terrorism, because the struggle that started in Cosmet has had a very positive impact on all the citizens of Cosmeta, because they are for a common life in Serbia. Otherwise, when it comes to the referendum, as far as Cline citizens are concerned, the referendum -- yes. As far as meddling in Serbia's internal affairs is concerned, no.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u438	There is a word from MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, the People's MP Dragoljub Pantic, to be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable President of the Assembly, today we have before us a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this referendum, on which the entire parliament should be declared whether it will be accepted. I think it is quite clear that the great majority in parliament will vote in favour of this proposal. Will the Serbian people accept that foreign emissaries tear apart our sacred Serbian country of Cosmet, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija, as our most sacred country, or will we resolutely resist these new pressures by the United States and Western forces, which give some unreal promises to the Albanian minority in Kosovo. The behaviour of foreign Western emissaries visiting Serbia is clearly aimed at creating new hotspots in the Balkans, creating unstable space and mixing into the internal affairs of a sovereign state, such as Serbia today. The will of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia was undeniable. For this reason, I am convinced that in a referendum, Serbian citizens will declare themselves in a large majority in the free spirit, as they have always learned through history to do. Those who broke up the former Yugoslavia (SFRJ) have sparked war in the former Yugoslav republics and are now making the same scenario in order to tear apart this part of the Serbian state, which is under the sovereignty of the Serb people. They threaten to impose severe economic sanctions. They think the people of Serbia will give in. Let them take care of their countries of the West, and let them leave us, we ourselves will resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is there are forces in Serbia that advocate foreign interference in Kosovo. Individuals are trying to scare the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, individuals like Nenad Cank and Dragan Veselinov, who are MPs in this assembly. But they are very few and have a small foothold in Serbia. The cynicism of individual opposition leaders consists of their statements that foreign observers should be allowed to come, to spread the truth to Kosovo and Serbia around the world. These foreign forces have also caused what is happening in Kosovo. They're best informed and they know all about it. To speak such a thing for this speaker by some MPs I think it is extremely unserious and at the same time to say that Kosovo is an inseparable part of Serbia. So, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is the internal issue of the Republic of Serbia. The issue of Kosovo is a blatant disregard for human rights in Kosovo by the government, and in fact it is the initial part of the scenario for the internationalisation of Kosovo and Metohija. I am sure that this assembly will make a huge majority decision on the calling of a referendum and that the Serbian people will go to a large majority for a referendum and are determined to say no to foreign interference and bringing foreign factors into the territory of the sovereign state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u440	He has the word National MP Dragoljub Pantic. Let the MP Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been various discussions today. There's been a lot of talk. I don't have much to say. But there's something I have to say on behalf of my constituents. It is to express my satisfaction that all political organisations, at least the serious ones in this assembly, have made a positive statement on the matter of the referendum. It's just the first step that's been made. The next and final step towards the goal should be the referendum. The move will be taken by the Serbian people. This will be answered by the eternal prayer of the Serbian people, which reads: God forbid the Serbs agree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u442	There is a word from MP Tomislav Penezic. Let the last reported debater, Michal Kertes, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u443	I'm from Raska region and Priboj. I'm surprised you don't have any commendable words for my neighbor from Sandzak. We're here somewhere. They spoke to us in pure Serbian and spared us simultaneous translation. We should probably look for a translator in the United States, because we do not know Bosniak. What they brought out here today is almost all lies. I'm a professor of Serbian language and I speak the language of the Wolf. Most Serbian citizens of Muslim religion, you know that we call them Serbs of Muslim religion, is not in agreement with the MPs from Novi Pazar. I think they're both from New Market. Believe me, the situation in the Raska area is quite different. Much of the capital is in Muslim hands, although they are in a much smaller number. You can see for yourself in Priboy. There are 20 per cent of the Muslim population in Prijboj, and the rest are Serbs. You remember, Zemun was criticised for building kiosks, and in Priboj he gives Muslims that on the sidewalk, where the bus station is, he makes a kiosk for selling mixed goods. I think I'm being watched by my Preboys, my friends, both Serbs and Muslims, because I have friends among both Serbs and Muslims. We're hanging out. It's not what you say. Gentlemen, if you've already asked, I must remind you that the first house to be set on fire (I don't want to develop a discussion about it) was the house of Prionic, the Serbian house, burned down by Muslim living, below Zabrnica, which is a Muslim Muslim. Therefore, I hope that the rest of the people of the Raška region, who are Muslim religions, will not be brought along, that they, as representatives of some radio station for Sandzak, will wish for a bloody Kosovo dinner, with which they will kidnap a piece called an independent Sandzak, where they would probably like to be named instead of these names, say: There is the word Shemsudin Beg or Jemail Agan.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u444	Thank you. There's a word from the People's Messenger Michalj Kertes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u445	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, before I read what I wrote, let me comment and address the work of the MPs, because today I was confident that we would be unique about the fate of the Serbian state. The insinuation of one of the leaders of a minor autonomous party in Vojvodina surprises me because it quickly forgets historical truths. The people of Serbia have always wondered and will wonder in the future. That's how it was 1988, 1989, and 1998, so it will be as long as Serbia lasts. As far as the Dayton Agreement is concerned, peace and Republika Srpska, two major liquids for the future, have been provided. Yugoslavia has an army. As far as the figures are concerned, that army is enough to defend itself. The Serbian people were never conquerive, except when they were chasing the enemy a little further from their borders. Eventually, if the leaders of that minor, no small-town parties call on another man's army, which can be understood, because a dream that was scattered in 1988 can continue to dream. They have the right to do that. As for the Vojvodina, no one has the right to behave here and speak about the citizens of the Vojvodina and what they think. They said 1988 what they were thinking. Autonomy isn't lost, it's confirmed. Statehood has been lost to help Kosovo and Metohija and, after all that has happened, the state of Serbia has created. Now we're at the beginning. In the end, I ask Mr. Sandzak, him and him alike, that no one takes the right to speak to themselves about national minorities and to take special care of them. We're so worried about our heads. I pray that future self-invited protectors don't care about us like this. We've had enough of that. So were the autonomists in their time. And now allow me, Mr. President, the honourable fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, those who have destroyed the former Yugoslavia, have parched it with the early recognition of the fugitive statesmen have laid down the rules of the game, intending to finish their work. This time it's Kosovo and Metohija's turn. I believe the proposed referendum will show that Serbian citizens do not want to separate the dowry from the country of origin for Albania's irregular wedding with Europe. We won't be godfathers in those weddings. I was born Hungarian, and I'm a Serb on my own. Not only because I speak better Serbian than Hungarian, and not only because my life has placed the largest number of my friends in the Serbs. If it is my honor to be Hungarian and Serbian to be American and Czech, it is my honor to be Hungarian and Serbian. The country we live in has a name, it is called and will always be called Serbia. Mixing into Serbia's internal affairs and trying to prepare the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from the country of origin only those hoping to win power in some new redistribution of government, under conditions set by the parties, will win power in Serbia. [[Applause]] The story of Kosovo and Metohija is an introduction to the story that the old Serbian Vojvodina remains the target of the captivating Austro-Hungarian ideas. We heard something similar today as the introduction of two representatives of no party. People, who fear that we will expose ourselves and our own to all kinds of troubles, if we do not agree to everything, literally, dear gentlemen, to all the proposals of the community that is represented as worldly, can be asked the question: Is it less dangerous to agree to everything? When the end of the 1980s in Kosovo and Metohija and because of Kosovo and Metohija began to break up the former Yugoslavia, the terrible majority of Serbs in the country and the world swore that Kosovo and Metohija would never and will never give to anyone. Where are these people now? Have they changed their minds? I don't think so. They're here and they'll tell us what's on their hearts. The habit of members of ruling and opposition parties to stand at every opportunity behind their leader and their leaders is known to everyone. This time it is not a naked habit to stand behind Slobodan Milosevic, this time because of the state we must stand before him. The need to negotiate with everyone and everything is reasonable and democratic. It is necessary to fear conflict, war and other horrors, but it is also necessary to fear the truth that by agreeing to internationalise issues related to Kosovo and Metohija, we should rot in terrible and sick peace. To conclude, there is a referendum before us, gentlemen, and a democratic defence of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u446	He's got the last debater, Zivorad Tiosavic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know it's ungrateful to be, as the president said, the last debater, but someone has to be. I could not miss today's opportunity and privilege, which I have as a national MP, that I could publicly state my position on the issue of all issues of the Serbian people, which is a Kosovo-methological issue. I must speak loudly and clearly as a Serb and as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, so that my grandchildren and those who follow behind me may one day read it somewhere. I don't know if there is or whether every nation in today's political scene in this world has its own Kosovo and Metohija, in spiritual, religious, state-of-the-art, in mythical terms, as the Serbian people have. But I do know that if there is such a people, with such a Kosovo and a Metohija, that you would not give it to anyone at any cost. Because there isn't such an unreasonable and unwitting nation in this world that would undermine its foundations, rip its roots and cut the branch on which it sits. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, these, as we have called them today, have crossed our thresholds. That's what we let them do. Now they want to cross our most intimate threshold, enter our country's altar, take our Kosovo and the Metohija. Today, representatives of some newly-compromised nations are scaring us with NATO-Pax and sanctions. We felt on our skin and the destructive power of the NATO Pact bombs and their sanctions. Kosovo and Metohija must not be given to anyone, not because of us, because this country's, it has been given to us for the temporary use of our ancestors, along with an amannet that we give it to our descendants stronger and more stable in every respect than we have taken over. That's why on April 23rd on the referendum ballot, I'm going to round up my "no" and all my "no" and all the "no" that come together that day will be one big "yes" for future generations, which should come after us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-07-0.u448	Thank you. Since no one has answered the floor, I am concluding a unique search of the motion for a decision. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to call a republican referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. I conclude the vote and declare: 193 against four, one abstention, one was not voted, a total of 199 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REPUBLIC REFEREND FOR THE DECLARATION OF THE CITIZENS OF SERBIA TO TAKE THE PARTICIPATION OF THE PARTICIPATION OF THE SECURITAL REPRESENTS IN THE RESOLVATION OF THE PROBLEMS ON COST AND METCHIA You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[buran applause]] I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? (don't want) Since no one wants a word, I'm concluding a unique search of the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the Commission's education for the implementation of the Republic's referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. For 194, against three, four abstentions, two MPs did not vote. A total of 203 MPs are present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on the Commission's education for the implementation of the Republic referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. With this, our agenda is exhausted. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll see you at the next session.
