ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1408	Dear President, the Presidency and MPs, the reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows: It is only about amendments to the law in 20 criminal acts, in which the amount of money appears as an element of a criminal offence, either as a basic form of that crime or as a special form of criminal offence. The amount of cash, contained in these criminal acts, determines, in practice, the severity of the penalties threatened and is subject to the actual jurisdiction of the court. It depends on whether municipal or county courts will be tried in the first degree, which also determines the jurisdiction of the second-degree court. In the current situation, since these amounts were last established on 14. Seven. In 1994, the amounts now contained in the Criminal Law no longer meet the requirements of criminal policy, nor the principles of the distribution of real jurisdiction, so it happened that the Supreme Court, engulfed in a second-degree action of appeals against judgments brought at the level of district courts. This is contrary to the definitions and intensities that the Supreme Court, as the highest court in the Republic, shall be responsible for the conduct of extraordinary legal remedies and other jurisdictions as the highest court in the Republic, such as taking legal considerations and views. That is why this proposal is, so these amounts, contained in criminal acts, have been increased between 10 and 15 times. Because there have been misinformation in the media these days, I must stress that it is not about increasing fines, the majority of the amounts as elements of the crime. Although this law has not yet been passed, it is already, when announced, widely supported in the full legal frameworks, both by prosecutors, judges and lawyers, because practice required the need for this law to be changed. (Mr. Milorad Mircic began to share some material in the Assembly Hall, so the president of the Assembly warned him:)
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1409	Mr. Mircic, please, you can't share it in the assembly room. You can't share any materials in the congregation, except those that are official materials, please. Security, please take those materials out. Mr Mircic, you are right, but you do not have the right to share them in the Assembly (votes: - looking for people). You can get in the hall, but don't get in the O.R. Please, Mr. Mircic, I will inform President Marjanovic of this. You've committed a serious offense, and you can't do it like a minstar in the government. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, last night we seemed to have two laws, which we should adopt in a few minutes and make sure everything was okay. It is a pity, however, that we have not given sufficient attention and the opening statement of Mr. Minster of Justice, as well as the very text of the law, which lies before us. In fact, Mr. Minister pointed out that this is the first thing that comes to terms with the real situation, which exists and makes it difficult to work, but not just for the Supreme Court and not just for its sake, but primarily because of those people, who need to respond and in terms of which there is a completely different practice in various places. In fact, entirely unreal cash amounts qualified certain actions as far more serious crimes and people were in fact faced with indictments, which are far above the social dangers of the shops they committed, because the theft was already on 151 dinar, although there is also a criminal act of petty theft. The courts found themselves in an extremely difficult situation, because in order to impose normal real penalties, they were forced to apply the provisions on the mitigation of penalties in the opposite way from what is stated in the Criminal Law. This has become a daily practice and daily problem, and at every meeting or meeting of lawyers, the question has been pointed out. It's said it can't be that way. Based on what is now proposed and what I assume will be adopted and what I support to adopt, it is doubtless the fact that now a significant number of cases will be completed before the municipal and county courts, they will not go to the Supreme Court. Therefore, the lower courts will be more burdened, significantly more burdened than they have been so far. This is a question that must be reflected today and the question of real assessment of the number of necessary judges in municipal and district courts. Nothing will reduce the jurisdiction of the district courts, as it looks at the first moment, because it will lose some of the first degree jurisdiction, but it will get a far greater part of the second-degree jurisdiction. In this regard, I think it will be necessary to react very quickly by the Ministry of Justice, to see what this situation is like and to propose appropriate changes on this basis. The second question, which is at this point of importance, is this. We still have no information as to whether in Montenegro, measures are being taken to amend the Criminal Law in the same or similar way, because it would be absurd that there are so many differences in the territory of Yugoslavia, such as between the current Criminal Law and this, which we are to adopt today. Therefore, if we have information that there is nothing going on there, we would have to, either the competent ministry or the government to initiate certain changes in that direction, because the mood exists, given those experiences that we came to at the time when we talked about the adoption of a single criminal law for Yugoslavia. The third thing, which is undoubtedly important here, and this is also a special regulation of issues and a special relationship, whether we will have or will not have the criminal law of Yugoslavia. It is that this moment is far before a political issue but everyone else, but it is doubtless a question of who this situation should be cleared up, as this congregation has also made its own decision in time to transfer what belongs to its jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the federal state. In this bill, which has very little time left from the time it was filed until the time when we decide on it, there have been two things. First of all, such a law is not passed by emergency procedure, but it is necessary to bring it forward and we support it, so be it by emergency procedure, but there are no transitional provisions in it. It is necessary, after the move is taken, that the Ministry of Justice very quickly clears up issues that are otherwise regulated by transitional provisions, so that all of this can be done in a unique manner in Serbia's territory. The next thing I think we need to point out at this point is that we've made a selection of a large number of judges, mostly new, young, professional certainly, but inexperienced and in the doing of judicial work and in terms of everything, and we need to be aware that they will also be exposed by a change of jurisdiction to one great effort to start with serious things to solve from the very beginning. One more question, it's a question of assessing the work of judges and judges, because, let me see, up to now some of these cases were solved by judges, for example, in a district court that had a norm, I think, of four criminal cases a month to complete. Today these same cases will be transferred to the municipal court, where judges will be obliged to complete 15 such cases in one month.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1411	We've cut the standard.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1412	If the norm is reduced, in that sense something needs to be done. But the thing has to be cleared up that way so we don't face tomorrow if our judges have extremely bad results, because the number of cases can't end up in the situation they're in. So this is one serious, extremely serious law, a law that puts all things in one place. All the laws and all the provisions, especially in a situation where the rule of law doesn't work the way we want it to, two things have to be respected. It must be respected that everyone respects the laws, on the other hand, the laws must be so, to be realistic, to meet the penalties and penalties provided for, indeed, a degree of social danger, and not to get into the situation that we have now been in, that for things of certain social dangers we have been and have been far more severe than what exists in the whole world for such and similar phenomena. It is clear that whenever the situation in monetary and all other spheres is not cleared up, there will be a need for such interventions, if there is a need to do so every time the practice points out. The moment that all this is stable one day, when the dinar is stable, we will never again face the need to amend the Penal Code in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1413	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1414	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support Mr. Mikovic in everything. I would like to point out that the Republic of Serbia met with this problem in 1993, at a time of great hyperinflation while the prime minister of the government was Mr. Sainovic, who was supported by the strings that make up the government today. Then due to hyperinflation, the courts had to apply so-called. The principles of the application of a milder law in criminal proceedings, which means that if, in the meantime, it is from the execution of a criminal offence to the trial of an amended law, and this amended law is milder by the perpetrator, it will be applied. At the time of hyperinflation, it was necessary for the Assembly to sit down every day and every day to decide on amendments to the Criminal Law in this sense in which we are today making this law. Then the courts across Serbia acted unlawfully and deviated from the constitutional principle. The criminal proceedings were subject to the principle of milder law enforcement, justified by inflation, in criminal proceedings determined by an expert, to establish through skill the property damage or value of an embezzlemented thing, or the value of a secreted tax at the time of the crime and at the time of the trial, but depending on the criminal offence and the form of a criminal offence. In my experience and in my practice, I know that courts have worked illegally and unconstitutionally. Maybe it's because they weren't materially stimulated. Now we've removed that reason, so I hope it doesn't fit anymore. Mr. Mikovic rightly points out that following the application of this amendment of the Criminal Code, there will be a transfer of jurisdiction, i.e. certain cases will go to a lower level from the district court to the municipal court, so it will be more burdensome for the municipal court, and the district court will judge in the second degree. In addition, the law today looks forward to a large number of persons who are being prosecuted for their official duties. So, who are being charged by a public prosecutor, a large number of lawyers defending those persons, because in addition to the situation where the lower court will be tried, there will be a possibility of some crimes, where the amount of money is so-called. an objective condition of discrimination, that there is no longer any crime at all. These are criminal acts: Unwitting work in the service referred to in Article 245, endangering public traffic from Article 195, tax evasion of Article 154 and unwitting work in economic activity, Article 136. The criminal law of Serbia. So in the basic forms of these crimes, monetary values change. Here's what this looks like on the case of a crime in Article 245. - Unwitting service work. Article 245(1) says, "The official person... etc. It causes damage to the company by over a thousand dinars, it will be punished by a prison of up to three years." If due to the article in Article 1 of this article there has been a serious violation of the right of the other, or property damages that exceed 10,000 new dinars, they will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. Now in basic form, instead of the figure of a thousand dinars, it puts 15 thousand, and in a qualified form instead of 10 thousand, 150 thousand. If we had a person who at the time of the execution of this crime caused damage to his organization in the amount of 14,000 dinars, at the time it was 14,000 marks, and because of the various delays in the work of judges, or the use of some of the benefits of the disease of the defendant, now that person, which has made unwitting work in the service, is not even subject to this basic form, because in order for the basic form to exist, it is necessary for the damage to exceed the amount of 15 thousand dinars. I'm not saying I'm against the law. I am finally behind this law. But I'm saying that in addition to the above, the consequence is that qualified forms of crime become in a milder or easier form qualified, or become a basic form of crime, and that all affects the height of the threatened punishment. What will be the result of such a criminal policy, when we reward certain persons who have acted unlawfully, who have committed crimes, acts that at any time at the time of the execution were a great social danger, and now simply by the move of the feather, as some would say, we amnesty, gentlemen, it is up to all of us to imagine that this will in future preventably generally work on future perpetrators of criminal acts. But in urgent need, we must uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1415	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 188, against one, no one abstained, two, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. For 187, there were two abstentions, not three votes, and a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You got the report, but it was dated at 7th, and the date to stand is 8th December, so that technical error is respected. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in election units - 6 - Zrenjanin and 9 - Novi Sad, to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MPs were met, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 30(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - DUŠICI KARABENČI, candidate from the electoral list Coalition "Vojvodina" Canak - Veseninov in Election Unit 6 - Zrenjanin, and - MARIJAN RISTIČEVIĆ, candidate from the electoral list Coalition "Vojvodina" Dr Dragan Vesenov - Mr Miodrag Mile Isakov, in Election only 9 - Novi Sad. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, I find that the mandate is confirmed to the Members of the People: - THE SPIRIT OF KARABENCI and - MARIAN RISTIC. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. There's an apalaus in the hall. ) We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Violations You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration proposing to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law in the proposed text as well as a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. At the session of the Legislative Committee of Opinions, MPs Milan Mikovic and Zoran Jovanovic were singled out, and at the session of the Committee on Justice and Management, MP Milan Mikovic was singled out. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) He has the word Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1416	Infringements are those violations of social norms that make up some transitional form between discipline and legal conduct toward what is called a crime. Thus, they are more numerous than criminal acts, and lately, the number and type of crimes have conditioned the need to respond to the Law of Infractions. We went on to supplement and amend the law, not to pass a new law, regardless of which this is the tenth amendment and the addition of the law adopted and the main reason for it - although there were opinions, and I believe that there will be a discussion and that we should go to a new law - is that we must first have brought to the laws that are in preparation, because of how the courts will be organised and of the many issues that will contain this law, will depend on the position, the place and the role of the law enforcement authority. So, we should not prejudge, pass the Law on Infringements, possibly in general, prejudge some issues that will be regulated by future law on courts. What is the purpose of these changes and additions? The purpose is double. First of all, to enable more effective protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, who are at risk of a number of types of violations, and on the other hand, to allow for more timely management of the infringement procedure and thus the protection of the social order. I'm going to point out a few of the most significant newspapers that contain this bill. The current Law on Infringements provided for the necessity to replace fines with prison, when fines are imposed in a larger amount, with a mandatory prior attempt at forced payment. This proposal leaves out the inter-phase in the process of payment of fines and the solution offered is to replace any fine that is not voluntarily paid immediately with a prison sentence. As in our criminal system there are practically, the most fines are also stimulated that the perpetrators of this sentence are paid in good time and voluntarily, not to go to these other institutes for replacement and punishment. If a fine is imposed, only a fine, it can be replaced by a prison sentence, the longest for up to 30 days. If the offender is given a cumulative and fine and a prison sentence, then the prison sentence may last for up to 60 days, and for the most severe violations up to 90 days. It is an opportunity to say that these changes suggest a change in the value of one day in prison, instead of 20 dinars in the future one day would be worth 60 dinars. One of the important newspapers is the transfer of the conduct of the infringement procedure in the first degree from first-degree infringement authorities, which are municipal authorities for violations, to the authorities of the state administration. Of course the transfer is restrictive and applies only to certain situations and certain violations. In particular, these are only infringements for which the relevant regulation only provides for fines in fixed amounts. Therefore, in this case authorised workers of the competent national authorities shall carry out the infringement procedure in the first instance. In practice, this will most often be a violation of the rules on public order and peace, traffic regulations, regulations from various inspection measures such as the grey economy, because it is known that a very widespread phenomenon that I am referring to has spread, which is the failure to report an employee's workforce with pension and disability insurance funds, health insurance funds and many of our people working in fact are not protected by law, because they do not exercise adequate rights which often occur in the late years when a question of pension rights arises or when a case arises that would lead them to the need to provide health care. Therefore, in such cases, the competent authorities will be able to express and practically conduct a first-degree infringement procedure on the spot. If a citizen, a perpetrator of such offences does not pay voluntarily, on the spot, a criminal penalty, that authority would immediately hand over a solution that has the character of a first-degree infringement, against which it is possible to file a complaint to a second-degree body, which in this case is a first-degree infringement body, which is a municipal body for offences. In such situations, therefore, first-degree municipal law enforcement authorities are given the role of second-degree law enforcement authorities and their solution is final and executive. I note that only infringements are involved and that only fines are provided for in a fixed amount, so that these workers of state authorities could not conduct a procedure for serious infringements where a certain safeguard measure is provided for. In that case, only a judge can lead a misdemeanor. The next newspaper is the establishment of new protective measures. Two new safeguards have been proposed, which so far have not been present in our breaking legislation, which is a ban on a legal person to perform certain activities and, secondly, a ban on a natural person, a responsible person, to perform certain tasks. It is usually a measure that is present in many developed countries. We've been listening and reading about how we're closing the store in the West, and it's actually the most efficient measure, because if a private entrepreneur closes the store, then it's the biggest punishment in essence, because that makes it impossible for him to work further. Such protective measures may last at the shortest three months, and for the longest 12 months. Certain changes were also proposed in the status of judges for violations, primarily those raising the reputation and importance of judges for violations, by tightening the conditions for the election of judges for violations, so, in addition to a certain working experience now, instead of a previous examination for judges for violations, the same examinations that must be passed by judges, for public prosecutors and lawyers are required. So it's a stricter exam, and that's why we're raising the reputation of judges for violations, and I think that's what's necessary. The paper also suggests that some newspapers related to the resolution of judges for violations, most significant of which I would point out, is that the new reason for resolving judges for violations is if he refuses to comply with the decision to refer to work in another law enforcement body. To this extent, we have been instigating phenomena lately, because we have had situations that individual judges have refused to go to Kosovo, to help their colleagues there in recent events, when it was necessary and for the state very much needed. We also went to a change in the rights of such persons because it was illogical for someone who was relieved for these reasons to have certain rights, who otherwise had a face that was resolved because of other justifiable circumstances, such as the case for the sake of illness. Money fines have also been increased, so the future maximum fine for a natural person, depending on the offence, is between 100 and 10,000 dinars, for legal persons between 2,000 and 200,000 dinars and for entrepreneurs between 1,000 and 100,000 dinars. On the spot, fines can only be given to a natural person in the amount of 60 to 1,000 dinars, and for a legal person and entrepreneur between 600 and 10,000 dinars. Finally, this law envisions tightening the responsibilities of private entrepreneurs, who have been in a certain sense so far, it can be said, by law protected, and they could not be punished, nor could the fine be replaced by a prison sentence. Now, the position of private entrepreneurs, which we know, is often approaching by their importance and effects of their activities to legal persons, businesses, etc., so their position is approaching to a considerable extent the positions of responsible persons in legal persons. It's the most significant newspaper this law has ever passed. We believe that they are socially useful and justifiable and at this point many of them are necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1417	Thank you. Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1418	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of questions that have not been answered by this bill and a number of questions that are undoubtedly contrary to the usual way of regulating these issues today in Europe and the world. I would first of all like to point out one thing, which I think is also mentioned by the minister, which I think is one serious reason why this law should not be passed today, but returned to the Ministry of Justice, in order to form a full law, in order to regulate all issues both of these and potentially controversial issues, and then again appeared before the Assembly. We have also pointed to the committees responsible, the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee, and I am not quite sure that it is very easy for one judge to have 10 texts in front of him "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", starting in 1989 until today. That's one thing. The second thing, in particular, was made one exception to the regulation of criminal proceedings, in the broadest sense, on our country's territory. It is, however, that certain laws provide for the existence of certain criminal offences beyond the criminal law, but in this area respects the provisions governing the procedure to be conducted, how they will be defended, how they will be accused, and all of this is regulated in one regulation in the Criminal Procedure Act, unique to the territory of the entire Yugoslavia. At no time did that change, even when it was determined that we had special criminal laws, and then the procedure was regulated by the single Code of Criminal Procedure. In this particular situation, when it comes to violations, we recently passed a special law, the Information Act, there are also specific provisions for a special infringement procedure. If that's justified then -- at this point, we're going to bring something urgent, in the meantime, a new law is being passed, this law on violations, and obviously, if it's wanted and it's supposed to stay, to survive -- then it was obviously necessary to bring into this law that different procedure than usual. Here you have some provisions that speak of a shortened procedure, and even of other bodies that will do so, but all of this has been introduced into this law. However, in a specific situation, there is allowed to be an exception to the fact that the procedure can be regulated in several laws. I don't think he can do that. Legal science doesn't point us to that, and I think it's the first and most basic failure of this law in this area. The other thing, we are by the provisions of the Information Act and some institutions that absolutely exist, and there were, solved in another way. It is a matter of justice and the issue of enforcement of a criminal decision. I don't think that can be different, because that's the opposite of certain constitutional provisions. Therefore, this was an opportunity, if it was thought to remain, to enter into this law, and that is not proposed. So that is another extremely serious reason why I should accept what I said at the outset. The third thing is - this is compared to all the violations in all the laws still one form of the general law. The law also provides for minimums and maximums that apply to all other infringements in certain laws. Only in terms of one area is said - we will not impose restrictions on this law, especially restrictions on more. It is a provision that states that higher fines can also be prescribed for violations in the field of public information. It is not done in this law, it is not defined in this law as a general law where there will be a limit, but it is said - e, in this area you can in some other law, and not in one law, because if the field of information is regulated by several laws, each of these laws will be able to predict a special violation, a special procedure, and will be able to foresee a special limit. I don't think that's how it works, that it can't do that, and that doesn't in any way justify that even now, in this decision on amending and supplementing the Law on Infractions, we remain in the case of a provision that has been introduced into this law, which was then introduced into the predecessor of this proposal, because it was introduced into the existing law, as such a provision. Such a transfer of jurisdiction cannot be. The fourth thing I'd like to point out -- you see, cash amounts, when it comes to fines, have been increased 10 or 20 times. When money amounts are at stake, it is only increased three times what a day of freedom is worth, because according to this law it is said - a day of freedom to replace a fine with a fine worth 60 dinars. Everything else is 10 or 20 times higher, but the value of the day of freedom is not 10 times more than it was when this law was passed, but it's three times greater. Therefore, it is obvious that this thing is of very little value on the scale of the scales and I am not quite sure whether such a solution and a relationship with the citizens, which should be answered, so that they respond if they are to go to prison for a replacement sentence, or if they are to go to prison, but no doubt in one way that they will be in accordance with all others. And, finally, with regard to the possibility of setting a higher fine without a limit, it must be assessed from another point of view, which is - whether the amount of fines in any law, if it is really so adjusted that it is essentially a form of confiscation of all property to one man, which is practically very often possible in the light of the provisions of the Information Act, is not it to play that decision that we have in the Criminal Law, and in that area, we have thrown out, that there can be no such measure that one person will be factually, not formally, factually confiscated entire property, because confiscation does not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1419	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic, who also issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is how does a citizen get to know the legal law that is in force, because it applies to the maximum "unknowing the law doesn't hurt". Either to subscribe to "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" or "The Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia", or already as they are called the newspaper, let's say in Cačak, they're called "The Official Journal of the Municipality of Cačak". Citizens do not do so, so they are informed by means of information, but the means of information are falsely informed. Here, I buy "Plas Public" this morning, and he says on the other hand -- that all former ministers, who were ministers with Prime Minister Zelenovic, so Mr Bozovic, and Sainovic, the current current current prime minister, will have a lifetime rent for the people. Which is not true, because we're witnessing that we didn't pass such a law last night. Therefore, the citizen does not have the means of information to be notified of the regulations in force. Here, fellow radicals show "Great Serbia". I couldn't read it. About this... I'm reading "The Voice of the Public," because it seems to me that it's at least under the control of these... [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] But they're lying. I've made sure they're lying, here, you're all witnesses.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1421	Let the MP speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1422	Just from one aspect, in short. Democratic legal norms are characterized by the great activity of parliament with these characteristics that issues of importance for social relations regulate the law. Unlike totalitarian regimes that regulate significant issues by regulations, or regulations with legal force. Therefore, the more the process of democracy develops, the less regulations and the more laws. It seems to me that this government is too much saving our MPs, thank her for that, and then she wants to take over for herself to prescribe certain social relations, i.e.. regulation of certain social relations, as it predicts that so far what has been regulated by law will now be regulated by the regulation. I leave it to everyone to assess how justified this is from a political point of view. Oh, it's about amendments. 12 and 13. Proposal to amend and supplement this law, which refers to Articles 44 and 45 of the Act which is amended. In Article 44, which has so far reads as "The First Body for Violations may impose one or more safeguards on the perpetrator when there are conditions for their pronunciation provided for by this or other law". Now he says, "It's behind words -- the law is stuck and added -- or by another regulation. "So, thanks to Vlad, we don't have to pass the law, it's going to make those regulations. Article 44, paragraph 3, reads: "The safeguard measure can be imposed even when the penalty for violations is not imposed, if such possibility is provided for by law". Now the legislator changes and says, "clears the shit -- provided for in the law, and replaces it with the word - prescribed." Also, thank the government, we will not pass the laws, the government will make regulations, or regulations. I should also like to thank the Government and Article 13 which amends Article 45. Article 45 of Section 5 so far reads: "The law can determine the mandatory confiscation of the case", and now it reads: "The regulation which determines the infringements can provide for mandatory pronunciation of the safeguard measure - the confiscation of the case". So, in general, the area of broken legislation is now under attack, where parliament is slowly under way and where the government assumes the powers of parliament. We thank the government, because it will work in place of the MPs. That's why ministers have bigger salaries, and they'll probably work harder. I'm afraid it won't just be the area of pre-fraction, so we'll see what the government's behaviour will be. All these remarks, well-intentioned, as an MEP, I present and propose, therefore, to the Government to take care of this trend in the future. Don't save too much on the MPs, don't make a lot of regulations, call us more often to pass laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1423	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. I put the bill to the vote in principle. It voted 159 against 23, the abstentioned one, not four, 187 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We've got quorum. ) I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on infringements in general. For 156, against, 27, the abstentioned one, not voting six, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Violences. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: - SLANIČKA PITANJA The first Dr. Nevena Petković applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1424	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I address you on behalf of the citizens of Gordje Milanovac, but at the same time on behalf of all other citizens of Serbia, who occasionally use the Ibar Highway, which passes through our municipality. On this important master's trip, it certainly represents one of the most burdensome cars in our country, there is one black spot, in the part between Mine and Gornji Milanovac, in the villages of Majdani and Svrčavci. In the course of this calendar year alone, dozens of serious car accidents occurred on that part of the road, in which dozens of people lost their lives either worse or more easily injured. The victims of this stock are most often not the people of our city and our municipality, because we all know the danger that lurks in this place, and that's why we drive cautiously on this section. Human lives are invaluable and any loss represents a tremor whose value cannot be expressed by numbers. Material damage caused by these accidents, then costs of care, treatment, rehabilitation, temporary or permanent disability, can certainly be expressed by figures. If we were to follow the frequency and weight of these accidents twenty years ago and to number only material damage, which came from them, I believe that the figure would be significantly higher than one serious reconstruction of this part of the highway, with the construction of at least another August tape, and certainly we should think about the reconstruction of the highway throughout the territory of our municipality. I must say that SO Gornji Milanovac has already taken certain steps in this direction, so adequate traffic signalling has been set up and August was built at a few hundred meters but the measures have not given the expected results. A few days ago, three other people were killed in this same place. The Ministry of Traffic and the Republic Roads Directorate are familiar with this problem. I ask and appeal - what do the Government, Ministry and Roads Directorate do to speed up all previous procedures and approaches to the complete reconstruction of the work of the Ibar Highway from Rudnik to Gornji Milanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1425	Thank you. Does a representative of the government want to answer the question immediately? He doesn't want to. ) In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the answer should be given to the MP within eight days, in writing. He has the opportunity to ask the question of MP Nikola Jovanovic. Here you go. Please, when you ask a question, tell who you're asking from the government, who you're asking right now.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1426	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the Government of National Unity. The government of national unity, as a government of national unity, I do not think it has a unique view of all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying this because lately, since it's been in power at the Trieste Coalition "Together", many ministers come to Triestenik and do not find it appropriate to contact the authorities. The Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Jovan Babovic, visited Tristenik, was in the Agricultural Combined, and was in one village, where the locals of that village welcomed him, and I guess he was in the local community. A decade ago, health minister Mrs. Leposava Milicevic visited Trstenik, along with Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Milovan Bojic. We all know that health care is in crisis, however, they came to the House of Health without any contact with municipal leadership. I don't think I get an answer from the government, and I don't have to get an answer from the government, but if this is the Government of National Unity, I think it would be correct that even according to municipalities in which the opposition is in power, they have the same attitude, because still in certain municipalities, where there is no Together Coalition in power, and when the secretary of a ministry comes, he makes contact with municipal leadership. This is my appeal that in the future, when the ministers come, they contact the municipal leadership, because still there lives the people, and we are in the end of the line only to the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1427	Thank you. Does a representative of the government want to respond? He doesn't want to. So, on the scale with the Rules of Procedure. There's a word from the people sent by Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1428	My first parliamentary question is: When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia give answers to my 21 parliamentary questions, which, as a national MP, I sent in writing on May 29, 1998? Let me just say briefly that these questions refer to the following: What are ministers, deputies and assistants, how many cars do they use, how many apartments have they received since they were elected to the Government of National Unity, Mobile Phones and Pagers, and who pays for it? Second question: Why does the Government allow interest on unpaid electricity, paid by citizens on the basis of estimated consumption, to be charged on 15th of the month for the current month, even though the decision on general conditions for the supply of electricity is intended for electricity bills to be paid by 8th of the month for the previous month? I'm asking this because I'm confused with the amount of bills I pay for electricity. And I asked at Elektrodition Leskovac in charge of the billing service how they calculate interest. I've been told they're calculating according to the decision on general conditions for the supply of electricity. The decision says that interest is charged up to 8 a month for the previous month for the estimated market share, not 15 a month for the current month, because it would practically charge electricity that has not yet been spent. So I ask the government to intervene in this case. I've also asked these questions in writing, but I'm going to repeat them now. I've set them up for 30. Seven this year. That's one group of questions, which applies to the same area. How many tenant rights holders at Serbia's level and at the level of municipalities to be evicted from apartments in the private property of citizens? What is the structure of apartments in private property of citizens now used by tenants, how many one-room, two-room, three-room, four-bedroom and larger apartments? Third question: How much money are needed to provide other habitable apartments for the resettlement of tenants at Serbia's level and at the level of individual municipalities? How much funds have been achieved from the distribution of dwellings to tenants, who have been seized by the right owners at Serbia's level and at the level of individual municipalities? Fifth question: Can the necessary funds be provided by 2000 for the purchase of other housing rights holders and from which sources at Serbia's level and at the level of individual municipalities? When's the state gonna solve the roommate's relationship in the owner's apartment? The seventh question in this area: Can the Republic of Serbia also provide apartments for the move of tenants to an apartment owned by the owner, according to the municipality's executive solutions?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1429	It's been three minutes, please. You have no right anymore. Thank you. He has a word on his native representative Jemail Sušević.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1430	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament's remaining MPs, I have a question for the government or possibly the competent ministry to answer. It is this: Has mass terror in Sandzak against the citizens of the Bosniak Nationality preceded a decision, or has such terror been committed on the basis of some discretionary law of the competent authorities, of course, if such a right exists? Is it allowed to physically torture the detained persons for extortion, and if it is innocent persons, such as Sulj Muratovic of Žitnic, Gigal Mustafi from Trijebin near Sjenica, Kukić from.... who had been beaten by two ribs, Amidadovic of Beza, who had suffered from the force of impact and, of course, many others, hundreds of thousands. That's what the data is for, the arguments. These faces exist, some have been treated in hospitals, photos and medical records. Do the government's competent authorities have an accurate record of the number of burned, destroyed, demoted houses of citizens of the Bosniak Nationality in the municipality of Prboj? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1431	There's a word from MP Biach Antal.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1432	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister's Government, my question is brief and simple, I ask it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or to the Ministry in charge. On several occasions, the subject asked for the status of the city. Not that it was not received, but it was not even given any answer to that request from the Subotics Community Assembly. I won't bother you with various socio-economic structures of Subotica, with neither urban nor economic, nor with infrastructure, nor with any socio-cultural features of the settlement. I simply ask the question: What should the municipality of Subotica do to get an answer to that question, because we think that Subotica is still a door for Europe and we want to improve that with the status of the city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1433	Thank you. There's a word from MP Tihomir Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've written my questions and I'll read quickly. I'm speaking to the Minister of Sports and Youth. The Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998 in Section 24 - Ministry of Youth and Sports, under point D "participation for construction and maintenance of sports facilities" planned 31,900 dinars. First, how much funding has been spent from this position so far? Secondly, what criterion was used for the allocation of funds to users, if the funds were allocated? If allocated, indicate the cities and municipalities to which these funds are allocated and specify exactly for which purposes they are allocated (starting of construction of a sports building, completion of construction works, roof covering, construction of heating installations etc.). Second question, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management: When will the consent be given, i.e. a designated land return commission in the municipality of Pozega under the Law on the manner and conditions of the recognition of the right and return of land that has passed on to social property on the basis of the agricultural land fund and the confiscation due to the non-execution of the compulsory purchase of agricultural products? Namely, the Assembly of the Municipality of Požega, held at session 14. 2. In 1997, she adopted a proposal for a solution on the education of the land return commission and delivered it to your ministry in 21.2.1997 under regular number 462-5/96. So far, three urgenities have been performed in writing: 28.8.1997, 9.1.1998 and 9.6.1998, but no answer has been received. A third question from the minister of ties with Serbs outside Serbia: Will the Serbian Government also write down claims for energy for refugees and exiled persons, located in collective centres, as well as for families located in individual accommodations, which are unable to pay for spent electricity because they are elderly, exhausted and sick? Fourth question: On the basis of Article 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia raise the question to the Ministry of Transport and Communications: On the territory of the municipality of Požega, on the regional road of Požega - Divcibara in the village of Čestobrodica, there was a bridge that was torn down due to the elementary disasters in 1982. On the orders of the Republic Roads Fund, emergency intervention and resolution of the resulting situation occurred with the construction of the pipe bridge. The pipe bridge was built according to a temporary project and according to the approved funds of the Republic Roads Fund, it was built as a temporary solution for the longest two years. Since it's a bridge on a river of mountain-mounted character and that the bridge is an inadequate solution, it's a strong rainfall of the bridge and the water is poured out and the blue surrounding houses and plainland surfaces. So far, no one has compensated the damage suffered by citizens on buildings, as well as for the damage caused on the sown surfaces. Will the construction of a bridge be a permanent solution in 1999? In the event that there is no bridge construction in 1999, I ask the Republic Road Directorate to take me out in what way will the bridge be cleaned so that there will be no flooding and will they make up for the damage if there is a swim?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1435	There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1436	Gentlemen, members of the government, I'm giving you a question. I'll ask you two questions. I think you need answers, either today, or on short notice. First question: Do you have any approximate data, what is the number of jobless workers today, at least among those who want to get a job? That's one thing. And, do the competent labour ministry, and at all, government, this is a subject, no doubt, which belongs to the government, see if in the current economic situation anything effective can be done on this plan? The second thing, is there a perspective for the changed conditions in which we will live and work, and the government is working, are measures already being taken today, what should be done about it? The second question, I think it was sent to the finance minister, but also to the entire government. The Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund shall have certain powers to control the payment of contributions. Is there anything done on that side? Is it on this side that the government is asked to take those measures that it has the right to take after the intervention of that fund?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1437	There's a word from MP Ramadan Ameti.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1438	Dear MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I will ask two questions to the government. First question: The first question concerns election units. Election units are regulated by law. The municipalities are regulated by the statutes. Bujanovac municipality has regulated the electoral unit so that it has unequally deployed an Albanian animal, which accounts for 61%, and out of 41 council members, there are only 13. For this, we complained to the Constitutional Court of Serbia and he found himself incompetent. What can the government do about this? Second question: By law, the language and letter of members of the people and peoples are used. In addition to Serbian, the language and letter of nationality are used. Some municipalities have regulated this issue with their statutes. Bujanovac didn't regulate and this isn't in use. What can the government do about it?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1439	There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1440	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question for the government, but I am obliged to give a brief explanation. Popovic Djura and Nikolina are pensioners of Zajecar. They came to me in an impromptu MP's office, after Zajecar municipality took the MP's office, and they brought me as much data as they can get for regular checks at Zajecar Health Center. They're chronically ill, and they have to go to check-ups on a regular basis. When I compared it, it turned out that their pensions weren't enough just to cover the treatment and everything else couldn't be counted on. The interesting thing is that the government has prescribed a treatment method, i.e. a payment of participation. However, the Management Board of the Medical Centre in Zajecar introduced additional participations according to its own opinion and directly deviated from what the Government had prescribed and additional burdened. So these people can't even be treated for what the government has prescribed, and this other thing that the Medical Center prescribed, it's out of mind. At the head of the Management Board is the man Isidor Markovic, who was an MP in the previous term, otherwise he is the director of the cable factory. He certainly has no financial problems and no understanding for these people. I will read to you, if the time allows me, the letter that the Independent Border Union has given me - The Women's Section (I don't know how they are organised), about these initiatives: "I ask you, as our MP in the Republic Parliament, to represent the interests of all the citizens of Zaječar, to present and explain the request of the citizens of Zaječar supported in the form of a petition. "I have here a solid number of signatures signed by the citizens of Zajcar. So they're going to ask the government this question that I want to ask. I am very glad that they spoke to the SPO MP and considered him their MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1441	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1442	Question for the Government: Why does the Government allow for patients to be more participated in Zaječar than in other cities?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1443	Mr. Konstadinović, please, you've been using three minutes to explain, instead of asking a question, and you have the right to only three minutes to ask a question. I'll let you go now, and next time I won't tolerate it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1444	I am, Mr. President, the only MP who has never misused time. If I abused here for five seconds, then I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1445	There's a word from MP Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1446	I have two questions. One is for Professor Ratko Markovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. The second question is for Mr Dragan Tomic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1447	You have no right to question the President of the National Assembly, only the Government and the Ministers of RES.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1448	Mr. Tomic is responsible for the problem. I am MP Fevzija Muric, and I belong to the national Corps which until the fall of the former Yugoslavia, more precisely by 27 April 1992, the Constitution was recognised as a constituent and equal nation with the other five peoples. So we had all the rights protected. Unfortunately, on 27 April 1992, by declaring the Constitution of the SR Yugoslavia, my people were unilaterally expelled from the Constitution by political representatives of the Serbian and Montenegrin people. So, we're out of status. Because of the loss of constitutional and legal status over my people, a state terror has been committed over the past six years, resulting in ethnic cleansing of certain areas in Sandzak. First question: When will you correct this error and initiate a procedure for the Bosniak constitutional and legal solution, with respect to the opinion of the legitimate political representatives of Bosniaks? The question is for Mr. Professor. Ratka Markovica, who is the creator of this valid constitution. The second question: My second question concerns the introduction of a forced administration in the municipality of Novi Pazar on July 10, 1997, which was seduced without arguments. In court there was nothing to prove, nor did the courts do their writing. Forced administration was very brutally seduced, with demonstration and application of police force, with occupation of the municipality of Novi Pazar. So, from July 10, 1997 to this day, the coercional administration is taking place. My question is: Why has no elections for the municipality of Novi Pazar been called so far, and when will elections be called? Why can an illegal SPS and JUL-AD group hold power without electoral will in the municipality of Novi Pazar?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1449	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zivadin Jotic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1450	Mr. President, honourable MPs, in the Municipality of Žaguica, and in the town of Krepoljin there was an Earth Co-operation of Gornjak, which was founded by the pawnage, will and means of cooperatives right after World War II. The cooperative, due to bad business, ceases to work in the early 1990s. Since 1994 he has only used Safet Pavlovic, with the company - SAPA, in translation on Vlach means "Motika". He uses pubs, fun games, metal shops, food products, store space, both in Krepoljin and other villages. The former cooperatives want their cooperatives to use it for the content of their actions, and then to find out who the people who betrayed or gave for the use of their cooperative, in whose name and for what financial compensation? I believe that the Serbian Parliament can set up a committee of inquiry, examine and come to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1451	I thank you, the People's MP Novaca Radosavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1452	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the public has been very often speculated with a so-called plan to resolve the Kosovo issue, Mr. US Ambassador Christopher Hill. Since we often see comments and Albanian sides very often in the means of public information, so to speak, as well as statements by our state officials, it is obvious that this plan exists. My question is: Is the government of the Republic of Serbia familiar with US Ambassador Christopher Hill's document on Kosovo, since Ambassador Hill has met with this document Serbian President Milan Milutinovic and will the government meet the National Assembly and when? As an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement, I ask that Kosovo's fate cannot be decided by any individual, government, without the full consent of our assembly and people, because Kosovo and Metohija are not the property of any individual or government, but are the foundations of all Serbs. I'm particularly interested in this, because I come from Toplice, from a region which, I say, is a mining area in this small Serbia that will remain after the nadal politics and I'm very interested, like all Toplice residents, in order to get that plan out in public as soon as possible, because if that doesn't happen, we're going to have to organize ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1453	There is the word of the People's Messenger Ljubisa Selic, and the next is Stanko Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1454	Mr. President, honourable MPs and government representatives, ministers, first question - More and more citizens of Kruševac are coming to the room of the Serbian Renewal Movement with complaints that customs officers at the Dimitrovgrad border crossing are charging them with more customs duties than they are enrolling in certificates of paid customs. Since the Director of the Federal Administration is customs, Mr. Michalj Kertes, and also the MP of this assembly, I ask the question: What will the Customs Service do and do to break this practice in the future?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1455	Please, the question hasn't been asked at the right address, and the federal customs administration...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1456	It may not be set up, but I'm still setting it up.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1457	Okay, but you won't get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1458	I know how it happens, it's a matter of investigating organs. What is the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries doing to prevent the disposal and burning of garbage along the left bank of the Raska River, 10 km from Novi Pazar towards Rasko? In addition to the fact that our beautiful word, which springs and flows to the source of our medieval state, is polluted by a large waste dump that is constantly incinerated, all the waterways that pass through the central part of our Republic are polluted. This problem has been going on for years and the incendiary dump is a real mockery for all tourists traveling this magistrateal route towards Montenegro, towards the sea. The question concerns the Ministry of Ecology. One more question, if I have time, I think I do, I know you're in a hurry to work, but what do I do to you when you choose such a job, Mr. Nikolic, you wanted it. You got what you wanted and you'll get it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1459	Be kind, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1460	Please, I'm replicating at the expense of time. For years now, our country has recorded a large payment deficit in exchange with abroad, and the fact is that the companies that import live much better than those that earn from exporting goods and services. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer the question: Which companies (namely owned by social, private and public) have made the purchase of foreign exchanges in the current course of the National Bank, for the payment of imports of goods and services in dollars, for the purpose of importing equipment, repromaterials and broad consumption for 1995, 1996 and 1997. I'm looking for an answer for companies that bought over $100,000 in one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1461	I thank you, he has the word Stanko Starcevic, and the next one is Milena Andric, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1462	A question for the government, or vice president, but you'll understand. As a SPO MP from Cačka, I think this issue will also be signed by Miroslav Dramalic, Radical and Gradimir Alexic, the Socialist. What's the fate of the dump in Chačka, and what's going on with that problem? Explanation - for a long time the public in Cacca has not been informed of problems with the construction of dumps. After all the decisions followed by an unprecedented media campaign and pressures on the council members of the Municipality of Cačak, Parliament Speaker Cačak Velimir Ilic has repeatedly accused the government of the Republic of Serbia and particularly the vice-president, Mr Ratko Markovic, as chief braker for the implementation of the decision. He publicly stated that the appointed vice president was in contact with Dražimir Marusic, the president of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac Assembly, and that he was preventing the Parliament of the Municipality of Cačak, and thus the residents of the municipality from solving the burning problem. After talks he had in the government, President Ilic said the government of the Republic of Serbia would make up for all the damage caused by the inability to realise the decision, related to devaluation and the flow of time. The other vice president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, participates in these talks and promises. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to submit an answer to the question raised as soon as possible, as the problem of the city's dump in Cačka should not be a topic for political points, nor a polygon for any political accounts. The urgency of resolving this problem and the possible consequences of delaying the resolution of it requires all participants in this process, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia to seriously and securely resolve the problem. That's one thing, and that's another. Vladji: -- Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Vojislav Seselj said his party will produce 10,000 baseball bats to attack NATO troops in Bosnia and Herzegovina's unwanted foreigners. I ask the government: will the production of these bats be financed from the budget and how much will it cost? I didn't find it in the budget yesterday. Is the announced attack on the SFOR peacekeeping forces in Bosnia by the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia a violation of the Dayton Agreement, signed by our country's head, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1463	There is a word from MP Milena Andric and last reported after that, Predrag Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1464	Dear President, honourable ministers, since we are in a very delicate political situation with regard to Kosovo and Metohija, as a folk MP, I expected that here in the Republic, the Serbian Parliament will be presented with the Milosevic-Hollbrook document, especially because of the manipulation in the people and its tragic division of traitors and patriots. So there would be no confusion in the people, unless that's the point. My question to our government is, will this document be presented to us?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1465	Again, the question is referred to the wrong address. This refers to a document signed by the president of the Federal Republic and, therefore, the government does not have the document. There's a word from MP Predrag Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1466	Mr. President, members of the government, a forced administration has been introduced in the municipality of Titel. Given the past six-month legal deadline, I'm asking a question ahead of the Serbian Renewal Movement -- why aren't elections called?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-08-0.u1467	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? He doesn't want to. I thank you and see you at the next session.
