ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u257	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 200 MPs attend today's session. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are enough MPs present in the hall, and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Miroslav Dramalic, Zoran Jovanovic, Branislav Pomoriško, Radivoj Papovic and Slavisa Krstic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that the president of the Republic of Serbia has been informed of this session. I would also like to inform you that they are invited to attend this session: Mirko Marjanovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and candidate for Prime Minister, Vice-President and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Republic Public Prosecutor and President of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. You were presented with the minutes of the 1998 session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 19 and 20 February 1998. Any objections to the record? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 19 and 20 February 1998. I conclude the vote and declare: For 209, against no one with abstention 5 voted 7, a total of 221 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted the minutes of the 1998 National Assembly of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 19 and 20 February 1998, without objections. We're moving on to the agenda. As you have seen in the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, I have suggested only one item of the agenda - the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the second item be placed on the agenda of the session and, by emergency procedure, consider the proposal for a declaration of national unity, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March 1998. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to include, as a second point, the proposal for a Declaration on National Unity in the agenda of this session as a matter of urgency. I conclude the vote and declare: For 195, against 4 abstentions 5, did not vote 9, a total of 213 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. National MPs Nenad Canak and Ratimir Svircevic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the circumstances under which the deaths of civilians in the Drenica area occurred during Serbia's anti-terrorist action between 2 March and 9 March 1998, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 1998. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MPs Nenad Canka and Ratimir Svirčević to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the circumstances under which the deaths of civilians in the Drenica area occurred during Serbia's anti-terrorist action between March 2nd and 9th 1998. I conclude the vote and declare: 33 votes against 161 abstentions were not 14, 214 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. National MPs Dr Fevzija Muric and Šemsudin Kučević suggested that the draft decision on the education of the kidnapping committee and the fate of passengers from the bus line on the North-Priboj on 22 October 1992 and passengers from train number 671 on the Belgrade-Bar line on 27 February 1993, who submitted to the National Assembly on 2 March 1998. Does the MP, Dr Fevzija Muric, as the first-signed promoter, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u258	Mr. President, fellow MPs, a proposal to supplement the agenda for the abduction of passengers from the North-Pryboy bus line and passengers on train number 671 on the Belgrade-Bar route, we submitted primarily for moral, ethical and civilizational reasons. We believe that after five years, citizens and, above all, the families of the kidnapped citizens should be told the truth about missing persons. For this reason, we believe that you will appreciate this proposal, and later in the discussion, you will learn some more details, which are still unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u259	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by the draft MPs Dr Fevzija Muric and Šemsudin Kučević to include in the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the kidnapping committee and the fate of passengers from the bus line on October 22nd 1992 and passengers from train number 671 on the Belgrade-Bar line on February 27th 1993. I conclude the vote and declare: 43, against 170, no one was abstentioned, no six voted, a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts by the competent committees, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will submit their reports, i.e. opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals on the adoption of acts by emergency procedure, i.e. for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, we need to declare the agenda of the session in general. I ask the Members of the United States to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: The vote was 196, against 11, with eight abstentions, was not voted by three, a total of 218 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. The choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Declaration of National Unity (emergency procedure). Before moving to work on the agenda of this session, it is necessary for the National Assembly to make a decision on Members of the National Assembly at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, which has been made by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do any of the messengers of the people want a word? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a unique review of the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude the vote and declare: 214, against no one, with two abstentions, has voted four, a total of 220 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on Members of the People on Permanent Work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We propose to work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which is in agreement with Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic. Prime Minister's candidate Mirko Marjanovic, by letter of 17 March 1998, informed me that he had held consultations with representatives of parliamentary parties on the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and was ready to present a programme to the National Assembly and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the conditions have been met that: - the candidate for Prime Minister shall present his programme to the National Assembly and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (Article 92(1)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia), -- let us open a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government (Article 186. Rules of Procedure), - in the election of the Government, determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and the number of Ministers without portfolios and select the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister (Article 73 point 10). Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 5. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187. Rules of Procedure) and that - members of the Government take an oath (Article 6. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia). I ask Mirko Marjanovic, candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to present to the National Assembly a programme and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go. There is a word for candidate for Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u260	Dear People's MPs, President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milan Milutinovic, has entrusted me with the mandate for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose members, after the versatile consultations I have held, I will propose today. Let me explain her program before the government's election. The Government of Serbia programme is an operationalisation of a broad platform of state, national, economic and social objectives, which have been fully agreed on in talks by the Serbian president with parliamentary party leaders. The achievement of these goals will bring together all constructive, democratic, patriotic forces in Serbia, and the Government of National Unity will be engaged in their realisation. The priorities of the programme are economic development, an economically developed, unique and stable Serbia, as well as a guarantee of a strong Yugoslavia; Kosovo and Metohija as an inalienable part of Serbia and the internal issue of our country; implementation of the Dayton Agreement; strengthening Republika Srpska and numerous ties between Serbia and SR Yugoslavia with the Republika Srpska; returning to the country's membership rights in international organisations and institutions and actively setting up integration processes in Europe, as well as further improving good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation. The government reaffirms its determination to strengthen the SR of Yugoslavia as a Federation of Serbia-Montenegro, based on the equality of citizens and republics of members. The Serbian government is convinced that only a single and stable Serbia provides a strong SR Yugoslavia and its full affirmation. Kosovo and Metohija are the roots and foundations of Serbia's statehood and the national self-loathing of the Serb people. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of Serbia, and because of its national, historical, cultural, economic and other specificities, it has the right to political and territorial autonomy under the Constitution of Serbia. We are convinced that open, unconditional dialogue with representatives of the Albanian national minority and other minorities living in our province can find the best solutions for the achievement of human and civil rights, as well as the rights of members of national minorities under the highest standards of the UN, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. Serbia is making a clear distinction between terrorists and terrorism on one hand and members of the Albanian national minority on the other. Terrorism towards citizens, members of the Serb and Montenegrin people, Albanians and police in Kosovo and Metohija is classical violence. All attempts at separatism, secessionism and terrorism will be curbed by the government by all legitimate measures, as all countries in the world do, which face this evil. National minorities should use all rights according to the highest international standards, but nowhere in the world, neither can they be the basis for ending state territory. With common policy, the government will also provide future conditions for stable political, economic and cultural development, building a relationship of tolerance and trust between all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. The implementation of these objectives will be divided by all state authorities, and in particular by the Directorate for the Development of Undeveloped Areas, whose headquarters is in Pristina and which the Government provides means for effective action. The government's readiness is also confirmed by the signing of the Agreement on the Normalisation of the Education System in Kosovo and Metohija. The consistent implementation of the Dayton Peace Process remains our permanent commitment. Peace, harmonious development and prosperity can only be ensured if full equality of the Republic of Serbia and the Muslim-Croatian Federation and three constituent peoples - Serbs, Croats and Muslims is consistently respected. We are interested in fully respecting these principles, because this is a condition for the preservation of peace, stability and achievement of the vital interests of the Serbian people. We advocate that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia continues to strengthen ties with the Republic of Serbia in all areas of co-operation - business, trade, traffic, education, culture and sport, based on the Agreement on special parallel relations and the Double Citizenship Agreement. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has affirmed its constructive and peaceful policy as a factor of peace, stability and good neighbouring countries in the region and Europe. With Yugoslavia in the framework of European organisations, institutions, the objectives of European security and co-operation in Southeast Europe will be achieved more fully and more quickly. The Republic of Serbia has a first-class interest in including the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in regional and European integration processes. Our interest is to speed up the normalisation of relations between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Union. It is an interest for Serbia to return autonomous trade measures, which were approved last year and suspended, to remove unfounded political conditions urgently. It is indisputable that we are an integral part of Europe. By opening the borders for free flow of people and goods, capital, good neighbourly relations, by forming a free trade zone, we confirm this in particular, and this is the right way to fully activate our country's human, economic, geostrategic potential. In the Republic of Serbia, major social and economic reforms are under way and any attempts to keep distance, a double-standard policy, are not in the interest of either the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or Europe. Honorable MPs, the Serbian government that is currently running out of mandate, will be remembered for several strategic results. First of all, the negative production trends turned into a positive, chaotic state of affairs and the lives of citizens into economic and social stability and the growth of standards. The economic mechanism, blocked by sanctions and other difficulties, has set off on the principles of modern, market economy and the social state. At the continuity of positive results in the area of economic growth, economic and social stability and the reforms that have been launched, for the past four years, we define new and more ambitious economic and social development goals. The social product will grow by the end of this decade according to projections based on a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia of about 7% per year and this is above average compared to developed countries and countries in transition. This growth will be based on increasing growth in industry and agriculture, traffic, construction and services sectors, with dynamic growth from all other activities. Our goal is to catch up with medium-developed countries at the end of the observed period in terms of social product. At the current level of development, the objectives of economic and social development can be successfully achieved through qualitative factors of governance, by applying rationality and efficiency criteria, in short on reform principles. The government of the People's Unity will continue its policy of continuity in the coming period, whose main standoffs are stability, economic growth and the acceleration of reform processes, and above all in the areas of property transformation, restructured economy and banks, faster opening up to the world, the social functions of the state. The Law on its own transformation and the Law on concessions at the Republic level is largely surrounded by a market-oriented economic system. These laws create a basis for increasing the efficiency of the economy, faster arrival of foreign capital, greater efficiency and competitiveness of our businesses and strengthening financial discipline. Mechanisms are defined necessary for the realisation of property transformation, which will be open to the public and fully controlled by the National Assembly. We expect four to five million citizens of Serbia, workers, farmers, pensioners, teachers and each family to become shareholders, stressing the comprehensiveness and fairness of this process. Its own restructuring of public enterprises will take place in line with strategic development and modernisation of large infrastructure systems, integration opportunities into wider integration flows in Europe and their profitability. Money from the property transformation of these companies will be channelled through the Republic Fund for Development Development and for the realisation of the social programme. It is the right social policy that enables new jobs, that each work makes a means for its needs and lives. The transformation of large enterprises of strategic interest will depend on the possibility of their economic-financial consolidation. When it comes to companies to be transformed under a special government programme, its role will be to approve the property transformation programme of these companies and to provide support for the negotiation. Those companies that are not currently interested in investors, as they require economic-financial consolidation, will help to initiate the restructuring process completely through the Fund for Development or the takeover of part of the debt. Change in the economic structure towards greater participation in the services sector and greater importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the recovery of banks and financial systems in general, are the basis for creating a critical mass of markets, adapted flexible and efficient enterprises. These companies have come out of the sanctions period with a lower burden of difficulty and better adapted to the difficult conditions of rejuvenation. Thanks to a market-oriented economic system, its transformation and development incentives, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises will be even faster. The Serbian government, together with the federal government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia, will fully engage in the restructuring and rehabilitation of the banking system, and the current network of the banking system has been pre-named and the specific problem is the specific banks that are burdened with debt and non-performing claims, and do not have their own strength to adapt to the difficult conditions on the financial market. The Serbian government supports the People's Bank of Yugoslavia's implementation of solid financial discipline, which implies the launch of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks in the event of non-compliance with the rules. The resolution of banks requires and strengthens controls and functions, including increasing restrictions on the opening of banks, expanding plasma modes, security of deposit and placement insurance, training of banks' resolution agencies. Greater opening policy towards the international environment implies a strong export orientation and liberalisation of the external trade regime by further reducing quantitative constraints and harmonising with the standards of the world trade organisation. This will act stabilisingly on the prices and supply of the domestic market, structural adjustment of domestic economy and increasing its efficiency and competition. The achievement of social rights is among the priorities of the Government of National Unity. The condition that these objectives are achieved is even faster economic growth and reforms in the areas of the pension and health system and other public spending systems. The new model of the pension system will be based on mandatory and voluntary insurance. The current deficit and debt will be resolved, among other things, through the recapitalisation of funds and the privatisation process of social and state-owned enterprises. The reform of the pension and disability insurance system will contribute to reducing the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance, since by dynamicising the production and growth of employees and average earnings it will then provide a wider basis for contributions. Health reform will not be an administrative measure of capacity reduction and personnel, the emphasis is on measures to use existing funds in a way that gives maximum effects and health protection will improve the level of health of citizens and will safeguard the level of social justice in the area. The health insurance system guarantees everyone the right to health care. The reform will create better opportunities for the exercise of the right to free healthcare in terms of the health needs of citizens, with the security and equality of citizens in achieving protection, independent of their material opportunities and status positions. Dear People's MPs, allow me to keep your attention at the basic points of economic policy and reform policy. Economic and development policy comes from the stabilization experience of the past four successful years, objective conditions of engagement and the objectives we pursue. In the past four years, it has been clearly shown that price and currency stability is the basis for dynamic development. This will continue to be an outstanding task for us. Healthy money policy, spending only on public spending, further market liberalisation, price stability - will guarantee stability for businesses, and employees, pension recipients and other personal incomes that money will have the same value tomorrow. By expanding the tax base, by affecting the grey economy and by strictly charging, we will be obliged to increase public revenues. Lower rates of taxation will allow for more rates of economic growth and result in better and more efficient financing of public services. In collaboration with other relevant institutions, we are about to round up the fiscal system by introducing taxes on additional value and applying synthetic taxation of citizens' income. We will seek to make additional revenues for better financing through concessions and their own transformation of the public sector, in the first part of the social programme. The National Bank of Yugoslavia will have our unreserved support in restrictive monetary policy, with the aim of preserving the stability of dinars and prices. At the same time, we demand that financial discipline be tightened, as we consider it extremely important to preserve the overall stability achieved. Interest rates will continue to be market-based, with our commitment to eliminate undue and excessive banking costs. The return of confidence in the banking system will begin by solving the problem of the deposited and unrealised foreign exchange savings of citizens, as well as faster arrival of foreign affirmed banks. We have restored industrial production, and continued growth will be based on more full use of existing capacities, market verification of programmes, greater use of modern science achievements and incentivisation of eco-checked programmes. Production growth intended for export will support the funds of the Fund for Development, fiscal discharge, especially investment, as well as the problem of surplus workers through the implementation of the Social Programme. In the area of mining, the increase in production will be ensured by better capacity utilisation, more efficient production, lower operating costs. In the field of energy, driveability will increase through increased volume and quality of refurbishment, continue to realise the start of investments and ensure more rational energy management. Agrar, the development of the village and the rich peasant was still the priority of our economic policy and one of the pillars of our economic and economic stability. We will pay our utmost attention to investments, prices and taxes. Investments need to raise the level and quality of production on the same property, with the same workforce. The prices of repromaterials, used in agricultural production, must grow slower than the prices of the final products of peasants. Tax policy must stimulate peasants to mass production, with the goal of making their landhold economically stronger and creating a real basis and perspective for young people to stay, live and work in the country. The quality of our agricultural products has world reputations. We need to go out to the world market with final products, not raw materials. We'll do anything to make the village an attractive place to live. We'll build still roads, schools, post office, waterways, all to equal the quality of life in the country with the one in the city. Agriculture is the area that has made the biggest contribution in the past period to maintaining stability. The reprogramming and write-off of debts to primary agricultural production, incentives for faster rural development and agrarians, has made a strong contribution to the economic consolidation of this area. The basis of agrarian policy and next year will be a adopted strategy for the long-term development of agriculture, villages, food industries, forestry and water industry. The objectives of this development are to change the production structure towards increasing the participation of livestock, fruit growing, industrial and medicinal plants, healthy food in production. The financing of development and current agricultural production will take place from real sources, primarily from the Agricultural Budget set up by the previous government. This will be reflected through the rural development process, reconstruction of agricultural machinery, export production, protection and predominance systems, funding through commodity reserves, use of securities of value and other forms of incentive. In the construction industry, we will continue to tend to recover by engaging in domestic construction operations, construction material manufacturers and equipment to build up the execution of the start-up capital facilities of infrastructure. In order to accelerate the construction of these facilities, concessions and ownership forms of foreign capital will be stimulated. For the sake of a better performance on the foreign market, a joint performance of builders and manufacturers of accompanying equipment will be ensured. Realisation of the transport and communications modernisation programme has strategic importance for Serbia and Yugoslavia, as it promotes overall economic growth and development, increases the degree of traffic connection with Europe and significantly contributes to the overall reform processes. It is about projects to modernise railway infrastructure, where they are most important - the continuation of works on the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway node, the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway line, the modernisation of the Bar Line and the main highway of Belgrade-Novi Sad-Subotica. Then, continuing to build a trans-Yugoslav road network, further modernising air traffic and telecommunications. This will valorise Serbia's geostrategic advantages due to the importance of international traffic corridors connecting the European north and south, east and west. Knowledge is the highest stake in the third millennium. The government will continue to run a policy of equal opportunities in education, allow for the use of information and modern technology, build a rationally organised humanised and needs of economy and society, a natural education system. By providing material assumptions, the government will create conditions for school affirmation and calls for teachers as important institutions of education and education of young generations. We're not spending on science and we're not going to treat it like spending. Investments in science have a multiplier effect, because they pervade all areas of production and overall social activity. Thanks to science, we'll activate our developmental advantages faster. The government will encourage particularly young experts who are willing to apply knowledge and experience in their country. As so far, the government will do everything to establish the values of our cultural diversity in line with the material opportunities. This will be done not only by protecting our cultural goods, but also by encouraging projects in this area, which will affirm Serbia and our creators both in Europe and the world. In his work, the government will, as so far, co-operate with the Union of Serbian Unions, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia and other associations and associations, especially when it comes to the most important legislative initiatives and resolving problems in areas of interest. Such practice has proved successful. Dear People's MPs, the government will continue to pay special attention to the improvement of a solution that will ensure the strict division of power and the strengthening of democratic processes. In this respect, we attach special importance to further improving solutions in the electoral legislation, which guarantee the general, equal and direct right of vote, the secrecy of elections and the full equality of all entities in the electoral process. By improving solutions relating to political organisation, party financing, public gatherings, media, etc. It will continue to normly comply with the solutions of democratic states, which proved best for the openness of political processes, participation and influence of citizens in them. I expect other entities, political parties, media, and other organisations and associations to strengthen the awareness and practice of political culture, dialogue and tolerance. The Constitution and the applicable laws will be consistently respected. We will remove and perfect shortcomings in the positive regulations to the need for economic and democratic development. The government will ensure that the work of state authorities is subject to critical public insight and will ensure its own efficiency, as well as other state authorities. To that end, the government is facing improvement and rationalisation of the state administration and a more complete delimitation of state and local self-government by adopting a new law on local self-government. The fight against crime remains one of the government's most important tasks. The government is capable of carrying the burden against this social evil. In this fight, there will be no one who will be spared or protected, no matter what social status they have or what function they perform. The government's fight against crime will continue on the following lines -- the creation of a bill, which would rightly determine the place and role of all entities to fight crime against the highest standards and world experience, the personnel strengthening of the judicial authorities and further training of bodies in charge of public order, peace and security. Maintaining full freedom of the press remains a social goal and task for the Serbian government. The freedom of the press cannot be limited to anything but rights relating to human dignity, honor and privacy, as well as those guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, whose violation means religious, racial, sex, national or political discrimination. In no area of life, a close bond and mutual conditionality of rights and responsibilities, freedom and responsibilities may be seen so clearly. This must be made more clear by the laws, but also by life and practice. In the area of radio-television relations should be arranged so that state-owned radio television meets the basic needs of citizens when it comes to culture and information. But also private-owned programmes, with their quality and diversity of programme offers, must respond to citizens' needs in the field of information, culture and entertainment. The quality and diversity of the programme offer, together with the financial resources and the personal composition behind such offers, must also be crucial when giving frequencies to use through public competitions. Regardless of who owns, states or privates, all media must be in the public function of the truth, otherwise, it must also affect the reduction of social and political tensions by spreading the political consensus, which we need to strengthen the patriotic awareness of our citizens. Dear People's MPs, Serbia is an ethnic, religious, cultural, economic and party complex society. These specificities were very often overemphasized to a degree that prevented us from developing rapidly. The goal -- rich, developed, modern, democratic Serbia's interest is what everyone needs to be. It needs to unite all social energy, creative, scientific, political and national potentials. I mean not only within Serbia's borders, but also including our numerous diaspora and a whole range of experienced people in various areas around the world, who want to invest their energy, intelligence, knowledge and influence for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. This marked need for unification will be recognised by individuals, organisations and institutions, whose programmes are in principle based on progressive, democratic and patriotic definitions and whose peace in Serbia and its accelerated development, integration into modern economic and political processes and the well-being of all citizens, the highest interest. We are at the door of the new century, in a time of great economic, social, technological change and numerous challenges. The pressures of globalisation and integration are also strong in today's world. Serbia must fully become an integral part of these processes. She has all the conditions for it, but the changes that lead a better life don't come from herself, nor do they come from anyone else. We know that very well. That is why I call on all of you and all citizens who want to unite their country well with a view to stability and strengthening Serbia and Yugoslavia, economic prosperity and a better life for all citizens. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, in forming a new government, I came from the fact that Serbia is the best concept -- the Government of National Unity. That's my party's position and my position as prime minister was four years ago, that's still today. He confirmed himself as a concept and as a result. The definition was that all parliamentary parties enter the Government of National Unity and bear responsibility for the achievement of vital, national and state interests. Seeking to represent all parties on an equal footing in the Government of People's Unity, I have spoken openly and sincerely with the authorised representatives of all parliamentary parties. All parties had equal treatment in consultations. So I was open and honest with the Serbian Renewal Movement, believing their sincere intentions. We did not respond to any undosed SPI statements of their particular importance and special requirements, as we considered it to be their own within the party's need. SPO President Vuk Draskovic, before the talks on the composition of the government, stressed the need to reach agreement on issues related to the People's Unity Declaration, which coincided with our concept of the Government of National Unity, so there were no major problems. Putting in the first plan a programme approach, the SPO has even publicly pointed out that the number of ministers from individual parties is not the most important for forming the government. As mandater, I proposed to the SPO nine of the 23 ministerial portfolios. Among them are several key -- two out of seven ministers without portfolios and two out of five presidential seats, which is 36% in the government, although the SPO has only 18% of MPs in the National Assembly. The consultations reached an agreement on a declaration of national unity. Unfortunately, after all, when the principles have been brought together, suddenly at the last consultations, we are given demands in which the SPS requires a privileged position, that it has more seats in the government than the SPS, with an explicit view that, unless we accept it, I quote: "Consume that our talks on the new republican government are finally over". I was personally surprised by that attitude, because I was under the impression that there was a real desire for all the factors to form the Government of People's Unity. Likewise, at that very moment, when our country faced international and internal pressures and when the government started a dialogue with representatives of the Albanian national minority and other minorities in Kosovo and Metohija, it surprised the SPO's procedure not to participate in the composition of a state delegation in Kosovo and Metohija. We're sorry the SPO didn't enter the government. We are sorry that the representatives of the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians did not enter the government because they supported the concept and programme of the Government of National Unity. This by the government will not change the positive position the government has towards the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians. In general, the government will act so that the interests of the country and citizens are always ahead of party interests. Dear MPs, after all the consultations carried out, I propose to the government competent by composition, able to respond to priorities, priority folk and state affairs, which will have a stable support in parliament and trust in the people, because almost 4/5 MPs are behind the government in the National Assembly. This will ensure the stability of Serbia, which we very much need today. Stability is an essential condition for further economic recovery and accelerated development, the achievement of the social functions of the state, an effective rule of law and the further development of democracy. Dear People's MPs, National Assembly President, in the Government of the National Unity, I propose: For Vice Presidents - (I read in alphabetical order) Milovan Bojic, born 1955, Doctor of Medical Sciences, Professor of the University of Belgrade, Director of the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases of Dedinje and MPs; Ratko Markovic, born in 1954, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Professor of the University of Belgrade and former Deputy Prime Minister; Tomislav Nikolic, born in 1952, National and Federal MP; Dragomir Tomic, born in 1937, President of the Holding-Company of the "Simpo", former Prime Minister - Coordinator in the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Vojslav Seselj, born in 1954, a graduate lawyer, doctor of the Federal Assembly of the Assembly. I propose to the resolution ministers: for Interior Minister Vlajko Stoiljkovic, born in 1937, a graduate lawyer, former Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, I propose to Minister of Finance Borisla Milačić, born 1953, a graduate economist, former finance minister. As justice minister, I propose Dragoljub Jankovic, born 1945, a graduate lawyer, president of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. As Minister of Local Self-Government, I propose Gordana Pop-Lazic, born in 1956, a graduate lawyer, secretary of the Zemun Municipality Assembly. For the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Jovan Babovic, born 1946, doctor of agri-economic sciences, regular professor of the University of Novi Sad, former Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. For Industry Minister Luka Mitrovica, born 1951, a graduate engineer of engineering and a federal envoy. For Minister of Mining and Energy Life of Cosic, born 1942, a graduated machine engineer, former Minister of Industry, for Transport and Liaison Minister Dragan Todorovic, born 1953, a graduate engineer, MP and vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As building minister, Dejan Kovacevic, born in 1937, a graduate construction engineer, formerly a portfolio-free minister in charge of infrastructure capital projects. For Trade Minister Zoran Krasic, born in 1956, a graduate lawyer, a federal MP in the Citizens' Council. For Minister of Tourism Slobodan Cherovic, born 1955, Master of Economic Sciences, Director General of the hotel company Metropol and Federal MP. For Minister of Economic and Property Transformation Jorvanka Tabakovic, born in 1960, a graduate economist, a folk and federal MP. For Labour, Combat and Social Affairs Minister Tomislav Milenkovic, born in 1950, a graduate economist, director of the PTT Public Enterprise Transport of Serbia, a National MP. For Family Care Minister Rada Trajkovic, born 1953, doctor, master of science and assistant at the Faculty of Medicine in Pristina and a federal MP. For Science and Technology Minister Branislav Ivkovic, born in 1952, Doctor of Science, a regular professor at the University of Belgrade, former Minister of Construction. For Education Minister Jovo Todorovic, born in 1937, a graduate machine engineer, science doctor and professor of the University of Belgrade, former minister of education. For Culture Minister Nadu Popovic-Perisic, born 1946, doctor of science, former culture minister. For Health Minister Leposavu Milicevic, born in 1950, former Minister of Health. For Environment Minister Branislav Blazic, born 1957, a specialist doctor, a federal MP at the Federal Assembly Council. For Youth and Sports Minister Zoran Angelkovic, born 1958, director of the company "Genex-system", a national and federal MP. For the minister of ties with Serbs outside Serbia, Milorad Mircic, born in 1956, a graduate engineer and MP. For Minister of Faith, Milovan Radovanovic, born 1954, lawyer and MP. For the Minister of Information, Aleksandr Vukic, born in 1970, a graduate lawyer, director of the Sports and Business Centre "Pinky", a National and Federal MP. I propose to the Minister without portfolio (reading in alphabetical order): Milan Bek, born in 1961, graduated transport engineer, former Minister of Economic and Property Transformation; Cedomir Vasiljevic, born 1947, traffic engineer, national and federal MP; Maju Gojkovic, born 1963, graduate lawyer, lawyer and federal MP to the Federal Assembly Council, Djuru Lazić, born 1953, professor and former minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Paju Momchilov, born 1948, doctor, master of medical sciences, assistant at the Medical Faculty in Belgrade; Ivan Sedlak, born 1951, graduate lawyer, former minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Slobodan Tomovic, born in 1946. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u261	We heard the programme, presented by Mirko Marjanovic, a candidate for Prime Minister and a proposal for the government's composition. The program and motion for the government's composition will be presented to you during the session. I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the government. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, I'm glad we were able to begin work today despite the hour-long delay. I expected you to give us at least a little explanation for that, I'm not counting on your apology, but at least to know what the one-hour delay in the work of our National Assembly has given us. I have listened with attention to the programme of Prime Ministers for the composition of the Government, Mr Marjanovic, and I would like to point out this opportunity, as we have brought it to the public before our constituents and all those who cast their votes in the previous elections to the "Vojvodina" coalition, in the composition in which it came out, that we cannot vote for Mr Mirko Marjanovic, as Prime Minister, that we will not support his government and that we cannot vote for the programme he has presented. There's a few reasons why he's running us. Prime Minister for Prime Minister Marjanovic also informed the assembly that he spoke with representatives of all parliamentary parties at the National Assembly of Serbia, which is not the case. He did not discuss, among other things, with representatives of the Vojvodina Coalition, several of them here, which doesn't have to seem particularly significant to you, but we are handling the fact that in the past elections, the Vojvodina Coalition received about 120,000 votes and that the third political force in Vojvodina, behind the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, is the fourth political force in Serbia. We also manage the fact that in the previous term, Mr. Marjanovic did not resign as director of his company, and that his company was the monopoly winner of many export and import jobs, which is, in our opinion, the laws that were passed in this country and we believe that there has been a strengthening of the country's plutocratic rule, the commercial spilling of people's money in favour of only a few families. The government of Mr. Marjanovic in the previous four years has no economic results. Over the past four years, from 1994 to 1998, losses in Serbia's economy have been over $10 billion. The foreign trade deficit is over $2.3 billion, Serbia's foreign debt is about $11 billion. The country is not running a policy of opening up to abroad, there is no policy of obtaining a loan of financial assistance, no policy of changing the economic system, which would have managed to put the state into the market channels of modern Europe. The average net salary in Serbia today is $120 per month, which is below the net salary obtained in many African countries. There were no transit movements in Serbia and contrary to what Mr. Marjanovic presented in his referendum or in his programme, about 90% of the capital of fixed, current capital in state hands and about 87% of all employees is in the state sector. As for Vojvodina, the results of Mr Marjanovic's team's rule have been defeated. In Vojvodina today, industrial production and total production are 46.6% of those that were in 1989. In Vojvodina, production is twice as small as it was nine years ago. There's no free cereal store. The Duke's request and demanded a free grain trade. It is precisely Mr. Marjanovic's company that one of these monopoly-winners of the right to export agricultural products, and its position as Prime Minister made it possible to get jobs like this privilegedly, which, among other things, meant that oilists, or those not engaged in typical agricultural production and trade, are doing so in creative businesses. In Vojvodina, the state owes the peasants and other farmers about 1 billion dinars for sunflowers, sugar tails, fat pigs, grapes and many other agricultural products. Farmers in Vojvodina are owed pensions for the past 12 months and more. Because free exports of wheat and other products used for the maintenance of internal social peace are not permitted, no Vojvodinan today can export corn. Internal prices between 50 and 55 pairs, the outside price is a dinar and 10 pairs. Everyone who gives corn for this suffers huge losses. These are, among other things, the reasons that guide us not to vote today for the government proposed by Mr Marjanovic, a team before this government is put together and created as a team for us before ensuring that in Serbia the remaining wild passions, aggression and that the future of our country itself will be threatened. We do not see this government as a guarantee of peace, as a guarantee of calming, as a constructive government of dialogue with all political forces, but we will see this government, above all, as the last of those who may be the ones who will fight against freedom of the press, who will fight civil rights, against human rights. We see this government as a continuation of the old policy, which will likely lead Serbia to further expanding its conflict with the international community, when we need the international community to resolve many of our internal political issues. These are the reasons why we choose to vote against this government and we will do so clearly with a firm commitment.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u263	Here we go. Who's answering for the word? There is a word from MP Borisvoje Borovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u264	Dear People's MPs, I would not comment on the mandate proposals on all the special members of the government, but I will refer to a member of the government who is supposed to represent Serbia's justice minister. Since I know Dragoljub Jankovic, I don't think most MPs know who it's about, of course, I don't have anything personal, and I've been thinking about whether or not I should speak at all. But if the Government of People's Unity is proposed, then we have one member of the government who was against that people's unity. Dragoljub Jankovic was president of Belgrade's First Municipal Court and ordered all of his judges to steal elections in Belgrade. The evidence for this is Gonzales' report, a report by the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, and at the end of the intervention of Serbian President Milosevic at the time, which confirmed by his decision that the elections were irregular. Mr. Jankovic obviously needs to show by his appointment that Serbia's judiciary must not be a bit free, because he is a representative of the man who will completely prevent the judiciary from being independent in making its own decisions. So we will have a government where there are people who, at a certain point, should at a time share the power of legislative, judicial and executive in some future, represent Dragoljub Jankovic who does not even have the support of his college. I don't know where he came from. I suggest that precisely because of this very important function of the minister of justice in Serbia, which should show the true face of the new Government of the People's Unity, that you do not vote for such a government, and, above all, for this resolute ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u265	There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u266	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know if you're aware of what you're attending right now. The coalition of the SPS and the Serbian Radical Party is the end of the country, the end of the country in economic, cultural and any other sense. First of all, Mr Marjanovic noted as one of the most useful things about signing an agreement on the normalisation of education in Kosovo done by the current government. The agreement is the legitimacy of the Republic of Kosovo, as otherwise it must be explained to me who signed the agreement and what kind of agreement it is, former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic signed with Ibrahim Rugova. Is Mr. Rugova a privateer or what he is and who he has the right to sign any agreement with the president of Serbia if he is not at his level. The same thing happened during this signing, which legitimised the existence of the Republic of Kosovo, which the government did. That's the first thing. The second thing, this story of its own transformation is the story of the further theft of the property of this country and this people, of further so-called privatisation, and in fact the sale of the powerlessness of Serbia, the oil industry of Serbia and all other valuables from which the budget is to be filled, and you know it very well, because without a full budget there is no pensions or anything. By selling the mail we never got the bill: because, when, who, how, why and where the money went. In Vojvodina, 700 million marks were to go, and less than 50 left. He was promised to go to the economy, and it went to red tape. With such business, this country will go bankrupt as soon as possible. The story of some consultations with parliamentary parties is also false, because with the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, with the Reform Democratic Party, no one spoke to the Sandzak List. That's not why I'm crying, and that's not what I'm interested in. I'd say no to conversations like that. But you refused the polling committee when it was intended to determine whether Milutinovic was elected or not. You have now turned down the poll committee on the death of civilians in Drenica. By doing so, you refused to complain to anyone when someone broke into your house and killed your children. Now, that's what you did. And with this government you'll cause problems in Kosovo, cause problems in Sandzak, and don't be surprised when you wake up and see the ramp on "Gazali".
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u267	He has the word MP Zarko Jokanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy has been committed since the end of the election to form a coalition-programme government that would consist of the democratic left, the democratic right and the democratic centre. We felt that priorities in the work of the government should be, above all, a marked reform orientation, a strong European orientation, a removal of the external wall of sanctions and, of course, an urgent and urgent, comprehensive solution to the Kosovo-methological problem. With what we heard just now in terms of the personal composition of the new government, the New Democracy believes that it has not, therefore, defeated the concept represented by the New Democracy and the personal composition of the government that has been proposed and this reached an interparty agreement, in our opinion, does not provide for the realisation of the objectives that we believe are urgent to come to the agenda. That is why the New Democracy will not support this government, but the New Democracy will be a constructive opposition party and we will be determined solely by the quality of the proposal we receive, as we have always done. We will respect the old good democratic rule that the government is given a hundred days to show what it knows, to organize and, of course, as gentlemen on the Serbian political scene we will congratulate all those elected in the formation of the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u269	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Joseph Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Union of Duke Hungarians, and it seems to me to me that all Hungarian animals in Vojvodina with great expectation have requested the program of government, which we have now heard. First of all, I'm sorry that we didn't have that program in hand, so we could make quality preparations for the discussion and analysis of this program. At first glance, it seems to me that this program is a huge pile of promises, with no instruments, with no means to implement. First of all, I must say, from our suggestions and suggestions, Mr. President hardly respected anything, except that he noted that with extreme attention he appreciated the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians. There is no guarantee even within the government, in the personification of individual resistors, that there will be something better than there have been in recent years. It's absolutely true that we're at the bottom of the hill, but it seems we haven't reached the maximum end. And what you suggested goes in that direction. The Alliance of the Duke Hungarians in no way can support this programme and this composition of the Government. I could take out the reactors from the previous government structure, what we expected and what we got. In the first place, I mention healthcare and Mrs. Leposav, who came to Subotica to congratulate the 100th anniversary of the existence of a hospital and medical care in Subotica, and she did not know how to say "good afternoon", let alone the solution to the huge health problems in the Republic of Serbia. That I don't order the rest of the resors. From great expectations to this day, nothing has been accomplished. Mr. President, I've met you as a wiser, smarter man than to enter this coalition, as you suggested today. It is not good for our common country either, and for us, Hungarians in Vojvodina, it is particularly devastating, disastrous.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u271	Thank you. He has the word of the People's Messenger Jemail Suljević.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u272	I am Jemail Suljević, National MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in front of the Sandzak List coalition, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin. Dear MPs, Mr. President, the chairman, I am truly surprised both as a man, and as an MP, and as a representative of the voters, because it is indeed a sign that this government and the political forces, which have the greatest power in the country, do not intend to change the existing situation, but that this country is increasingly and increasingly pushing into total international isolation. That's really tragic. Because the situation is very difficult anyway, and this proposal and this coalition and this composition of the government seem to drive us into a situation where we can't see a near perspective in terms of improvement. I can't judge in advance what's going to happen, but if we were to judge and if we were to judge by what's so far and what's still so, specifically in Sandzak's space, the situation is really dramatic. For both us and the citizens of Bosniak nationality in the Sandzak-Yugoslavia area, it is indeed a great disappointment. There is still terror in the Sandzak area, classic police terror. As you know, we went to elections in 1996 and got local authority in New Market. The government of the Republic of Serbia has imposed a forced administration in Novi Pazar, without arguments, for no reason and thus marred the will of citizens. People's houses of Bosniak nationality are still on fire in the Pryboy municipality today. There are facts about that. The last house was set on fire in January of this year. A little while ago, you refused to form a research committee, a study of cases kidnapped, and that is also one sign that this current government has really put Bosniaks out of the law as citizens of this country. We've been out of the law for seven years. If it had happened that 17-20 of his inhabitants had disappeared from the zoo, there would probably be more activity to find and find the culprits why it happened. As far as we're concerned, we have met all the conditions that the democratic world puts before us, even a conversation with Mr Lilic, former Yugoslav President. Everything we've been asked to do has been fulfilled. The condition was to go to the elections, to participate in the institutions of the system. However, practice shows that the current authority does not want us to participate in the institutions of the system, to resolve all disputes through dialogue. For example, I was proposed as a member and president of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and an agreement was reached on this. Representatives of all political groups were not against it. In the end, a member of the SPS came out and said, "You can't be a Muslim-nationalist." Please! That's true, there's a record. So the question arises whether it makes any sense to participate in the institutions of the system, whether it makes any sense to seek a solution to Sandzak's status, to the status of the Bosniak people. Not to talk about other situations. In the last six or seven years over 50 villages in the area of the municipality of Pryboj and Pljevlja are ethnically cleaned. About 200 people are being kidnapped, killed, which is missing. More than 300 houses, owned by citizens of Bosniak nationality, have been burned in Sandzak space or otherwise, with various explosive means demoted. Not to say that there are still political processes that are not completed, that Dr. Ugljanin's federal envoy has been reactivated and his immunity has been seized. So the situation isn't pink at all. Let me tell you frankly, with this kind of policy, make sure that most citizens of this country suffer, and above all Serbs themselves, of course everyone else with them. But, all right, most of them decided that. We will continue to co-operate, to act as much as we can, to make our contribution to general democratisation, if it is possible to force it at all, and that all the issues and all the disputes that exist are resolved in a human, democratic way. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u273	Just one correction, please. The National Assembly today did not refuse to form a commission, but refused to put that item on the agenda today. There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the fact that the two largest political groups, based on the election results, have reached an agreement to form a government. Nothing unusual, perhaps even normal, if it makes it possible to form a policy within this Republic that will benefit the people. We know, this is what the people said, and we have to respect that will of the people, and probably in this respect, the results of the vote for the government will be that. However, I will remain in that part that represents the government's programme and the assessment of the reality of such a problem. I think we're in a situation where we can't be optimistic that it's the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister so far. The situation in the country is difficult and too difficult, objectively we find ourselves in a situation where we really need to find a path or find a ray of light that we need to move on to get out of the situation we're in. We all have to be responsible, and those who will be sitting in the first two benches from today, and all the rest of us who are in this House, and all the others who are outside this building. Because, let me, problems are such that no government can find solutions to such a situation on its own. Therefore, it will be possible to work normally with full respect and those who lead and those who suggest and those who oppose it, and if we can do such a thing, then we have done something. Not much, not with big plans that we're going to do all that or a lot of things, but that we're all meeting with both feet on the ground and being aware that not everything that's said here can't be objectively realized. We must travel to the world and together with the world to find, and whether it will be this government, this party, this other party, all of us together, that is already a special question and another question. It's a question of our basics right now, whether we're at least on these too difficult jobs ready to do something together or not. You see, this is where the word is spoken and the term is used - the rapid arrival of foreign capital. Did this program, from what's been said here, from what the government has been doing so far, do anything seriously, fundamentally done in that direction? I'm afraid not. It's possible that I'm wrong, it's possible that my conclusions aren't right, and I don't believe that with a program like this, I'm not going to talk about the composition of the government, because it really wouldn't be correct for a series of people who haven't been able to show themselves, to say that I doubt it, but let me seriously doubt that the results can be good. Believe me, with all my heart, I'd like to make a mistake in this conclusion. With all my heart, I'd like to get out of this situation, with this government or a little different government, or a completely different government, and we all want it, or a lot of people want it. And those who will speak here today in favor and those who will speak against this proposal or against this programme. You see, one more expression was used -- taking part of the debt in the transformation of certain enterprises by the state. And we adopted such a law the other day in the Federal Assembly, and the Federation took over a part of its debts, agricultural organisations and tourism organizations. Do they have any Federation or Republican means that they can take on such a commitment? I'm afraid they don't, I'm afraid that's the answer, the only possible answer, but the answer, which should be used for one sentence or to sort of explain something. You see, we really expected someone here in a serious way or to provide a mandater with information on how solutions are, but seriously, what solutions are foreseen only for two things. It's one question of employment in this country, and the other is about solving the problems of those people who are retired today and those who will be there tomorrow. These are two extremely large questions, and these are two questions that have undoubtedly asked us to have some explanation here, not just for us, but for those who appear on the streets every other day or every third day, with legitimate demands that this question exists for years now, that this is an existential issue and that there is no delay, no delay, and not for months, but for days. These are serious questions, these are also difficult questions and these are issues that should be discussed. Mr. Ratko Markovic has been proposed for one vice president here, and right now it would be very interesting if we had only heard a few sentences about whether we would change the constitution, would we agree to the Constitution with the Constitution of Yugoslavia, would we be making legislation that would undoubtedly comply with one law of another law? Are we going to do absolutely something on this plan, and is it possible that the Kosovo problem, as it has been resolved today, is it only in the framework of constitutional provisions that we have or is there something that needs to be done? Is the Assembly the way it is formulated in the Constitution, is it appropriate to that Assembly spoken of, not one party but many parties speak of it, so that in some ways the position of people belonging to one nation and the position of people belonging to other nations might be secured? For all of this, it would undoubtedly be necessary here in one serious and responsible way to give some explanation that in this whole situation would be an answer to a question. And just one more question. I would ask you to answer us, if that is possible, is it, at this point, that I am, unlike anything previous, subjective, I am from Pancheva, and I would ask you to answer us - is the proposal for Mr Todorovic the result of what we want to confirm is one decision going to end our schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u275	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (Nicho) Since none of the MPs answer for a word, I ask Mr Mirko Marjanovic, the candidate for Prime Minister, does he want a word? (don't want) I'm closing the search and we're proposing a decision. According to Article 187(1). The Rules of Procedure, a proposal for the President and members of the Government, shall be decided in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. He has a proposal from the MP of the People's Republic of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u276	Dear People's MPs, given that the proposed composition of the Government of National Unity reflects nearly four-fifths of the electoral body, I propose that we declare ourselves here in Parliament to the Government of National Unity by public vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u277	One moment, Mr. Cvetkovic, by electronic means or by raising your hands? Just suggest it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u278	I suggest -- electronically, as we've done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u279	Thank you. Any other suggestions? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to put on the vote by MP Live Cvetkovic to decide on a proposal for president and members of the government by public vote, using an electronic voting system. I conclude the vote: 186 MPs voted against 23, abstained 5, did not vote 9, 223 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly decided by majority that a proposal for president and members of the government should be made public, using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal for president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia -- using an electronic voting system -- the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you, according to Article 92, paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government was elected if the majority of the total number of MPs voted in favour of its election. Before joining the vote, I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal for the president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. I conclude the vote: For 169, against 49, no one abstained, no two voted, a total of 220 MPs are present in the hall. Since 169 MPs voted in favour of the proposal for president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the proposed composition. Let me congratulate the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf and on my behalf. [[Applause]] Also, let me thank the current members of the government and the government in the previous composition for their successful work and wish them a lot of success in working on new duties. I call on all government members to enter the O.R. (Government members entering the O.R.). Dear Members of Parliament, I ask the members of the Government to, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approaches to take an oath. I ask the People's Messengers to stand up. Please, we approach the oath. (The President of the National Assembly reads, and the members of the government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work and to perform my duties as a member of the Government with responsibility and security." I'm asking the members of the government to sign a statement. Please surrender your signed oaths. [[Applause]] Did all the members of the government sign? (yes) I once again congratulate the newly elected members of the government, the Prime Minister and the vice presidents on the election. I'm taking a break until 1400 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECLARATION ON PEOPLE'S UNITY, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the Government to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u281	Dear President, honourable MPs, starting with the need to unite all human, material and spiritual forces for Serbia's well-being and its citizens, defined for development on the principles of freedom, democracy, justice, equality and solidarity, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Declaration on National Unity at its first session on 24 March 1998 and proposed that it be adopted by the National Assembly. Text of Declaration: 1. The responsibility for achieving vital national and national interests, the present and the future of Serbia imposes a commitment of national unity on the fundamental needs of the state and people. All, regardless of party or any other belongings, Serbia and the well-being of peoples and citizens should be a common concern and a supreme interest. As historical occasions have determined that in the past the Serbian people are divided, this time requires harmony and unity. Serbia needs harmony and unity. Therefore, conscious responsibility requires time and expectations of people and citizens for Serbia's development and progress in peace, and we leave all the divisions in the past to history. Universal principles of freedom, justice and democracy are the cornerstones of a stable and strong state and are the strongest in the face of debauchery. The markings and holidays of our country will be symbols and dates rooted in our national and folk tradition, which unite us in patriotism and loyalty to the state and the people. 2. The history of our people is woven from the struggle for freedom and independence. We're rightly proud of it. That's why we will always defend freedom and ensure our country's independence. The Serbian people have never based their rights and will never deny the rights of others, but they will never admit that anyone is jeopardizing the rights of the Serbian people, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia. 3. We resolutely reject any attempt at ideological, religious, and national exclusion and selfishness. By respecting the human rights and freedoms and rights of national minorities living in Serbia, according to the highest international standards, we will at the same time protect the civil and national rights and the good of our people. 4. We commit to further developing and strengthening the democratic order through the competition in knowledge, pregoverning, party programmes for Serbia's general good and its citizens. Political differences must not be an obstacle to accelerated development and reforms, but rather an incentive to seek the best solutions and to regulate the state on the principles of market economy, parliamentary democracy, full affirmation and the achievement of human and civil rights and freedoms. 5. Serbia-Montenegro are two names for the same root, historical drive and destiny. There was never and there will never be a younger and older man. That is why Serbia-Montenegro, along with Republika Srpska, not only the pillars of national unity, but the expression of the people's desire to gather anything that is historic, political, economic, spiritual, ethnic, cultural and in every other respect cannot be separated, and especially not opposed. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a state-of-the-art expression and the most complete confirmation of national unity. Six. We want and want the Republic of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia to be the strongest support for peace and co-operation with our neighbours and an equal and respected member of the European and world community of nations and states. Today, more than ever, our destiny is in our hands and this declaration confirms that we are capable of carrying it with success. It's about decisions relating to the future. Our vision of Serbia is a modern, democratic, economically and culturally developed state respected by all. Democratic and strong Serbia, as a guarantee of the democratic, stable and strong Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is our permanent commitment. This time, state and national goals, require that all political parties and all other entities make decisions that will unite, mobilise and target the people's force for Serbia's progress and for the good of all in Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u282	Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Ivan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u283	Dear President, honourable MPs, since its establishment, the Serbian Renewal Movement has been in favour of national reconciliation. In the first assembly in 1990, we adopted the Declaration of National Reconciliation and during these seven years we have advocated that something like this be adopted at the state level. In the consultations that lasted with President Milutinovic, we proposed one text of the declaration, whose author is Vuk Draskovic and which is partly here before you. However, there has been a mutilation of the text, two key things have been thrown out of the text, despite the text being agreed on on 14 March. I will read to you those views, which were left out of the proposal submitted by the Government to the MPs. The first attitude left out is: "Glory and thanks to all who fought against foreign conquerors in the vow never to be enemies of ourselves again. "The second position left out is: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia undertakes that no later than two months, since the adoption and declaration of this Declaration of National Unity, they will adopt laws on such state symbols and national holidays. "It is clear to us that with this mutilation, this declaration is no longer what it was, nor can it express its basic intention, its basic intensity of national unity and national reconciliation. What makes it necessary to throw out something that speaks of the past of our people, what about the tragedy that occurred during World War II, what does it say about the tragedy of civil and brotherly war? Why should this be thrown out, and why are you throwing it out just as the Serbian Radical Party enters the government, which boasts of its Chetnik dukes? Is it possible for you to object, you who wear the titles of the Chetnik Duke, the reconciliation of the Chetniks and the Partisans? Just because this declaration left behind what is its essential part, there is still what concerns the deadlines for the adoption of the holiday law, about the non-baptism of Serbia, which is still missing and which is necessary for these holidays to be the holidays that they bring together, and not the ones that separate, so that these holidays lose the ideological mark they have so far. Just because all this has been thrown out of the declaration, the SPO MPs will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u284	He has the floor of MP Gorica Gajevic, head of the SPS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u285	The honourable MPs, Your Honor, apparently a fellow SPO did not listen carefully to the presentation of Prime Minister Marjanovic, and there seems to be no true information from the president of the SPO. It was clearly said that the Declaration of National Unity was fully agreed during the consultations. I would like to inform you that by letter sent to Mr Mirko Marjanovic on 17 March 1998, the president wrote and signed, as you know, a national unity declaration, whose text we agreed on. The agreement on state symbols, as well as national holidays, was agreed, but these are special accompanying documents. Now it's on the agenda of the declaration, which is fully in line. That's what the president of the SPO confirmed and agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u286	There's a word from MP Ivan Kovacevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u287	As you show me the paper, so can I show the paper signed by Serbian President Milan Milutinovic on the full text of the declaration, which contains these two positions, which are now out. The faxymil will be published in the paper.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u288	Thank you. National MP Gorica Gajević, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u289	I wish you'd shown that document, especially regarding the date after 17 March. Mr Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the assembly, personally handed this letter to President Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u290	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say next. What does the word "Timoc" mean? Because this is how people read some text and adopt it, most of the time no one's holding on to it. I'll explain to you on the case of Timoko Krajina what the declaration means, but not about national unity, but about national reconciliation. Here's what it's supposed to mean for Zajcar and the environment. After the withdrawal of the national military units from Deli Jovan and from Mount Rtanj in 1944, when Ljuba Jovanovic and Commander Kent retired, 650 hosts from the Timoska province were shot at the Začar Queen. Some were killed because they were followers of the King's army in the country, and some were killed just because they had three or four machines, they were declared capitalists. Others were killed because they had 10-12 or a little more acres of land, they were towers. So when we talked about the Declaration of National Reconciliation, our proposal should mean the following: these 650 hosts had their families, children, parents, and they fell into the anthem of the national traitors. Today our declaration was supposed to mean that these people were not traitors, that these people belonged only to another movement, even if we could call it representatives of the legal army or the legal authority against internationalist units, who came under the command of an international terrorist organization called Cominterna, which these people at the Queen, above all morally, were completely derailed, and then liquidated, as I said, without any public court. Some even publicly condemned, where they could provide enough provoking. What else should the national reconciliation declaration contain? For the entire war since 1941, Mr. Redic, otherwise known as Gandhi or Gandic, was the ideologist of the Ravnogorski Movement. This was decided in 1942, and he was on Timočka Krajina by 1944. Today, there is an initiative in Nis to call a street called Dragoljub Redic, Gandhi or Gandic, as the villagers called it. There is no village in Timoko region where he did not speak his ideological programme and where he did not predict what would happen to the Serbian people if it was defined as communism. Dragoljub was just killed on the hill of the Queen in 1946. What else is it supposed to mean for Timoko the province of the Declaration of National Reconciliation? It should be for all those people, on any basis, and especially on the grounds that they are enemies of the state because they belonged to the forces of General Mihailovic, to remove that they are national traitors. The declaration should also include today's agreement that the communists discover where they buried General Mihailovic. The Radical Party, Mr Vojislav Seselj, has held behind him a picture of General Mihailovic, has been in the assembly for a very long time, and it is a shame that the Serbian people do not know where General Mihailovic is buried. But this declaration doesn't provide it, it pushes it into history, let it be left to the historians, so it's said here in the declaration. So we now have games, national pride rises by singing the songs "From Topola to Ravna Gora". You're setting your own people up, and from Topola to Ravna Gora you've been worrying and worrying about the entire territory of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia for subjects of the Serbian crown, you haven't even discovered his grave. So he's hiding out today where he's buried. We asked for a declaration of national reconciliation, counting on you to accept it, to one day clear the Serbian people. You have suggested a declaration of national unity, which we need at this time. Otherwise, you'll spit and swear again here in the Assembly, just like you've done before, only when this moment is over. What else does the National Reconciliation Declaration mean? In World War II, many nations suffered, including the terrible suffering of the Serbian people. All victims are religiously calm, only the victims of the Serb people, such as these 650 hosts, are not known to be buried, were killed on the Queen. There's stadiums now, barracks. It is not for Serbs alone that as a people of their great sacrifice, who suffered after 1944, to make religious peace. These people aren't public-lighted candles yet. These people don't know the grave, and their descendants, and when they do, they have to hide from you and your freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-03-24-0.u292	Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I am concluding a single search of the proposal for a declaration. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote a proposal for a declaration of national unity. I conclude the vote and declare: 160 MPs voted against 13, no one abstained, no seven voted, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a declaration of national unity. This is an exhaustive agenda. Thank you for your cooperation, and I'll see you at the next session.
