ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u228	Dear People's MPs, please take your seats, let's get started. Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 186 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. We have a quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are enough MPs present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Djemail Suljević, Dragan Todorovic and Vojislav Mihajlovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend this session: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented with the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 December and 29 December 1997 and the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997, held on 29 December 1997. Has there been any objections to the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 and 29 December 1997? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that there are enough MPs present in the O.R. and that there is a quorum to decide. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 and 29 December 1997. I conclude the vote and declare: 148 against three, three abstentions, were not voted 27, 181 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 and 29 December 1997, without objections. Has there been any objections to the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997, held on 29 December 1997? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I find that there are enough MPs present in the O.R. and that there is a quorum to decide. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997, held on 29 December 1997. I conclude the vote and declare: For the 149, against seven, abstentioned six, did not vote 19, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997, held on 29 December 1997, without objections. I remind you that we are at a session of the National Assembly, held on 3 December 1997, in agreement with Article 30. The Law on the selection of MPs, on a proposal from the Commission to establish the consent of the People's Parliament's Parliament's assurance and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out, found that the mandate for 249 MPs was confirmed. Meanwhile, the Serbian Radical Party, which belongs to another parliamentary mandate, in Election Unit 17-Jagodina, notified the National Assembly and the Republic Election Commission that it had assigned the mandate to the candidate from its election list in the election unit. A team was presented to you with a report by the Republic Election Commission, which found that the Serbian Radical Party assigned this mandate in accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I would like to inform you that the Commission for the determination of agreement on the election for the People's MPs and the report by the Republic Election Commission on the elections implemented, which the National Assembly educated on 3 December 1997, held a session, at which it determined the agreement of the assurance on the election of an international MP of the Serbian Radical Party with a report from the Republic Election Commission. I ask the Commission's rapporteur to inform us of the Commission's position. There is a word from MP Zoran Nikolic, rapporteur to the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u229	Dear fellow Members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, educated on 3 December 1997, pursuant to Article 30(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, in order to establish the consent of the People's MP's Parliament and the report of the Republic of Election Commission, shall submit the following report to the National Assembly. The Commission found that the Republic Election Commission submitted a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Serbian Radical Party, as the applicant of the election list in Election Unit 17-Jagodina, assigned a mandate to the candidate from its election list in the election unit, Miodrag Trumpic. The Commission has submitted a assurance of the allocation of the mandate to that MP. The information contained in this credentials was compared with the relevant data in the report of the Republic Election Commission, and their identity was established. The Commission proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 30(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Miodrag Trumpic. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate him.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u230	You heard the rapporteur from the Commission. In accordance with Article 30(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, On the basis of a report from the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Parliament and the report from the Republic Election Commission, I find that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report and that the assurance of the election of MP Miodrag Trumpic, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party in Election Unit 17-Jagodina, is in agreement with the report of the Republic Election Commission, confirming the mandate of MP Miodrag Trumpic. I also congratulate him on my own and yours. Before moving to work on the agenda of this session, it is necessary for the National Assembly to make a decision on Members of the National Assembly at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, which has been made by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 195, against two, abstentioned one, did not vote five, a total of 203 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted a proposal for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Members of the People, calling for the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, which was called upon by 86 MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, according to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the first extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. We move to the 1st Point of the Agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW FOR CONTRACTING MEMBER STATES TO THE ENTIRE REPUBLIC OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY, which was tabled by MP Zoran never again, you have received an amendment to the proposal for a decision submitted by Parliament of the People, Dr Živod Đorđević. I'm opening a unique search. Does the promoter, MP Zoran Nikolic, want a word? No, I don't. ) At point 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic. That's the proposal you got. For a member of the electoral commission, Dr. Zivorad Djordjevic is proposed. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like first to point to one violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then to talk about the agenda point. In fact, I'm interested in whether or not we decided to transfer the session directly to the National Assembly? Has something changed in the meantime? As far as I know, we've made a decision to transfer the National Assembly sessions. Today's session is not being transmitted. Now I'm wondering, who ordered the session not to be transferred? Who was the one who annulled the National Assembly's decision from last session? I think the president owes us an answer to that question and that the session can't last until we figure out whether or not it's going to be transmitted, or whether something has changed in the minds of certain people. Of course, I insist we settle this first. Instead of Dragan Todorovic, who is on his way and who is not certain he can arrive tomorrow at the time of the election, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggests Miroslav Vasiljevic as a member of the electoral commission.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u232	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) When it comes to television transmission, you know that every time before the session, a proposal is submitted for direct transmission. No one suggested it. There's no problem with that. You remember very well that the working conclusion introduced the transmission. Therefore, the last session was transferred, for this one you should have just made a proposal and there would be no problem. Besides, for tomorrow, don't make a mistake, suggest before the session a direct television broadcast and he will be. Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame that, by the first thing that has been mentioned here, there is a misunderstanding between us, if there is a misunderstanding. So, I'm asking you to clear that up for once. Why should we make a decision before each session? We agreed last time, and unanimously, at the vote, that the sessions were being transferred. There's no need to make a problem of it. It's one of the basic things why the reputation of this institution, the reputation of this organ and how it depends. That's one thing. Another thing, about the proposal Mr. Nikolic made, and we have to ask for a change. Mr. Vojislav Mihajlovic is sick and we have already informed the president that we are proposing Slobodan Nenadovic, on our part.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-02-19-0.u234	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude the search and put to the vote of the amendments of MP Živorod Djordjevic. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 130, against 12, abstentions, did not vote 48, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. Since we have heard the proposals proposed by the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club and the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction MPs, we now have a complete proposal from the electoral commission and I ask the MPs to now declare themselves. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: For 181, against one, with two abstentions, did not vote 19, a total of 203 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted these proposals. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to conduct elections for federal MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. 199 MPs voted against two, one abstention, and nine MPs did not vote. A total of 211 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a motion for a decision to conduct elections for federal MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. I ask that the parliamentary groups, who wish to do so, submit their proposals for candidates for the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, which will be carried out on the day of the adopted decision. This has exhausted today's agenda. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00. Dear People's MPs, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 143 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that we have a quorum, which is determined by the application of the electronic voting system. I am informing the National Assembly that I have granted my leave to the following MPs: Djemail Suljević, Dragan Todorovic, Vojislav Mihailovic, Dr Dragan Veselinov and Nebojsa Lekovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend this session: Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Secretariat for Law. Before we move to work on the agenda of this session, I remind you that the National Assembly at yesterday's session made a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Meanwhile, I was informed by the president of the Socialist Party Groups of Serbia and the Serbian Renewal Movement that the decision did not contain the names of the following MPs: - Srdjan Vulovic, Dobrosava Radovic and Slavi Krstic, from the Socialist Party of Serbia and - Milomir Sljic, from the Serbian Parliamentary Movement Group, with proposals for these MPs to be in constant work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the decision on permanent Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not yet been published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" do you agree to make this decision today? I suggest that we put this proposal to the vote. (One MP from the post proposed to Jovo Krkobibic. I Jova Krkobibić. Do you allow this proposal to enter as well? They agree. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting forward a motion to supplement the decision on Members of the People's Work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with proposals from the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Movement for Reconstruction and that: Srdjana Vulovic, Dobrosava Radovic, Slavi Krstic and Jova Krkobic from the Socialist Party of Serbia and Milomir Sljivić from the Serbian Parliamentary Movement Group of Reconstruction. I conclude the vote and I declare: 213 MPs voted, no one opposed, two abstentions, no five voted, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – The election of Allied MEPs to a larger republic of the Federal Assembly I would like to inform you that their proposals for candidates for the election of federal MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly have been submitted by parliamentary groups: the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy and the Alliance of the Vojvodina Hungarians. You've been served with proposals from the MPs' groups. I'm opening a search on these suggestions. Do the rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
