ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1261	I ask the MPs to take their seats to begin our work. Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 201 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Milan Nikolic, Dr Karolj Kasas, Živojin Stefanovic, Djorđa Predina, Dr Leposavi Milicevic, Velimir Bati Zivojinovic and Šemsudin Kučević. I would like to inform the National Assembly that the meetings were called to be attended by the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 17 and 18 November 1998. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the minutes, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 2nd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 17 and 18 November 1998. For 177, no one, with two abstentions, voted eight, and a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 on 17 and 18 November 1998, without objections. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to a vacant parliamentary seat belonging to the Serbian Radical Party's electoral list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in the 28-Pristina Election Unit to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the National Assembly, with a proposal that the National Assembly would establish the mandate of MP Zarko Rexic, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party - Dr Vojislav Seselj in Election Unit 28-Pristina. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the term of office of MP Zarko Radzic. Congratulations to MP Zarko Redzic on the election. You have been informed of the "Vojvodina" Coalition of the reasons for the termination of the mandate of the MPs Branislav Pomoriška, Nenad Canka and Ratimir Svirčević. According to Article 102(1), point 1 and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office ended before the end of the time to which the MPs were elected: Branislav Pomoriško, elected from the electoral list of the "Vojvodina" Coalition - Canak - Veselinov, in the Election Unit 6 - Zrenjanin and Nenad Canka and Ratimir Svirčević, selected from the electoral list of the "Vojvodina" Coalition - Dr Dragan Veseninov - Mr Miodrag Mile Isakov, in the Electoral Unit 9 - Novi Sad. In accordance with Article 106 of the Treaty on the The bill on the election of MPs will be completed to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. There are citizens here. ( Nenad Canak, from the city: Thank you, gentlemen. ) (Ratimir Svirčević, from the place: I thank you. I don't belong here, and you don't belong in Serbia. .. 1........................................................................................................................................ The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia. For 183, no one, abstentioned, voted 18, a total of 201 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft decision on the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija's 1999 budget, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, a draft decision on the Kosovo and Metohija budget for 1999. For 192, no one, abstentioned, voted 14, a total of 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 1998, be considered as an emergency procedure. I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the use of the appropriations of the Agricultural Budget. For 201, no one, with abstentions, voted 8, a total of 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the draft law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the social programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, which was submitted to the National Assembly in 3.12.1998, be considered as an emergency procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the provision of funds to implement the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. For 192, two, three abstentions, no votes, eight, a total of 212 MPs in the hall are present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. 5. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999, which was submitted to the National Assembly in 3.12.1998, be considered as an emergency procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999. For 204, no one, no one abstained, no one voted 8, a total of 212 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Six. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on special rights and obligations of elected persons, which was submitted to the National Assembly in 4.12.1998. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on special rights and the obligations of elected persons. For 197, against six abstentions, there were no votes of six, a total of 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Seven. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's action fund, which was submitted to the National Assembly in 3.12.1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the bill on the Republic of Serbia's action fund. For 194, no one, with an abstention of 7, voted 11, a total of 212 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. 8. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly in 3.12.1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. For 204, no one, abstentioned, voted 7, a total of 212 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. National MP Tihomir Arsic suggested that this session's agenda be extended by reviewing the proposal for a law on public information, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic on 14 May 1998. Does the promoter want a word? There's a word from MP Tihomir Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1262	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable President, New Democracy renewed its request on 14 May this year for the adoption of an earlier proposal to innovate regulations in the field of information and a proposal for a law on Serbian Radio Television. In Article 134. The Rules of Procedure states that the material has to be placed on the agenda within no shorter than 15 days and no longer than 60 days. Since we launched this initiative and handed over the material on May 14th, I find that 82 days have passed since then. In that section of the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility that the President of the National Assembly should extend the proposal for another 30 days on the agenda, provided that the applicant is informed of the reasons why the proposal is not included in the agenda. Since nothing has been reported to us so far, we have been forced to request the extension of the agenda and the inclusion in the agenda of our proposal for a law on information and a proposal for a law on radio television. As far as our proposal is concerned, we feel it is necessary at this time to put our proposal on the agenda of today's session of the Assembly for a number of reasons. It has already been said enough in public these days about the current Information Act and in many instances it has been found that this specialty is something that exists with two of its works, of which is the first part, it does not need to be denied, with really good intentions to achieve certain rights and freedoms and to strengthen responsibility for a publicly spoken word. However, we are able to realize all together that this good intention has been manipulated, and that is to the extent that some false things have been prevented, but in any case this law, which is currently in force, has prevented the possibility that a truth that is not of taste and measure of the ruling coalition, that is, those who have passed this law. Globally looking at this law, which is currently in force, there is also a problem with constitutional foundations. I'll remind you, in Article 46(6). The Constitution of the SR of Yugoslavia stands - that no one can prevent the breaking up of the press and other notices, unless the decision of the competent court finds that they are called for violent destruction by the constitution of the established arrangement, etc. You know that here the authorities are given to the criminal authority, which is the authority of the executive authority, or the body of the government, not the judiciary, which should at least theoretically be independent. I wouldn't talk about the characteristics of that law anymore, because a lot of it has been said. I will say just a few words about the characteristics of our proposal for a law on information and on Serbian Radio-Television. It is interesting that by the time this law was passed, it was a big cry for the Law on Radio-Television of Serbia, primarily because the recent Information Act meant before this applicable law, and it had no significant shortcomings and that the practical public word was, in a certain way, and largely free, at least when compared to this law that was currently in force. I won't even talk about it. I would say, first of all, a few words about the law on Serbian Radio-Television and two three items on the public information law, which we are proposing. The law has been innovated so much that changes are not actually bulky, because the previous law did not represent a significant obstacle to saying the free word. We introduced the new bill to the fact, which is important for the representatives of the seventh power and how important that there are different professional associations of journalists and practically legalized that fact, i.e. in this bill we found a place for different professional associations of journalists. More significant than that are changes related to the programme orientation of public votes. There is a clear difference between those financed from the budget and those financed on their own. In our bill, we have clearly underlined other functions, in addition to the informative function that we consider and how important, which is the educational, cultural and function of public journals. After all, you've all had the opportunity to get this bill and I sincerely hope that, like all our suggestions, you've read it carefully and carefully, so I hope I don't have to explain it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1263	Thank you. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Tihomir Arsic to extend the agenda of this session by reviewing the proposal for a law on public information, submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. For 51, against 170, no one was abstentioned, four MPs did not vote, a total of 225 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tihomir Arsic suggested that this session's agenda be expanded by reviewing the Radio-Television Law, submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. Does the promoter want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Tihomir Arsic to extend the agenda of this session by reviewing the Radio Television Bill, submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. For 47, against 168, no one was abstentioned, no three voted, a total of 218 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Serbian Renewal Movement Group has proposed that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item - MPial issues and that this point be considered as the seventh item of the agenda. Does the proposing representative, MP Milan Mikovic, want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I would like to propose a compromise solution. Since we never manage to maintain the quorum when the parliamentary issues are and therefore we could not leave the TV cameras on last time, today we have discussed this with the president of the Serbian Renewal Movement, because of this proposal, that the powers of the Assembly of Me, despite the fact that there will be no quorum, to maintain parliamentary issues as the last item of the agenda. Can this compromise be accepted? You got it. Then there's no need to vote on this. Mr. Mikovic, is he all right? Yeah. ) Proposals for a merger of debates. National MP Life Cvetkovic proposed that the National Assembly conduct a joint principle search on: - Bill on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia; - Proposal for a law on the use of the Agrarian budget; - Proposal for a law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the social programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999; and - Proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999. Does the MP of Life Cvetkovic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Lives of Cvetkovic to conduct a joint principled search on the draft laws for which he proposed it. For 205, no one against, two abstentions, voted 13, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts, committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. For 218, no one, no one was abstentioned, no one voted 7, a total of 225 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The choice of judicial office holders, 2. Proposal for a Law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a decision on the budget of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija for 1999, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on the use of the Agricultural Budget, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Special Rights and Obligations of Selected Persons, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a Law on the Republic of Serbia Action Fund, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violences, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 12. MPs' questions. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT FUNCTIONS Within this point you have received: - The motion for a decision on the termination of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and - the motion of the Republic Public Prosecutor to elect the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor, District Prosecutors, Deputy Public Prosecutors, District Prosecutors, Municipal Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors. In addition, you have received an amendment and an addition of the Republic Public Prosecutor to the selection of deputy municipal public prosecutors and a report by the Justice and Administration Committee, which has not objected to the proposals of the Republic Public Prosecutor for the selection of public prosecutor. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the motion for a decision to suspend the Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? (don't want) Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving on to a decision. I remind you, according to Article 174, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the choice, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each Constitutional Court judge individually, by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. Is there any suggestion that the vote should be public? He has the word National MP Miloja Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1264	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of efficiency, I suggest that the vote be conducted in a public, electronic way.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1265	Thank you. Since MP Miloja Mihajlovic has proposed that the vote be public, using the electronic voting system, we need to make a statement on the proposal. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the proposal of MP Milo Mihajlovic. For 202 against six, the abstentions were not voted five, and a total of 213 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia's judicial office. For 203, against one, abstentioned 10, five voted, and a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single investigation into the election's proposals: the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor; district attorneys; deputy district attorneys; municipal public prosecutors and deputy municipal public prosecutors, with an amendment and addition of the republican public prosecutor since 4 December 1998. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic. I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not come out to challenge any choice, but I have come out to draw attention to the public prosecutor's office in general that right now and after this session will become all conditions for normal work, there will be all conditions that we cannot call for ineffectiveness of the public prosecutor's office. You have on the agenda today a choice of about 115 to 120 new prosecutors and their deputies, on the one hand, and you will in the course of this day or this two days have a new situation in the criminal justice area, where undoubtedly the municipal public prosecutors will become far more burdensome than they have been, because by amending the provisions of Criminal Law, a number of cases, which would go to the district courts so far, will go to municipal courts. Finally, if today or tomorrow we adopt the Law on Special Rights and Obligations of Selected Persons and the material position of public prosecutors will be amended and significantly improved. In such a situation, there are all the conditions that are most normal, most efficient, and perhaps the problem is that there will be a lot of young people, but also these people, most of these people are educated in prosecutors, district and municipal. So in one such situation, I think this is a moment where both in the field of trial and indiction, normal conditions are created as much as possible in this situation where the country is and we think that this is an opportunity for a big step to become a legal state, as we want it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1267	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1268	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, today we have material about the public prosecutor's office in front of us, and in the prepared material, I see that a face from Ruma has been proposed as deputy municipal public prosecutor in Novi Pazar. I don't know the lady or the lady personally, and my discussion isn't at all personal, it's principled. So far, the appointment of judicial officers has shown mistrust for years, not to say hate for Bosniaks, and on the other hand, the state is asking that Bosniaks be loyal citizens. The current proposal, unfortunately, shows that the government's trust with local Serbs is running out, and has already begun for Novi Pazar and with imports of personnel. In Novi Pazar, gentlemen, the next population ratio: 80% are Bosniaks, 19% are Serbs, and one percent are left. For example, however, the holders of judicial functions are: the president of the municipal court is a Serb, the head of the district court is a Serb, the authority's supervisor is also a Serb, the municipal public prosecutor is a Serb and the district attorney is Bosniak, however, under the control of the SPS. Furthermore, gentlemen, a very important anomaly for which those who operate the judiciary do not want to pay attention is that 80% of judges, regardless of their nationality, are completely loyal to the SPS or are under the control of the SPS. In some cases, spouses or close relatives are linked by the court-police-SPS, so this situation is not only worth it in Novi Pazar, but in other Sandzak municipalities at all. In a situation like this, believe me, there is no speech at all about an independent judiciary, there is no rule of law, but there is a possibility of repression and reckoning with people who think differently. I'll remind you of just one example. Since 1993, New Pazar has been conducting an mounted political process against 24 Bosniaks who, after five years, has not been completed...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1269	Excuse me, please turn off your cell phones.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1270	Although the same process was conducted by the same members of the law and by the same indictment against 21 Bosniaks in the White Field, that is, in the area of the Republic of Montenegro, and these people have been cleared of the charges both in matrimonial and monetary compensation. In Novi Pazar, therefore, the court is not able to free these people, but these people feel like hostages of politics because they cannot be hired, to get a travel document, they can't get any rights, social, health, pensions to do so. It's a drastic violation of basic fundamental human rights. We here have an example of Mr. Kučević's MP who is even the president of the municipality's Assembly in Tutin and has no travel documents, although the court says there is no reason why he has no travel documents. It's just that the police don't give him travel papers. So, all these citizens who think differently, and globally all Bosniaks in Sandzak feel like hostages, because, I say, there is a lack of rule of law. In this way and with this proposal, I can see that it has started with the import of personnel because the government has no confidence in the Bosniaks in Sandzak, obviously there is no more trust in the Serbs in Sandzak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1271	Please, just a moment. Do you challenge the candidate and you must tell me your name?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1272	I'm against this principle, this kind of appointment, I don't challenge the candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1273	There is a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic, as chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1274	Ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor's election goes differently than the judge's. This is the board's opinion. So he gives an opinion and gives the Assembly a positive opinion, unanimously, to accept the motion of the Republic Public Prosecutor and selects all the public prosecutorial office holders. As far as the concrete proposal is concerned, that is, the fundamental constitutional principle of this country is freedom of movement and housing. We didn't even care who the nationalities were. If a gentleman from Ruma or from anywhere (Mr. Seselj, turn off the phone, this is the Assembly) fulfils the rights, if he is professional, and other criteria, the Committee has come into contact and thus valued. So there was no discrimination on national grounds, nor was it taken into account. That's what we did with the judge's election. This remark doesn't stand at all. Self-experience, quality, no matter who's in Serbia's neighbourhood, has the right to work anywhere else in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1275	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motions for election decisions: the deputy republican prosecutor, district attorneys, municipal public prosecutors and deputy municipal public prosecutors, with the amendment and addition of the Republic Public Prosecutor since 4 December 1998. For 202, there are no, 11 abstentions, 11 did not vote, 224 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motions for decisions. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected public prosecutor's office in the election and wish them successful work. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999. [[Applause]] AGODITION Prior to considering the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, I am opening a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by the MP of Life Cvetkovic on: - a draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia - a bill on the use of the funds of the Agrarian budget, - a bill on the provision of funds for the implementation of the social programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, and - a bill on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999. I would ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic, to submit an exposé on economic policy for 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1276	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly is the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, which will be notified by Finance Minister Borisla Milacic. Let me refer to the results achieved in 1998 and the overall economic and reform policy that we intend to implement next year. The objectives of dynamic economic growth, economic and social stability and implementation of reforms in this year have been achieved in much more difficult conditions compared to 1997, as well as the conditions we expected this year. First of all, the pressure of certain parts of the international community on our country has been pressured again because of the principled policy in Kosovo in Metohija and the determination of our leadership and all citizens to defend Serbia and Yugoslavia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. New prohibitions and the abolition of preferences in trade with the European Union, the ban on foreign investment in Yugoslavia, the ban on JAT flights on profitable international lines, the restrictions on payment with inostration, and others have had an extremely negative impact on the dynamics of production and export growth, and on the other hand they have slowed down the processes in their own transformation and restructuring of the economy. In the internal plan of rampaging Albanian terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija and attempting to destabilise Serbia-Yugoslavia with various pressures and threats, above all by the US and NATO, he demanded decisive action and increased resources to defend the country and the security of citizens. At the same time, the overall public consumption, the significant means of reviving production, developing agriculture and stabilising markets with key products have been financed exclusively from domestic real resources, as the planned funds from abroad, from property transformation and other forms of investment in our economy have been lost. In such very unfavourable conditions, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to achieve all basic strategic definitions. In this year, all key indicators of economic growth are positive. Profits have really increased, public spending has been maintained in real terms, annual price growth is half the percentage of the devaluation of the dinar. These are the results which, I am sure, will be able to properly evaluate MPs and all citizens. Let me explain the results achieved in more detail. First, according to official estimates, social product growth in 1998 was over 4%. Positive growth has been achieved by key sectors - industry by 5%, agriculture despite adverse weather conditions by 1%, trade by 10%, traffic by 4% and in fixed areas has been achieved by satisfactory results, which is a solid material basis for further economic growth and development. Serbia's government has made a major contribution to the results achieved through policy-oriented and significant resources. Great financial support has been provided with recovery programmes in the metal complex, in the textile industry, in the leather industry and shoes and in other areas. In the last two years, about 800 million dinars have been invested in the field renewal programme alone. The biggest financial support is given to the agrarian. The total state interventions in agriculture, from dying and subsidising production, through reprogrammes and write down financial commitments, to investments in the development of agrarians and villages, is about 5.5 billion dinars. Price stability, as one of the key objectives, was very difficult in this year due to imposed restrictions on economic relations with abroad, devaluation of dinars and necessary adjustment of monetary policy. The government has managed to stabilise prices through active measures and significant budgets and ensure good supply of vital products. The correctness of such a policy is confirmed by the price stability at the end of the year. Prices in November only rose 1.5%, and a similar situation is expected in December. The greatest efforts are made to achieve sound budgetary discipline and to finance public spending exclusively from real sources. This has succeeded, removing the main danger of the new hub of inflation. In doing so, the Republic budget was implemented strictly as planned, without any rebalancing, while social security funds, especially in terms of pensions, went to provide additional real sources of funding. It is very important that new fiscal measures have been disbursed this year, providing additional financing for production. Furthermore, a package of tax laws, adopted at the previous National Assembly session, allows for an expansion of the tax base, an increase in revenue from excise products, and a further reduction in the grey economy. Despite the difficulties we have faced this year, significant shifts have been made in the area of economic and ownership transformation. Along with the property transformation of the existing ones, the number of new companies is growing very quickly, especially small enterprises. The process has been taking place for several years, which is the best confirmation of the proper policy of the Serbian government in encouraging new economic activities. The honourable MPs, the basic definitions and objectives of economic policy for 1999, which are fully agreed with the federal government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia, are clear. First, it is a maximum and realistic economic growth based on the rise in population standards. We estimate that by providing an adequate market environment, active stabilisation policy measures, faster implementation of reforms and a more favourable international environment, we can achieve a growth of the social product of 7% in 1999, which is significantly higher than other countries, especially European ones. The important assumption of such dynamic economic growth is the faster adaptation of all participants, businesses, banks, states and others, market conditions and international standards. This should also contribute to the policy of structural adjustment, which will allow for greater flexibility of the economic structure, greater efficiency of the adjustment and better valorisation of the comparative advantages of the Serbian economy and its successful inclusion in world goods, financial and technological flows. Only in this way can a qualitative jump in the external trade exchange, especially when it comes to exports. In this regard, the emphasis was placed on the gradual increase in the importance of territorial activity, pro-pulsive industry and construction in the creation of a social product, and, on the other hand, on the accelerated development and establishment of new, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises. In that sense, we also made proposals to the federal government. Also, Serbia's government is preparing a special programme to establish institutional mechanisms and form specialised institutions to encourage the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The second key definition is to achieve price and currency stability. This goal will be achieved through a policy of real and fixed exchange rate, restrictive monetary policy and strict financial discipline in the area of public spending. Therefore, the key task is to reduce the participation of public spending in the social product to 49.5%. When planning the republican budget for next year and the total public expenditures, we have strictly taken care to stick to that basic limit. The budget of 21 billion and 458 million dinars is primarily intended to finance basic state functions, social programmes and public services. The use of budget funds will be based on maximum savings. Significant funds for the development of agriculture have also been provided. For these purposes, more than a billion dinars are foreseen in the Agrarian budget. The draft budget also planned significant funds, which will be invested through the Regional Development Directorate, based in Pristina, to implement the programme of development in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia's government is firmly defined as continuing to run an active social policy, which will be financed from real sources, guaranteeing a regular payment of social incomes. The regular payment will be based on the proposed Security Act to finance the Social Programmes of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. This law provides additional 5 billion dinars for social purposes. At the same time, a redistribution of public spending has been made in favour of social security funds, all in order to make pensions and normal health financing. I would also like to point out that it is agreed to increase the Federation's participation in the distribution of sales tax revenues from 35% to 40% in the following year. Thus, the Republic of Serbia makes a concrete contribution to strengthening the preparedness of the Yugoslav Army for the defence of the country, to ensure obligations based on old foreign exchange savings for citizens, as well as obligations to convert loans to public debt. As regards the reconciliation of the obligation of the state to the citizens of the previous period, a programme of deleveraging towards the population, i.e. other users of various rights, will be drawn up. We're a legal state and we'll settle all our obligations, but not in a fictitious or inflation way. Therefore, the dynamics of their regulation will be aligned with the inflow of funds from property transformation, concession fees and other real sources of financing. It is very important that the adoption of federal law starts the service of old foreign exchange savings, which increases the confidence of citizens in the country and creates conditions for new, so-called savings and accumulation. Prices of products and services should continue to be freely formed based on supply and demand. In the following year, much greater emphasis will be placed on strengthening competition, as the main selector between successful and unsuccessful participants. This implies deregulation in the creation of new businesses, the openness of the market for the entry of new participants and further liberalisation of the external trade regime. Prices of the most important infrastructure products and services remain under the control of the Republic and the Federal Government. So far, prices in infrastructure operations have been significantly removed. This was done on the basis of economic and market criteria, not administrative criteria. The Serbian government will do so in the future, taking into account all economic and social constraints, as well as the dangers of inflationary consequences. The stability of prices and supply of basic agricultural and food products will also be ensured by interventions from stock reserves and imports, if necessary, by limiting the number of traffic intermediaries and other control measures. It is about market policy, which provides for the economic interest of the manufacturer and at the same time protects the standard of citizens, especially those with the lowest incomes. We also expect that a federal price law will soon be passed, where, as is the case in developed market economies, the overall problem of prices will be regulated permanently. Profits in the economy will be freely formed on the basis of results achieved and market-verified, while salaries of employees in social activities and state bodies will be determined on the basis of laws and real opportunities of budgets and funds. It is essential that growth and profit levels do not act destabilisingly without losing their motivational function at the same time. That is why the Serbian government will insist that profit formation is achieved in conditions of enhanced competition, respect for financial discipline and in line with the increase in labour productivity, not based on privileged positions, avoiding tax and contribution payments and on other non-market behaviours. The honourable MPs, exposed to economic policy for 1999, will be supported by a decisive acceleration of the start-up and launch of new reforms. This is a necessary condition for achieving the planned objectives of economic policy, so new reforms will start immediately at the beginning of next year. We are confident that the reforms represent the fundamental long-term interest of our country, and we are determined to go with or without help. During the term of office of this government, a number of significant reform laws have been adopted, including the most important Act on its own transformation, the Law on Enterprises, the Law on concessions and foreign investment, the Law on Audit, as well as a number of other laws. Decisions in those laws have been confirmed mostly in practice, and now it is most important to speed up their application. It is also clear now that some new laws are necessary to establish a comprehensive market economy system. This applies in particular to laws governing debt-confidential relations and bankruptcy procedures for businesses and banks. The government of the Republic of Serbia will also initiate amendments to existing laws, which are within the jurisdiction of the federal authorities. The government's activities in the area of structural reforms have been primarily focused on regulation and monitoring of the property transformation process, which has been entered since the Law was passed by 1,200 companies. The adoption of the Act on the Action Fund and the establishment of a central deposit of actions will create the necessary conditions for further speeding up the property transformation process, and the government will consider the need to adopt additional incentives to speed up this process. The company's own transformation is an inevitable condition for their restructuring. It is said that, in addition to property, most of our businesses are also ahead of business, technological, organisational and market restructuring. This process will take many years, and it is certain that much of it will be achieved through the investment of foreign capital, so that the government will take on certain activities by the coming years to create more suitable conditions for the implementation of this process. First of all, the government will initiate for the first time a federal law on internal debt reprogramme between domestic enterprises. Also, in the coming year, the government will launch a process of restructuring public enterprises and large infrastructure systems, where a large part of the structural problems of our economy are concentrated. Finally, according to available resources, the government will participate in the restructuring of strategic enterprises under a special programme of the government. All this needs to be done as soon as possible, especially in view of the fact that around 58,000 companies employed around 1.440,000 workers have been permanently or occasionally blocked. The blockade accounts for such a large number of businesses, banks and other legal entities prevents the exchange of social products and continuously increases the inequitability of the country and in the end line, affecting the reduction of the rate of economic growth. In the financial sector, even deeper structural reforms are needed. The restructuring of the banking system should be carried out at the same time as previously exposed property transformation and restructuring of enterprises, especially those under the Government's specific programme. It's about two sides of the same problem. A large part of the bank's loans are placed in enterprises that need to be thoroughly restructured. The restructuring and recovery of the banking system should at the same time include the following: firstly, the restructuring of the companies of the largest debtors, secondly, the autonomous market restructuring of banks, prompted by unconditional application of the relevant legal standards in this area and, thirdly, if necessary, direct restructuring of some major banks. The government's resources interventions should be concentrated on a simultaneous restructuring of businesses and banks. In the fiscal area, revenue and expenditure will be harmonised in the coming year, but thus preventing additional debt formation towards citizens and businesses. As already stated, a detachment programme with different opportunities will be proposed in 1999. With a significant tax coverage of the grey economy, mainly excise products, we will go to a greater fiscal burden of profit. Also, the collection of the company's earnings towards the budget and funds based on taxes and contributions will also be settled next year, including the conversion of claims for the debtor's ownership actions. The value tax law should be passed in the first half of 1999, while its successful application takes time from six months to a year. In the medium term, it is necessary to reduce the relative participation of public consumption in the social product, in order to ensure the accumulation of the economy for new investments and economic growth. It is therefore necessary in 1999 to start a mid-term reform of the pension system, health care, education and especially the state and its institutions. The start of a simultaneous reform of banks and company restructuring, together with a balance of revenues and expenditure on public spending, will allow the National Bank of Yugoslavia to carry out appropriate reforms in the domain of monetary and foreign policy. This will create conditions for introducing the convergence of dinars. By speeding up property transformation, building legal infrastructure, the law on financial markets, investment funds and others, our economy and the country should get the right financial market. For its part, it should help the process of simultaneously restructure banks and businesses, deleveraging the state, including foreign exchange savings, to further speed up the government's transformation and to start collecting the accumulated necessary for successful long-term development. The very dynamics of implementing reforms will be consistent with the means available. That's why I said that further reforms go either alone or with loans. Moreover, we must be prepared to finance the entire programme primarily from our own resources and our own forces over the next year or two. If we provide foreign funds during that period, it will only speed up and facilitate overall reforms. The government will soon propose a comprehensive and consistent programme to implement the new reforms launched and launched. It will specify the content of reforms, time dynamics and the necessary means to achieve them. Finally, I would like to stress this in particular, the economic policy and reforms we are going to implement will be the basis for increasing the economic efficiency of businesses, banks and economies in general, achieving macroeconomic stability and speeding up economic growth over the longer term, as well as increasing living standards and greater well-being in the country. In the end, I want to highlight another very important component of our overall reform orientation. In this year, strong and improved parliamentary life in Serbia has been noticeably strengthened. Compared to the first year of functioning of the multi-party system, often burdened with numerous misunderstandings and intolerance, we are now witnessing a much more mature, more tolerant and especially more efficient work of our Skuština. It has been shown that despite the parties' representation of various political orientations, good solutions, which are in the interests of Serbia and its citizens, can be achieved through dialogue and respect for arguments. This, for the overall democratisation of society's major change, has also been done by the Government of People's Unity by defending the country's sovereignty, by improving democratic civil rights and by strengthening local self-government. All these changes are important for the successful overall development of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Dear People's MPs, the next 1999 must be more successful in every way than this one. It should be expected to continue to strengthen the trend of growth in production and standards, which is best told by the fact that since 1994, every year, for five years in a row, we have achieved a significant growth rate, despite the difficulties imposed on the outside. This is possible because we have all the conditions, both human and material, and many years of experience in managing a stabilisation, developmental economic policy, which has a fundamental goal of increasing the standards of our citizens. I therefore ask the MPs to adopt the proposed budget law for 1999 and other legal solutions, because they are an integral part of the overall development reform orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1277	I would like to thank Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic for the submitted exposé, especially on warm estimates and good words for parliament's work. I'd like the Minister of Finance, Borislav Milačić, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1278	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, the public spending policy in 1999 is one of the key foundations of our Republic's economic stabilisation policy. In the following year, public spending policy will have an essential stabilising function to the extent that it will be able to ensure economic recovery and, in the constrained framework, the most rational use of funds for social programmes, education and science, as well as for the financing of state authorities. Proposing a public spending policy for next year, the government of the Republic of Serbia was fully aware of the weight of this task. First of all, it is that public spending distributes about 50% of the social product, that there are laws in the social field defined rights, that we have a large number of institutions of social activity, as well as acquired habits in consumption. On the other hand, the definition of growth in economic activity and structural change, market innovation and reforms mean that the economy should have far more room for accumulation and development. Therefore, in the area of public consumption, the main objective should be to further reduce its participation in the social product. The orientation included public spending policy in 1998. The total public consumption in the social product of 52.5% was planned. Based on the estimate of the movement by the end of the year, we're going to achieve a lower share of -50.7%. This reduction was achieved, above all, due to a reduction in the participation of the Republic's budget. The budget of the Republic remained firmly in the intended nominal amounts, so that its participation in the social product, from the planned 15.9%, was reduced to 13.6% and 2.3 percentage points respectively. A similar effect has been set aside for the federal budget. Other public consumption operators shall exceed or achieve the planned participation in that social product. Nevertheless, it is a strict restrictive policy of the budget and allows for the reduction of planned participation in the social product. At the same time, serious social problems were raised in the area of public spending in 1998, as well as problems in meeting the needs of certain areas of public spending. The burden of providing funds for public consumption has not to the end been fairly distributed. The recent adoption of the tax laws package should contribute to the greater achievement of tax enforcement towards the economic strength of the taxpayers and to extend the tax base based on the translation of the grey economy into the legal economy. The functioning of individual institutions in the area of public spending has brought major difficulties. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund had a constant discrepancies in current incomes and resources needed to reconcile the rights of users. In health care, major problems arise in covering material costs and supplying drugs. All of this shows that, compared to keeping a restrictive policy in total public consumption, it is necessary to access serious structural changes in some of its segments. The honourable MPs, according to a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, have a public spending policy for 1999 with important stabilising features. The main elements of the proposed public consumption policy are the following: First, further reducing the participation of public consumption in the social product. Second, maintaining full balance between public income and public expenditure, and Third, further reducing tax burdens on the economy by including in the legal channels of business as much as possible. The gray economy. In the following year, the participation of public spending in the social product should be 49.5%. This reduction in participation to below 50% of the social product has significant material consequences. The effect of reducing the public consumption rate from the existing 50.7%, which was achieved this year to 49.5%, compared to the social product in the following year is 2 billion dinars. In other words, the economy will have an additional 2 billion dinars in next year for reasons of restrictive public spending policy. This clearly shows that there is significant fiscal redistribution and redistribution in favour of economic funds. In the budget of the proposed amount of public spending, the projection of the social period for 1999 started. Its value was derived from the assessment of the social product achieved in 1998, the planned rate of real growth, the expected price growth in the following year and the increase of the included social product by legalising the grey economy. According to this, Serbia is expected to achieve a 165.5 billion dinar social product in the coming year and that public spending will be 81.9 billion dinars. As part of those quantifications in the following year, a solid stabilisation policy of public consumption will be conducted. This means that the total resources will have to be fully rational, with precise and clearly established priorities. The first priority is to provide realistically higher funds for the federal budget. It is proposed that funds for the federal budget increase participation in Serbia's public spending from 7.8% in 1998 to 9.1% in 1999. That would represent a real increase of 30.4%. The effect of this redistribution will be 2.4 billion dinars. This is necessary to provide greater resources and strengthen the defence readiness of the Yugoslav Army, as well as for other purposes at the federal level, such as the service of commitments based on old foreign savings, the conversion of loans granted to agriculture into public debt. This decision, as we know, was made at the last session of the Yugoslav Parliament. The remaining funds for public spending in the Republic, a total of 66.9 billion dinars, will have to be used as rationally as possible, so that structural discrepancies within public spending are eliminated. When it comes to determining quantitative public spending policy frameworks for next year, the proposed frameworks will be compared with the planned and achieved developments in 1998. The planned sizes for last year, in fact, represent a public spending policy adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the resources achieved relate to the realistic position of individual users of public consumption. For the following year, structural changes are foreseen in the Republic in favour of social insurance organisations. Unlike the budget, social insurance organisations are projected to increase social product participation in 1999 compared to planned participation in 1998. The main burden of stabilising policy next year should be borne by the budgets of the Republic and municipalities. The Republic's budget would have revenue of 21.4 billion dinars or 13% of Serbia's social product. This is for significant 2.9% less than the planned participation for this year, i.e. 0.6 percentage points less than the participation achieved in 1998. The municipalities' budgets would also reduce their participation in the social product, from 5.6% planned and 5.8% of the social product achieved in 1998 to 5.1% in 1999. Their planned participation in the social product for 1999 would fall by only 0.5 percentage points in 1999, much less than in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the structure of the municipality's funds, a significant reduction compared to the achievement in 1998, which significantly exceeded the plan, would have so-called. the means of general municipal consumption. Social security organisations, observed collectively, would have participated in a social product of 22.4%, which is 0.5 percentage points higher than planned participation in 1998. The overall increase in participation will be directed to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Dear People's MPs, starting with such quantitatively established consumption frameworks in the documents that have been delivered to you, are developing a policy of public spending in the following year. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to some of the most important issues of the proposed policy. The first question concerns the instruments of public spending security. There was a lot to say about this issue at last session of the National Assembly, when a package of tax laws was passed. It should be said that the changes that have been made were aimed at, above all, direct tax relief of the economy. One of the most important issues in this area is the necessary efforts to legalise all economic flows and bring the grey economy to a minimum. Of course, tax redistribution of the economy can and must be achieved by bringing the total amount of public spending into acceptable frameworks. However, for an economy that regularly settles its obligations, it is also a disbursement if the defined burden of financing public spending is properly deployed to all participants in economic life. In this respect, significant effects are expected from the measures adopted in parallel with the adoption of a package of tax laws. On the redistribution line, there was a reduction in tax rates. To remind you, the profit tax rate was reduced from 15 to 30% to 14%, the profit rate was reduced from 25 to 20%, and the sales tax found a single rate of 20% and 9%, respectively, so that the lower tax rate on sales, products and services, which are relevant to the population standard, was practically reduced by one percentage point. Also, according to the Federal Assembly's decision, an extraordinary tax for the financing of the Yugoslav Army is being abolished in the coming year, which will all allow for the reduction of the prices of goods and services already at the beginning of the year of 3-4%, depending on the level of the tax burden they had. Public spending instruments will also include incentive elements for certain products, such as clothing, footwear, public hygiene and a 20% tax rate has been established, while allowing the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce this rate for domestic producers by 50%. The possible effect of these tax incentives, for these producers, is about 770 million dinars. With all this in mind, we can say that next year we enter with defined funding instruments for budget spending. Changes are predicted only in the use of individual instruments. Thus, the proportion of the share of income from the sales of products and services between the Republic and the federal budget will change from current 65% to the Republic, and 30% for the Federation, in favour of the federal budget to 60:40 ratio. This is needed in order to achieve a planned increase in the share of the federal budget, and a team before a special federal sales tax has been abolished in financing the country's extraordinary defence costs. As far as the municipality is concerned, there is no forecast for changes in the way resources are provided to classical budget spending. Special tax of 3% on the transport of goods and services to the city of Belgrade has also been retained. However, the allocation of funds for municipal consumption, which significantly surpassed the plan in 1998 and increased its participation in the social product, must be reduced in real terms, primarily by reducing the municipal fee. The reduction of the municipal fee is also necessary to reduce the total fiscal burden of earnings and therefore it is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia generally determines the municipal compensation at a maximum of 3% for municipalities, i.e. cities where there can be a greater reduction of revenues from this municipal fee, and because of the change in the direction of fees towards the place of employment, this fee will be determined at a higher rate, as an exception. As for the instruments providing funding for social security organisations, it should be said that they have long not provided sufficient regular income to finance planned spending. And for that reason, it must resort to providing additional revenue for these purposes. With that in mind, the government proposes to adopt a law on the provision of funds to implement the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. This law practically combines the instrumentation, which already existed and which was introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 1997 and 1998 in order to provide the missing funds from regular revenues to finance the laws of the established social insurance, social and childcare obligations. In addition to existing fees, in particular benefits on oil derivatives, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, payment fees, two new taxes are introduced - on weapons and on mobile phones. It is estimated that the total effect of the source established by this law would amount to around 6 billion dinars and would be around 600 million of these revenues based on new instruments, arms taxes and mobile phones. The funds achieved under this law would primarily be used to pay employees' pensions and farmers' pensions, as well as to pay child benefits. Exceptionally, in the process of consolidation and restructuring of major economic systems, part of these funds could be used to finance social programmes, as an integral part of the structural change process. In general, significant changes must be made in the instruments providing funding for social security organisations in the coming period. Social security organisations should seek, above all, to provide the Pension-Employment Insurance Fund with a large share of the planned funds from regular sources. In order to achieve this, preparations are under way to define in a different way the basis for payment of contributions. As a basis for payment of contributions, the price of work from border collective agreements would be taken. The payment of contributions on such a basis would avoid widespread accounting on the current lowest basis, guaranteed earnings of 200 dinars. This payment mechanism would exclude employees in the metal and textile complex, as well as companies in the consolidation process. The model will be adopted after the detailed impact budget. It is estimated that revenue based on a larger base could leave room to reduce the rate of contribution to profits. In the policy of using funds for public consumption, the basic principle will be maximum rationality and strictly dedicated use according to established priorities. When it comes to the use of the Republic's budget, it should be said that only one part refers to the financing of classical government functions. Much of the budget is meant to finance education, science and social programmes. Thus, over 6.3 billion dinars will be allocated in the Republic's 1999 budget for education and science. Compared to last year, these funds have significant real growth and increase their participation in the overall budget of the Republic. These funds will provide funding for basic, secondary, higher and higher education, student and student standards and science. Under these purposes, funds will also be provided for new initiatives. That's how it is, for example. provided 160 million dinars to form a Fund to encourage scientific work and university development. When these funds add 1.1 billion dinars, which allocate municipalities to primary and secondary education on the basis of the established part of the Republic's tax, covering part of the material costs and investments, total education and science is about 7.4 billion dinars and represent the most significant part of budget spending. The next important item in budget spending is the means to achieve social programmes. It is about funds for the payment of children's allowances, social protection, as well as for fighting and disability protection, which are additional to social security funds. For these purposes, a total of 3.3 billion dinars are foreseen in the Republic's 1999 budget. Part of the funding under the proposed law on the provision of funds for the delivery of social programmes will also be used for these purposes. In the case of funding for social programmes, funds of over 800 million dinars should also be included, which are allocated to municipalities for these purposes. So, for social programmes in the Republic beyond social security funds, more than 4 billion dinars will be provided. As regards the classical budget functions in the Republic, the use of funds policy will be based on maximum savings, both on material costs and on investment spending. An incentive mechanism will be installed at material costs by employees in individual bodies of the Republic. The funds saved above the norms will also be used to increase employees' earnings, as there are no other opportunities to increase them realistically. In the domain of investment budget spending, investment is given priority, and new ones will be able to start only with the government's consent. As part of the classic budget spending, adequate growth in funds to finance the interior ministry has been ensured. It is a common assessment that the proposed amount is the right measure between objective needs, related to complex tasks in the following year and the real material opportunities of the Republic. In line with the possibilities, the budget will also retain certain incentive functions, above all I think of the funds intended for the argratory budget, the stock reserves, as well as the means to encourage regional development. When it comes to encouraging regional development, it should be said that significant stimulating measures are already in place in the tax package. It is about stimulating measures that further stimulate investment in the development of underdeveloped areas. The Development Fund will provide strong support for reviving economic activity and raising and capacity utilisation, especially in the area of Kosovo. The budget allocated to the Kosovo area has also been increased multiplely. In addition, funds to be allocated to the Republic's special account will also be used to encourage regional development. In the coming period, restoring economic activity and encouraging Kosovo's development will be a real priority in the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, the government will prepare a specific programme defining the provision of funds for these purposes, measures, mechanisms and other purposes. The use of municipal funds in classical budget spending should be similar to the policy of using the Republic's budget. Communal consumption, for reasons I have already stated, will result in a reduction of total resources. In this way, the authorities of the municipalities will have to set priorities carefully. In social insurance organisations, due to relatively large consumer rights for which funds have been provided to date, priorities will have to be strictly respected. The first priority for funds, as well as for budgets, should be respect for principles, and can then be paid only for what is real income. This will ensure that the full balance between income and expenditure is maintained, eliminating the potential for a possible deficit. Of course, there remain problems that arise and from the non-execution of laws where rights are established. The issue will need to be considered in particular and to make proposals for its solution, one short and one long term. The solution will certainly not be easy, but it is necessary to define it in order to achieve full stability in public consumption which is in the interest of both the economy and the public consumption users. In the case of the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, the basic principle should be the regularity of pension payments. This principle needs to be subordinated to everything else. We need to get out of this undefined situation where pensioners don't know when they can expect the next pension. In health care, supplies of material, primarily medicines, will have priority, while employee earnings will be increased primarily from funds generated by eligible savings. The important issue of policy and the use of public spending means concerns the possibility of deleveraging the Republic. President Marjanovic gave basic principles for resolving the issue as part of his exposé. It's about debts to the National Bank and debts to the population. It's old-fashioned foreign savings, unrealised rights, etc. In view of the public spending balance options in the following year, there is no objectively possibility of deleveraging the Republic in the following year. The priority in public spending policy will be not to create new current deficits, which is also a very difficult task. With this in mind, two of our Republic's initiatives were adopted at a recent meeting of the Federal Assembly. The first refers to the postponement of the paid commitments of the Republic in the following year under loans from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, according to the loan of the budget, the pension fund and the Stock Reserve Directorate. The second amendment to the Law on the reconciliation of obligations based on the foreign savings of citizens, which ensures that the obligations of the Republic under the law are delayed for the period after 1 January 2000. In this way, our Republic's obligations on this basis amount to 180 million marks and are carried over the period after 2000. As for the reconciliation of obligations to citizens, it is considered that these obligations will only be settled once the funds come from the sale of social and state capital and concession fees. Based on an estimate of the real inflow of these funds, these sources will form a programme of deleveraging towards the population, i.e. other users of various rights. In the meantime, we are fully open to all initiatives and suggestions on how to address this problem in the best possible way, given the real possibilities. In the following year, we expect a more efficient mechanism for operational realisation of the adopted public spending policy. On the basis of recent amendments to the Law on Public Revenue and Expenditure, the government of the Republic of Serbia established a general balance of public income and expenditure for 1999. This balance defines binding frameworks for the total amount and for all types of public spending. This enables the realisation of public consumption policies to take place in line with defined quantitative frameworks. The establishment of a general balance sheet by the Government of the Republic of Serbia takes more responsibility for the realisation of public expenditure in the Republic. In addition to the total amount of funding for individual consumption types, it is also necessary to establish appropriate dynamics in order to avoid distortion of the single public income and expenditure system in the Republic. As a result, three-month quotas for possible consumption will be established for all public consumers. When the public spending bearer reaches a level of 1/3 quarterly dynamics, an additional inflow of funds will be channelled to a special account of the Republic of Serbia. The funds from the special account of the Republic of Serbia will be used for those entities that have not achieved the income of the established and envisaged fiscal dynamics of consumption and for the realisation of social programmes. Dear MPs, proposing a public spending policy, the government of the Republic of Serbia is convinced that it represents a significant contribution to politics and stabilisation in the coming year. We are also sure that the proposed policy is a realistic step towards the long-term harmonisation of relations in the creation and distribution of social products, so that public spending is in line with the available degree of economic and social development, i.e. with the requirements of a modern market economy. Of course, this policy must be followed by many more economic moves. It is about establishing financial discipline, solving problems and regulating internal and external debts, the necessity of bank restructuring, etc. We will have to face these problems in the future and make effective and realistic moves on the line of their long-term resolution. Dear People's MPs, I propose that you support the public spending policy established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that by adopting the law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia, the law on the agrarian budget, the law on the participation of municipalities and cities of sales tax for 1999, as well as the law on the provision of funds for the financing of the Republic's social programme, provide the necessary normative conditions for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1279	I thank Borislav Milačić, Minister of Finance. I ask Professor Jovan Babovic, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1280	Mr. President, honourable MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has led a real but stimulating policy towards agriculture and the village over the past period. Thanks to the measures of the Government of the Republic, with the maximum engagement of our agricultural producers, we have achieved good results in Serbia's agriculture in the past year and despite adverse weather conditions. That's what the following data is best told about. All food balances provide the food safety of our population, provide strategic reserves, and we also have significant amounts of food to export to the world market. All of this has been achieved with considerable and significant investments made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through various interventions in the areas of agriculture, villages, food industry, forestry and water industry. In this year alone, through various interventions in the area of premiums, regresses, subsidies, reprogrammes and loan disposal, then tax exemption, investment in the development and reviving of the village, investment in the development of agricultural machinery and investment in anti-urban protection in the Vojvodina area, some 5.5 billion dinars were invested. I would like to point out that, in line with the strategy for the development of agriculture, villages, food industry, forestry, the water industry of Serbia and in line with the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is our key definition in the area of agrarians that in the coming period the focus is to further increase agricultural production, at least at 3%, to change the production structure in favour of intensive and market-oriented production, our focus is to significantly increase exports and to invest significant resources in reviving the versatile development of our village. In line with the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, given the reality of the resources available, an agrarian budget of a billion 45m dinars is proposed. We will use it primarily in line with development priorities, investment and encouraging livestock production, fruit and vegetables, grapes, industrial plants, those that should contribute to the faster overall development of agriculture and its restructuring towards the export orientation of Serbia's economy. As for the purpose of using the agricultural budget, it is practically 60% of the total agricultural budget, or 632 million dinars, for incentives in the development of livestock production. And, that, for the depletion of milk production - 362 million dinars. It is our aim to ensure the development of cattle production in our Republic, the increased production of milk, and at the same time the production of juniper meat, through the further depletion of livestock production. And on this basis, to create conditions for more rational use of our production capacities, to use our food capacities rationally, and thus to contribute to the faster development and increase of Serbia's agricultural exports, because it is Serbia's breeding spine. The definition is that 0,60 dinars per litre should be allocated for a premium in the flat-rate part and 0,65 dinars for milk premiums in the mountainous mountainous area, and 50 million for livestock development will be directed to regress breeding cattle. It is a basic engine that should ensure further reproduction and a significant increase in productivity in livestock production in the Republic of Serbia. We've directed 62 million for selection measures. They are a predominant basis for introducing improvements in racial composition, productivity, but also for raising the overall economy of livestock production in our Republic. For health care, we have directed 85 million, because the goal is to protect our primary herds and thus general health of people in our Republic. The second distribution and purposes of the agrarian budget are intended for dying in plant production. Since we have defined ourselves to intensify in plant production to difficulties in growing sugar beet, our key definition is to focus 80 million dinars on dying the production of pectary tails, to invest this together with our producers and the food industry, and thus to ensure a stable balance of sugar production in our Republic. The key and strategic definition in our overall development of agriculture is certainly the resuscitation and versatile development of our village. On this basis, our goal is to make investments in the next year to encourage the development of production on the land of our peasants, and on the other hand to invest in the urbanization of our village, by building roads, by waterways. For example, in this year we built in 300 villages of water and brought water, and in the previous year 250, which suggests that the development of infrastructure is a key element to prevent further migration of the population from the village to the city, to keep people in the country, especially young, and to deal with agriculture. I would also like to point out my intention to build and complete anti-building protection, and at the same time that four times more funds have been provided for rockets, in order to better defend our areas from natural disasters. For these purposes, for rockets, 15 million dinars are foreseen. Another key segment, which is a symbiosis of agriculture, is forestry and it is crucial to deploy the agrarian budget by contributing to the improvement of forestry, forest protection, while ensuring forest care, as well as raising new forest plantings. For these purposes, much larger funds are needed, but in the agrarian budget, according to available sources, we predicted 90 million. Finally, 154 million are foreseen for multi-purpose water use, for the completion of existing dams, for the construction of hydrosystems, water supply systems and for the protection against harmful water facts. All in all, I would like to point out that, with the existing reserves of 25 million dinars, the agricultural budget is dedicated towards those priorities which are of general interest to all municipalities and our Republic in general. Of course, there are also professional agricultural services. Our main orientation is that those in the next period, those 800 people who work in them, work in the field of transferring practical knowledge to the holdings of our peasants, on this basis, to improve and increase agricultural and economic production massively. In one word, I suggest you, dear MPs, adopt the proposed agrarian budget. It is also our further incentive, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will encourage the development of agriculture and villages through other measures of economic policy, given that this is our development priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1281	I thank Jovan Babovic, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management for the exhibition. Did MP Pantelija Petrovic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, issue an opinion on the draft law on the use of the funds of the agrarian budget, want to speak? No, I don't. ) Since we are in these ten minutes before the break, I suggest we take a break and continue at 2.30 p.m. (P o s l eep a u z e) We're continuing our work. There is a word from MP Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, and prepare Milan Rodic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1283	Dear paredes, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the exposés of the Prime Minister of National Unity Mirko Marjanovic and the proposed budget law for 1999. The draft budget provides stable sources of funding for basic budgetary commitments and regularity for the payment of social functions, health, education, science and pensions, but also for the promotion of functions in industry, especially the metal complex and agrarian. The proposal reduces public consumption and will, by that restrictive dimension, divide the stabilisation into terms of business and business. The proposed budget reflects a consistent policy of the Government of the People's Unity to ensure social stability and regular financing of vital budgetary commitments, plus the preservation of price and monetary stability and the permanent definition of conditions for comprehensive economic reforms. In such economic policy, the Government of National Unity has received the support of this National Assembly and has consistently implemented it in complex circumstances, economic, political, and international, caused by unfair pressures and threats. This budget continues to be such a successful policy of the Government of National Unity. Most importantly, budget funds will be charged from real sources, which will also have a strong anti-inflation fact, in addition to regular financing of the government's commitments. The draft budget of Kosovo and Metohija, the legislative acts on the participation of local self-government in sales tax, the law on providing funds for the government's social programme, the law on the use of agrarian budget funds, best speak of the government's economic policy priorities in the coming period of its concern for the standard of the most vulnerable categories of citizens. New solutions in the fiscal sphere relieve the economy, extend the circle of taxpayers, reduce the level of arrest, tax what is in the area of luxury, and thus, in addition to fairness, highlight the social dimension of fiscal policy as a basic budgetary mechanism. It is extremely important that the burden of funding of state functions is deployed so that the burden is borne by those who have the most, but at the same time no one is excluded from the obligation to contribute to the financing of the basic functions of the state in the necessary amount. The government measured both the revenue and expenditure side of the budget well. It is realistic and agreeable to the conditions in which our economy and society, our obligations and the challenges that await us. Of course, efforts to adjust and execute budget functions are necessary and necessary, and the government will do so, anyway, as so far, following economic movements. I express my confidence that this proposal, by the Government of National Unity, once again confirmed its commitment to the preservation of social and economic stability, as well as to the financing of government commitments from real sources, which will ensure stable conditions of engagement, price stability and dinars and in the coming year, as well as the continuation of economic growth, implementation of reforms and the provision of a higher standard of living for our citizens. By safeguarding stable conditions of engagement, leading the current social policy, providing incentives for industry and agrarians, regular service of the basic functions of the state, the Government of National Unity best preserves and maintains stability, provides conditions for development and protects our vital national interests. The budget, as an extremely important instrument of government policy, also makes a significant contribution to the Socialist Party of Serbia's proposal to adopt it, as well as to other law-abiding ones. This will create a legal basis and support for the successful implementation of the brave, reform and development policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1284	Thank you. He has the word of MP Milan Rodic, head of the JUL parliamentary club, and let Zarko Jokanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1285	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, members of the government, honourable fellow MPs, we have before us a legislative project that regulates basic issues related to the scope and allocation of funds to finance public expenditures of the Republic of Serbia. The JUL parliamentary group supports the proposed budget law, believing that this law unequivocally and fully defines the resources necessary to meet the constitutional and legal obligations of the Republic. I remind you that at the previous session, we have brought amendments and additions to a number of laws in the fiscal and financial areas, creating a realistic basis for the adoption of budget laws. With the reform of the fiscal system, we have clearly defined the objectives, means and ways of achieving public income and expenditure. The proposed budget law therefore fully illustrates the definitions mentioned. The fact is that funds for public needs are increasingly difficult to provide, while the obligations of the Republic are clearly defined by the Constitution and the laws and must be fully and without exception met. Regardless of these seemingly inconsistencies, one of the basic characteristics of the proposed budget is seen in its basis on real sources of funding. Experience has shown that inflationary budget financing, i.e. public expenditure, has led to economic disaster. The basis of real budgets therefore constitutes one of the basic levers of providing conditions for the stable development of the economy and meeting public needs. Last week, the Federal Assembly brought a federal budget for next year. The adoption of a republican budget will round up the process of defining funding for public needs in our country. According to relevant estimates, the value of the social product of Yugoslavia will be 174 billion dinars in 1999. The proposed volume of the Republic budget fully respects the basic parameters, taking into account the balance of the volume of public expenditure and the value of the social product. This creates a real basis for funding state functions, social programme and public services. Obligations in the field of health and social protection, education, then the agrarian budget, as well as the removal of the consequences and resolution of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, caused by the terrorist's actions, calls for special efforts by the Republic, which can be concluded from the proposed budget items. The Yugoslav Left believes that the full achievement of budget functions can be successfully implemented with regular and complete control of budget spending by their users. The Yugoslav Left therefore explicitly insists on implementing the control measures against everyone and without exception. In this way, the conditions will be ensured that the allocated and pooled funds to finance public needs are used in general and according to their purpose. Dear fellow Members of the People, in the overall consideration of the draft budget, we must bear in mind its development function, which is primarily reflected through the agrarian budget. The estimated appropriations of the agrarian budget are not sufficient, especially if the strategic importance of agriculture, forestry and water economy for the country's overall development, as well as the penetration of foreign markets through attractive and profitable programmes is taken into account. Of course, special attention should be paid in the coming times to increasing the volume of this budget, since the separation for the mentioned industries, especially in the development and improvement of forestry, falls within the line of long-term investment, as the positive effects will also be enjoyed by the coming generations. The experiences of the companies from which I come point out the broad possibilities of achieving a range of production programmes, based on the use of existing potentials, which due to their profitability and the possibility of hiring a free workforce and export orientation deserve full attention. Over 55% of the total area of the Republic of Serbia is known to affect the mountain-mounted area. These areas make up unpolluted, clean space, which provides ideal conditions for the development of livestock farming, food production, mushrooms, medicinal plants and other products, for which high demand exists in the markets of highly developed countries. These areas provide exceptional opportunities for the development of eco tourism. In particular, it should be borne in mind that in these areas the predominantly rural population, which is forced to move to larger cities because of its underdevelopment and lack of production capacity. It is obvious that this process should be stopped by creating conditions for the return of a working population to these parts. This can be done by creating favourable living conditions, building roads, PTT networks, water lines, and especially by financing development programmes right through the agrarian budget. Recently, the board of directors of companies in which I work, consisting of a significant number of government members, attended by Dragan Tomic, Deputy Prime Minister and Professor Jovan Babovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, brought a long-term programme of infrastructure works to protect and improve the forest. This programme contains activities in this area until 2050, according to the settings of the Space Plan on achieving optimal noise. This, during the board of directors, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture unanimously estimated that the programme opens wide development opportunities and progress in highly undeveloped areas, which will positively reflect a number of economic branches. For example, only doing forest work and forest work will create conditions for employment of about 7.5 thousand workers. If we add to this fact the possibility of hiring workers, due to the privatisation and restructuring process of the economy, will be forced to look for other jobs, we come to the right state of things, which will produce the implemented programme. I particularly stress the fact that the planned construction of new forest roads of about a thousand kilometers a year will create conditions for the integration of these villages with developed environments. According to realistic estimates, full implementation of this programme would bring annual revenue of over a billion and 100 million German marks. This should be added to the known fact that the food potential of the forest areas is a multiplicity of wood value. It is precisely in this area that there are great opportunities to achieve a series of profitable programmes, which we have created and which deserve support from the agrarian budget, which would create conditions for the employment of the population in this area. In one word, the achievement of the said programme would contribute to the reviving of our villages and the return of young people to their homes and properties, where they would provide their work with means to live. From the proposed part of the agrarian budget to conclude that a quarter of the necessary funds have been allocated for those purposes. Although we expected more, we respect the government's view that there is currently no room for greater isolation for the mentioned profitable and excessive developmental purposes. I am convinced that in the event of a more orderly and complete inflow of funds into the budget over the year, conditions will be created for an increase in volume. Dear People's MPs, less than a month ago, the Yugoslav Left unequivocally expressed its view of the fundamentals of economic policy in the coming year. One of the basic definitions is particularly seen in the effort to reduce the share of public consumption in the distribution of social products, while maintaining the stability of the dinar course and curbing inflation. The proposed budget, based on real resources, provides sufficient ground for real financing of public expenditure, without hitting the threat of basic economic functions, and therefore merits our support.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1286	There is a word from MP Zarko Jokanovic, head of the New Democracy Parliament Club, and let MP Zlatan Peručić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy believes that the proposed budget for next year is not the most ideal solution and will not be the most ideal way to meet the needs facing our country and our society. However, respecting the state of our country, respecting the huge problem we are facing both as a state and as a nation, and that is the necessity of resolving the Kosovo-Methohic problem and all that results from it, New Democracy will vote for the proposal of this budget, meaning exclusively guided by patriotic reasons that the state and its institutions of the system function during this difficult period for our country. What I can certainly say as a remark from the New Democracy, we expected a slightly different distribution of funds within the budget itself, and it is quite certain that certain adjustments could help to make a slightly better balance in measuring some funds. I can say that for years it has been repeating the practice that the government has defined significant funds for special purposes, and that there is no explanation at all what specific purposes are, what will be financed from it, how it will be controlled and how these funds will be spent. Special purposes in this budget cover about one and a half billion dinars, and that's about 7% of the total proposed budget, but we don't have any explanations how these funds will be spent. I have to say that New Democracy is expressing a lot of skepticism towards finding the most different ways to raise funds to fill the state budget, of which certainly the citizens of this country will be affected by the various kinds of taxis, taxes, taxes and everything in which we seem to be becoming a bit of world champions, because I don't know a country in the world that has so many taxes, special, special, additional taxis and taxes and different kinds of fines that our country has. We support the need to finance everything from real sources of income and the method of printing money to be our distant past, that the method of printing money cannot solve anything, but can only deepen the problems we face. The new democracy, first of all, is for one principle that the tax is paid by everyone in accordance with their economic strength, where indeed those who have more and pay more, and those who have little or no almost nothing, will be completely exempt from various types of tax. We're in favour of a prominent control of the spending of all resources and I don't know, and I'm not exactly sure that the government can achieve what is a beautiful desire and a beautiful intention, and it's about a social product that's planned by 7%. If we do not achieve a 7% social product, the whole budget is practically based on it, then the question remains whether social funds will manage to finance from real funds or whether printing money will have to be filled out. We now have a situation where pensions are a few months late, to pay employees in state authorities, in education, health care is also a few months late. The full-open government in the draft budget, i.e. an explanation, says that next year it will be paid to employees of 10 personal incomes for next year, as it will have to pay off the two lags from this year. I think that's where the mechanisms would have to be found for that late payout to be practically exceeded. That's why we'd like this government to do everything in its power so that this budget doesn't be the generator of some new inflation, and the intention of all funding from real resources doesn't turn into some new printing of money and creating some bigger problems that we have to put out in a much more drastic way afterwards. What I especially want to say, when it comes to certain items in this budget, is that New Democracy thinks little funds have been allocated to the Development Fund. We think that there could have been more space, because it is one of the most significant and important funds, which, above all, has as its primary obligation to motivate and launch production in some industries, in some segments of the economy and hence employment, to increase productivity and finally to increase the material effect that would have repeatedly returned through a better flow of funds into the budget. We don't think there's enough resources in the field of social care for children. We welcome the fact that significant resources for science and technology have been provided. What will remain a painful problem and next year are certainly salaries employed by state authorities, first of all, I mean officials, people who are very safe and responsible for hard work, who will remain practically "the last hole in the playing" with the lowest wages. There, of course, I mean health and education salaries. Small funds have been allocated, and people in these areas will not be able to expect any more significant repairs of their material position. This significant correction of one’s material position will not be counted by people employed in the judiciary, except by judges and public prosecutors, whose other laws will practically increase salaries. What also stings a little bit, and I'm surprised that the government reacted as it reacted in the draft budget law, are extremely small investments in the area of health care and very modest investments in culture, where, for example, this division of the Ministry of Culture is relatively small compared to the entire budget, smaller than last year. Another item is interesting to comment on. These are the funds for the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, one of the country's most significant national, state, cultural and scientific institutions. The illustrations, for example, are intended at an annual level of around 12 million dinars, which is practically 1/3 of the funds provided for special purposes only in one ministry, for example, at the Ministry of Information. Since we are also talking about some other laws that are on the agenda, I have to point out that we will always advocate financing the social programme and that it is not disputed to find ways and mechanisms to fund the social programme. I have a very clear and loud question to make: do we have a social programme? Who adopted this social program? Did the government do it, did it do it by the Parliament? As far as I know, the National Assembly is certainly not, but perhaps the Government has some social program and is now asking the Assembly to declare its funding, and we are not familiar with it, so we would ask that we get an answer to such a question. The social program is one big, serious thing. The social programme is a feature and feature of a modern state. We don't mind it, but we are willing to discuss it, so we don't buy a cat in a bag. We have a law today on funding something why we don't even know if it exists or whether it will exist. But, I'm saying, that's what, first of all, this House could have had to be done. However, I must say, in this way that we have been working so far, we will not get very far. We need genuine and root reforms, not only in the political sphere, but, above all, in the sphere of economy and economy. If we don't have it, we'll tap in place, or we'll go back slowly. I am afraid that the government does not have a sufficiently clear reform orientation and that it does not have a clear vision of root reforms that are needed to solve problems more permanently and more stablely. In that sense, I think it is unacceptable to delay with a serious start-up of rapid, fair, efficient and comprehensive privatisation, because in addition to some of the initial difficulties that each privatisation carries with it, in any case we can lay some better and better quality ground for solving the accumulated economic problems. I think it's good, I recently saw that one of the ministers in the government declared next year a year of incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's very good, that's quality, that's what we've been up for for years. The vice-president of the government, Mr. Tomic, also stood for it. I think that orientation can be real, essential, significant and quality and that it can be one of the first indications that it moves on in this reform course. In any case, there is no progress and improvement for the citizens of this country without complete and comprehensive normalisation of our country's relations with the international community and the European Union and without full involvement in all international, political and economic integration flows. For this reason, I ask the Government to, and in accordance with the conclusion that this assembly has made, do everything possible for Serbia to make every day progress in terms of European integration and for inclusion in all those institutions that will, above all, aim to enable a better and better quality life for all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1288	There is a word from MP Zlatan Peručić, chairman of the Finance Committee, and let Goran Jocic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the proposal, and I think it is important to do so that the Serbian Parliament supports the exposés of the Prime Minister, because the president, who should be given more attention to the economic policy for 1999, has made it quite clear that he has expressed a strong economic and social reform orientation. If this orientation, together with all of us, is supported and supported, it implies a clear signal to both the domestic and the world public in which the Republic of Serbia is heading. The Republic and its institutions are going towards radical reforms and that is what, regardless of the environment and difficulties, should be fully supported. If these reforms, as highlighted in the exposé, include a debt reprogramme between businesses, a government debt reform towards businesses and businesses towards the state, a regulation of the state's debt towards the population, a solution to the problem of corporate loss, then it creates absolutely firm conditions for the uptake of core reform programmes: the launch of the process of essential restructuring of businesses and banks, the balancing of public income and expenditure with the tax discharge of economy, the gradual removal of disparities and the liberalisation of prices, the creation of economic incentives for export expansion and foreign investment in SR Yugoslavia, reforms, as it is said, of the National Bank and monetary policies, the construction of modern financial markets. And all of this in conditions where we have the determination to implement such reforms regardless of whether we have an inflow of foreign capital in 1999 or not. But this kind of signal and policy certainly leads to an autonomous impact on foreign capital inflows and regulation of our overall relations with the international community. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have the strength, will and competence to make a joint decisive step towards the preparation, implementation and acceleration of reform programmes, as is said in the exposé, especially in order to restore our economy and our country as a whole. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposed budget is a continuation of the government's continued efforts to ensure, under the conditions of inherited internal and current external constraints, the realisation of the classical social and development functions of the state, while maintaining price and currency stability in acceptable frameworks. At first glance it seems like a boring phrase, but you have to agree that achieving those objectives in the present environment and circumstances is not an easy task at all. In line with these objectives and limits, a relatively modest increase in Serbia's revenue and expenditure was proposed next year. The projected real growth in income and expenditure next year is 4.1%, less than the projected growth of the social product. The participation of Serbia's budget in the social product in 1999 will be less than this year. The reduction in the participation of the social product budget is the result of the government's permanent efforts to reduce tax burdens on the economy and the population in these times and to create, as far as possible, favourable incentives for investment and growth in the economy. I would remind myself that this reduction was planned, although the commitments of the budget and the state remained completely unchanged and the same. As a result, although the planned reduction in the participation of the social product does not seem spectacular, its achievement will not be easy. It can only be achieved with rigorous discipline and savings. The proposed budget contains a series of positive changes, both on the income and on the distribution side. Since a detailed review has been made and given, I would never speak of it again. The structure of projected revenues for 1999 reflects positive changes in tax legislation, which were adopted this year. The main direction of these changes is to reduce the relative importance of profit tax and increase the importance of consumption tax, i.e. sales tax and excise duties. I believe that this is a positive change and it needs to be highlighted, because it is not sufficiently seen in the proposed budget due to the reduction of the participation of the Republic in sales and excise duties. Another positive change is made through systematic efforts to increase the efficiency of tax collection, i.e. reduce the grey economy, by reducing tax rates and by expanding the tax base. The reduction of the burden on certain excise products, as well as the reduction of the profit tax rate, are steps in that direction. However, the reduction of tax rates and the spread of tax bases is, of course, only one group of measures to curb the grey economy. The second group of measures concerns the need to increase the efficiency of the work of the tax administration. The success in curbing the grey economy depends on the possibility of reducing or closing the fiscal deficit, as well as the possibility of continuing the tax reform. The reduction in the tax burden on wages, as well as the reduction in profit taxes, other than fiscal ones, also has very significant positive overall economic consequences. The reduction of taxes on production, labour and capital factors stimulates demand for labour and capital, creating a favourable environment for the long-term growth of the economy. Finally, the latest changes in property taxation, although not affecting a significant real increase in total tax revenues, are in line with the principle that taxpayers are taxing relatively on their economic strength. The introduction of a progressive taxation of assets will as one of the consequences have an impact on the work of the grey economy. On the other hand, the main changes are facing the social sphere, and I think it's good and it's very good that the country's current intervention in the part of the economy is being reduced, because the ineffectiveness of the country's current interventions in the part of the economy gives justification for reducing the participation of expenditure for these purposes. Of course, the situation in the economy is such that this mechanism of state intervention has to be replaced as soon as possible by new, different and more efficient mechanisms. Given the proposed level, as well as the income and expenditure structure, I believe that the 1999 law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia is accepted as a whole. The adoption of the proposed budget practically means supporting stability policy, as well as the policy of overall reforms. I suggest that it is now being considered to strengthen the mechanisms for its achievement, i.e. to prevent possible overruns. Given that significant resources for social security funds are provided from the budget, it is necessary to ensure that the revenues and expenditures of those funds remain in the frameworks provided for by the consolidated public spending balance in the coming year. Continuing the consolidation of state finances requires the acceleration of start-up reforms in the area next year. In this direction, the following activities are necessary during the year: Permanent monitoring of current revenues and expenditures of budgets and social security funds, in the context of the necessary elimination of the current fiscal deficit, would determine the possibility of an additional fuller coverage of the grey economy, on the one hand, and a gradual review of the rights of users, on the other hand. The formation of the capital balance of the Republic of Serbia under the capital budget would establish the value of the state's assets, the value of claims on the basis of unpaid taxes and contributions, on the one hand, as well as the value of the government's liabilities to the population, businesses, banks and abroad, on the other hand. The objective of these additional activities is to eliminate the current fiscal deficit, as well as to adopt a realistic plan to collect claims and settle debts. A success in achieving these objectives would have multiple positive consequences, starting with a solid basis for stability and growth in the economy, to strengthen the credibility of the state. I believe that the realization of these activities is a natural continuation of the policy that is embedded in the proposed documents, which are ahead of us. The Finance Committee has given its report and I thank this occasion, all MP clubs, for being competent, qualified, tolerated and correct in the Committee on Finance, who have done so and the reports are in front of you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1290	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people Goran Jocic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. Zivadin Jotic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia, firmly defined to preserve price and currency stability and enable economic growth, has offered a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, one of the most important characteristics of reducing public spending in the social product. The restrictions on public spending will create conditions for such an economic environment that will allow for the growth of production and exports, which Serbia is particularly interested in. It is particularly important to us that public expenditure be abolished from real resources, by considering the requirements submitted for the provision of funding in the budget of a number of budget beneficiaries, and according to its definition of reducing public expenditure and financing from real resources. The government had a very difficult job to make from planned incomes to the most real and fairest solution. Of course, everyone could not agree to the extent contained in the submissions. In line with the real revenue planned, it was taken into account to provide the most unnecessarily necessary means to perform the functions of budgetary users. Although we are aware that the funds are not large, with the necessary austerity measures, household behaviour, rationalisation, direction of funds where they are most needed, we think that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will achieve its function. Social programme funds will benefit 5% more users this year compared to 1998 and this shows that the Government of National Unity, in line with the possibilities, is taking care of social protection users, above all from the field of social care for children and martial law. Me, as MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, who lives in Pukovac, in a largely agricultural municipality, the Doljevac municipality, bordering the municipality of Zitoradje and Merošin, which is also a agricultural municipality, particularly rejoices that the amount of funding from the agrarian budget this year has been increased by 10% compared to 1998 and that these funds account for 5% of the total expenditure of the 1999 budget. This means that milk premiums will be paid regularly, cattle production regression, animal health, improvement of livestock farming and other purposes in this area. Of course, we are all aware that agriculture deserves the state's extraordinary attention, that the state owes gratitude to the peasants and farmers and that there is a need to continue to invest known means to improve agriculture. For expenditures, for the exercise of rights in the field of social care for children, funds are planned to pay 12 months of commitments with an increase of 10% per month. The achievement of this objective will also contribute to the planned adoption of a law on the provision of funding for social programmes. We have a hard year, years of isolation, sanctions, threats and pressure, and they've all had a hard time destroying our economy and creating enormous difficulties. I am sure that the government of the People's Unity will be able to create conditions for funding the most necessary functions and needs and, more importantly, that it will manage to address the Kosovo and Metohija problem as will suit Serbia's citizens' wishes expressed in the referendum. This government is thrifty. No new cars, no new apartments for ministers and officials. We expect economic operators and budget beneficiaries to behave that way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear from my presentation that I will vote in favour of the proposed budget and that all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will do so, and I call on other MPs to support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1292	I thank you, he has the floor of MP Milan Mikovic, head of the SPO parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is not an act that collects income, these are individual laws in certain areas. It is an act that determines how what is being collected will be spent. So in this respect, we need to keep this in mind from the very beginning and therefore appreciate whether what the Government has offered us is the best, most useful, whether it will protect certain interests, certain needs, and whether there may be a better solution. Is something important left out, or is something less important put in the first plan or somewhere forward. We must already point out, on behalf of the SPO, that a short time ago here is decided on a set of tax laws, that we have faced these same laws in another form, on the basis of another law called the Law on the Fundamentals of the Tax System, in respect of which the Federal Assembly is responsible, the fact that no agreement has been reached between the Republic and the Federal State in everything, and neither between federal units within Yugoslavia. It's an extremely important question, because let me, regardless of all possible differences in views and disagreements, this is a field where everything is in the worst and most difficult situation, and solutions must be found. Decisions must be found to deal in the same way, to practice, to meet their obligations and to sort of meet needs, the most important needs within a country and one society. There is no doubt in this respect the obligations of all those who have come out today and defended this budget to find certain solutions absolutely quickly, quickly, in an appropriate and responsible manner and in this respect. It's safe, and it's listed here in two swings, that there are some things that we must keep in mind all the time. One of these things is that all the time it has to be kept in mind that the state and Serbia-Yugoslavia, its obligations under existing regulations, can't be resolved all at once, understandably some things have their priorities, but can't happen any moment before someone has confidence that his rights to his own country are not being considered, taken care of and asked for a solution in due course and in the right way. Only then can the state and state authorities have the respect and support of their citizens and their undoubtedly taxpayers. It is certain that the issue of foreign savings, not only foreign savings, and all other issues important to the area, is of capital importance to all of us, because it is also the solution to these problems, it is the only way, the only real way within the country to create trust in banks, in those institutions that need to provide credit for all of these needs that are listed here or the whole series of needs that are listed here. That's one thing. The other thing we have to take care of, it's our responsibility. I can't have all the solutions on the ground -- we'll settle it in 5 or 10 years or even longer. We can't, and we can't, our obligations, which we've created or perhaps partly that someone created before us, transfer everything for generations that come behind us. We can't do that. We need to look for solutions, quick, quick solutions in that direction. It's also mentioned here in the gray economy. The grey economy, to be absolutely clear once, the issue of the gray economy is not regulated in that direction that some who do not work at all according to the law, who do not settle their obligations as others, to rule them out, to prevent them from working. The thing is, we put them in a position to behave the way they should, to settle their share of obligations, and to solve their problems on the one hand, and on the other hand, no doubt, general and common problems in this area. Therefore, I think that in this respect, which is one question, privatisation is another question, relations with the world are a third issue, and everything in the field of budget and economy is a settlement of common needs. All this together and compare absolutely seriously and absolutely responsibly, and if that's the way we go and if we're trying to solve things, then it's doubtless that the matter of the budget is at least for a time a matter of state, a national question and a question that we won't be in a dilemma. He mentioned earlier, I think Mr. Perucic said he was paying attention to the social sphere. At the same time as paying attention to the social sphere, it must also pay attention to the increase in production, to the creation of conditions that can be better worked, that new funds can be made faster and more efficiently, and that they can therefore be subject to the strong obligations that exist in some way at peace. I'd like to make a statement about two or three specific things about this budget. One thing is, you've seen in Article 5, the current budget reserve sets out the funds of 446 million dinars. During last year, 100 million dinars were allocated to that effect. Four and a half times less. Why is it now, at this point, and on the occasion of what is written in Article 5(2), where the funds of Article 1 of this Article are said to be used on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. It is clear that in this respect, the situation is changing to the extent that the budget is not done in some way, not by a decision to be made by the MPs, but by spending money in this regard as the Ministry of Finance estimates. It may be good for a moment, but it is doubtless that wherever the National Assembly can define what the priorities are then that this right from the National Assembly is not transferred to the Ministry of Finance or any other, not expressing mistrust, greater or less trust to one or another ministry. At the Committee session, we raised some more questions, which can also have their own meaning and which ask for some of their answers. There's one thing about the Ministry of Health. For the past year, health care and health insurance funds amounted to 130m dinars, and 60m dinars are foreseen this year. Less than 50%. Although we're told, if I understood that correctly, 21 million dinars went to another side, but that's less than what happened last year. I am not quite sure that the situation in our health care is such that we would leave this question without an answer and without an explanation. There is also a particular question about the situation on the ground with which I am instigating as a national MP, which is a question of environmental protection. Is that a problem, is that a big question, or is that something that's modern behind it standing? Those who don't live in the middle of what Panchevo is probably like, but Bor, Shabac, Subotica, where there are such factories, they're aware of it. Please, for the past year, the Ministry of Environmental Protection had 22 million and eight hundred and some dinars at its disposal. This year, 10 million 811 are projected, thus below 50% of the funds foreseen for last year. We were told that part of the funds went to the Nature Protection Department. The Institute for Nature Protection has gone to 5 million 900,000, but of which 4 million and 900 are related to the salaries and material costs of the ministry, and only a million dinars have gone to - special purposes, where I can assume that these are some money that will be spent to provide all that we need to really protect both nature and the environment. In this regard, we think that we must respond in a serious, responsible way. And, finally, I'm just gonna say two more sentences. The question of pensioners, pensioners, must receive a categorical answer, whether that solution is possible in three months, six months or a year, for any period of time. We can't leave the pensioners without an answer. And what an answer that will be, no doubt stems from a whole series of circumstances that everyone, especially the Government, must take into account. We are aware that something very different from what was written in the budget could not be written or predicted. The only way out is really -- root reforms within the country and -- root reforms in relations with the world, with abroad. Thank you. We'll support the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1294	The People's Messenger, Dr. Zivadin Jotic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragan Vesenov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1295	Mr. President, fellow MPs, I'm going to say something about the use of the Agrarian budget. The agricultural budget, as presented, should serve agriculture as an incentive financial measure. In view of the situation in agriculture, it has not recently been helped with the funds of the agrarian budget, just as well as ten times the amount offered. The funds of the agricultural budget for the development of agriculture and villages secured from the 1999 Republika Srpska budget are one billion and 45 million dinars, or one twentieth, or 20th of the Republic of Serbia's total budget. The Agrarian budget funds are divided into two large groups. The first group are premiums, regresses to revive the village, and in the second group are obligations set out in the Agriculture Act. Through premium funds, the 362 million milk premium is the largest item. The milk premium as an incentive measure, thus defined, amounting to 60 pairs per litre, in 1999, was 40 in 1998, and later 50, should help producers at a total price. The premium should participate in the total price of milk at 25 to 30% of the price. So 1/4 - premiums. Since the buying-in prices in agriculture are back a few years away from real and to the detriment of agricultural producers, comparisons make one liter of milk through a production price of 2.5 or 2.8 dinars means that one liter of milk is below one liter of mineral water in retail, or at a level of half a liter of beer, so I believe that prices are below each reality and to the detriment of agricultural producers. The producers themselves, farmers, would prefer that they can form their own prices, market and producers, as well as some other producers, rather than have their prices determined by the state, i.e. Government or Ministry of Agriculture, and so called - protection prices. The question is, who are these prices protecting, whether a state or a producer? Manufacturer - peasant absolutely not. First, through the ransom prices, which the government determines, they take you and buy everything at a baffle price, and through three or four wars even more rewards, so that later on, as an incentive measures through premiums and regressions, they give and return to the producers of some crumbs. In 1998, illustrations for the sake of milk premiums were not paid from January to June to be paid before harvesting through oil and milklers, to distribute it at official prices for oil. How can a peasant pay off his electric energy debt to an electric power plant when there's no fresh money? He's not gonna get that oil he got. Meanwhile, while he was waiting for premiums, his electricity bill increased several times just on interest. The milk is made by everyone but the manufacturer. They earn dairy, packaging foil manufacturers, printing shops, sieves for labels and shops. As far as the farming regress for 1997 was concerned, it was only paid in 1998, in April, again naturally, through seed corn. Minister Babovic can also testify. Since many hosts bought corn back in March, the one from the regression simply didn't want to take over, because they didn't know what to do with it. And finally, the data that I'm guessing will surprise everyone -- the total debts for the country's handed-over agricultural products to the peasants so far are over 2.5 billion dinars, and the height of the Agricultural Budget that we hope to adopt today, here in this assembly home, is one billion.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1296	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Vesenov, head of the Vojvodina Coalition's parliamentary club, and let the MP Jela Veselic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1297	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I find in front of the Vojvodina Coalition that the draft budget has been made professionally, that he is clear, that he has been reviewed, that it is probably the maximum this government can give, but at the same time, given the Vojvodina Coalition programme, he is politically unacceptable to us. He's politically unacceptable for two reasons. Hence, the budget remains an instrument for redistributing money from developed to semi-developed or underdeveloped, and secondly, what is the main source of Serbia's state budget filling, unfortunately, is currently burdens on citizens, their personal incomes and their assets. It is a sad fact that our country's state budget is primarily filled with skin cuttings to our people, by taxing personal incomes, therefore, salaries and pensions, and that this budget is primarily filled with taxes, fines, communal taxes, car taxes. Tomorrow these fees will be extended, as predicted. It is not so important that taxes are also filled with the state budget, because it is inevitable, but it is important that the poor citizens, the employees, who today pay around 1,100 dinars net, and pensioners, whose pensions are already being paid with a three-and-a-half month deficit, are the main population that fills Serbia's state budget. This is an unacceptable economic situation, and it is this situation that proves the biggest economic crisis in which our country is located, our country is, and our government's inability, given the environment and its internal policy, which it is leading towards the environment and in the country, to produce a new economic policy, which, above all, will be made from sales taxes and other revenues, which are realised by industry and trade, to fill the budget. A budget that lives off the taxation of people, personal incomes, such a budget does not have a great perspective, such a country is heading towards the path of a final economic disaster. For political reasons, we cannot agree to this budget, hence the return of 110 million dinars through it to the Vojvodina Assembly, of 21.5 billion money. This, of course, is not all the money that will go to Vojvodina, but it is this fact that only about 0,60% of Serbia's total state budget, returns to the Vojvodina Assembly, talks about the most difficult economic position of Vojvodina, its colonial position, that the Vojvodina Assembly has almost no financial power to manage affairs in its territory and that exactly what should be the basic affairs of the Vojvodina Assembly, which are education, culture, judiciary, prosecution, and so on. Funds, museums, archives, parks, that this is exactly what Vojvodina is not able to finance with its own money, but must wait for what it will get from Belgrade. These facts we cannot respect and we are aware that the government, however, and God knows what more to do than this, since it is limited by the Constitution of Serbia, for us this constitution of Serbia is unacceptable, because we consider it a single-party assembly, it was brought in 1990, without the will of citizens and without the will of Vojvodina. But that is not the reason, because the Constitution is the main culprit for this, to vote in favour of the government's budget, which we believe does not meet our needs. This budget keeps the so-called so-called budget. The Development Fund. He's receiving $258 million worth of money. The Development Fund should be abolished unconditionally and not supported by its existence. Any development fund at country level is the expression of a long-lived socialist policy. No general investment and other funds can exist at the state level, where they would finance industrial development. Industry and trade must develop with their own resources, support bank money, from country and abroad. The state is only obliged to offer assistance when some interventions are necessary. The state as a financier, as a capitalist, as an investor in economic affairs, such a state would be an expression of new ethics and we are against it. Finally, the Serbian Development Fund probably gave a report on its past business to the government. But we don't have any reports here about his activities so far, and the public is very much saying that one lion's share of that money, in a magical way, was filled with mysterious decisions distributed to others, that one large part of that money was not returned in time and that there was a reprogramming. Our country is one where debtors constantly defeat creditors and where trustees have long lost, where millions of citizens have lost foreign exchange, dinar savings, businesses have not returned loans, banks do not repay each other's loans. Where the debtors beat the creditors, where they can't go under liquidation, where the property isn't sold out to pay back, there's no perspective for our country. Finally, Vojvodina cannot agree to this, however difficult the situation in Kosovo, that Kosovo's regions receive more money than the Vojvodina region, the average regions in Kosovo receive 1,100,000 dinars, while the Vojvodina regions receive an average of 900,000 dinars. However, Vojvodina and Kosovo cannot be compared, by development they certainly cannot, perhaps by many other elements, but we think that this budget is a difficult instrument to redistribute and that it is precisely at the expense of those who are developing and trying to maintain their productivity, their industry, that money from them goes to areas that this money cannot earn. We understand also the heavy political, military, police, etc. the situation in Kosovo. The Vojvodina coalition specifically said on so many occasions that Serbia's state integrity is incomparable, that we are in favour of a policy of non-injurious borders, that we consider Kosovo part of Serbia which cannot be singled out, but at the same time we are not for Kosovo's cities in transport tax to participate so that they can retain almost total sales tax without many cities and municipalities can do so in Vojvodina and Serbia. We believe that in Kosovo, regardless of whether it is Serbian parts or Albanian, they have the same responsibility for maintaining joint functions in the state of Serbia as well as Serbia and Vojvodina, and that they cannot be privileged to keep the money from the sales tax on their territory and that the state administration of Serbia is maintained only by Serbia and Vojvodina. We are not for the Serbian state budget to finance certain infrastructure works in any city, including Pristina. No matter what Pristina gets under this budget, if it votes, only four million dinars for warmth. We don't see why other funds couldn't be allocated to any other city in Serbia or Vojvodina for the same reason, or for some other reason. A few words about the Agrarian budget. The agrarian budget as an idea is an extraordinary thing and many have advocated it 10 years ago. Today, however, farmers and agriculture are probably owed no less than 1.5 billion dinars. During the adoption of last year's Agricultural Budget, we pointed out that as long as the debts of the state and state organisations, social organisations towards farmers for sugar beet, sunflower, milk and other products cannot be paid out, a new Agrarian budget which will not be respected and where the new Agrarian budget will predict that it is doing what should have been done last year and what has not been done. The budget should be spent in this way that debts will be settled, primarily towards farmers and primary agricultural producers. The Vojvodina coalition is not for price protection policy, it's not for buy-in policy. We ask Serbia to release the Duke's policy of protection prices. We don't need protection prices. We want free trade, in the country and out. We want free flow of goods, money and capital. What is proposed by the agrarian budget is to give 0,60 dinars per litre of milk as a premium to milk producers. So far, many dairy producers have not received the premium. We're predicting the milk premium again, and the previous ones haven't been paid. At the same time, the proposed budget notes that agrarian policy would be conducted so that the price of milk cannot be more than three times the amount of ransom, which means no more than two dinars, perhaps less. We find that unacceptable. We're looking for a free policy to educate the price of milk. Now the price of milk is far below the price of mineral water. Time, please. ) The normal ratio between the price of milk and diesel is - for a liter of milk one liter of diesel. You can't run a very bad milk premium policy by giving only 0.60 dinars and keeping the ransom price at an eye level of nearly two dinars. If this is a government policy, it will lead to a new blow to the production of milk and to the decline of agricultural products. Discrimination over premiums for dairy producers in Vojvodina is unacceptable compared to Serbia's producer. It is unacceptable for Serbia's milk premium to be 0.65 and 0.60 dinars in Vojvodina. Vojvodina produces more than twice as much milk production in Serbia, in Vojvodina it is produced on farms, not in free pasture. It is unacceptable to punish the Vojvodina, and its farm production, and to discriminate against the Duke's peasant... (President: Time, Mr. Veselinov, please. )......................................................................................................... and to be paid a smaller premium than that given in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1298	The People's Messenger Jela Veselic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zoran Kostadinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1299	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the Government, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the agenda item we are now discussing is the most important one in today's session, and I have therefore defined myself to take part in the debate in principle. I must say immediately that I am giving full support to this draft budget, with the desire to be fully implemented in the proposed frameworks, with the appeal of other MPs and other parliamentary parties to support this proposal. The budget is very restrictive, non-inflation, with more real fiscal sources and solid monetary policy. I am sure that not all budget users will be fully satisfied with the level of resources identified, but the government must remain consistent with its definitions. Last financial year was very difficult. Public spending policy was to be maintained in the planned frameworks, with a tendency to reduce, while responding to all users, while serving new needs that were not envisaged, in the conditions of direct war threats to the country and so far the unprecedented pressures of the international community, which continue to be unabated. The government of people's unity, headed by Mirko Marjanovic, has largely succeeded. The government must continue to insist on its strategic definition that the share of public consumption in the social product must be reduced to create more favourable conditions for economic development. The projected amount of 49.5 shall not be exceeded. On the contrary, all laws must be applied and the legal system of the state activated to increase the social product, based on the legalisation of the gray economy, which is now estimated to be 40%, and that is, you will agree, still a very high percentage. Still stable prices and a stable rate of dinars must be maintained, going more aggressively in the continuation of reforms, creating a more favourable economic environment. Further efforts should be made to attract foreign capital to Serbia. First of all, I think of laws that regulate foreign investment. They must be improved and, most importantly, to be a longer century. With full confidence in the government, I expect that it will enable funding from real sources of all classical budget functions, the exercise of rights in the field of social programmes, in the area of incentives and the development of public services, health, autonomous provinces, municipalities and cities, according to already established principles. I expect that further maximum austerity and rationalisation measures will be taken according to the volume of funds provided by this law and will be spent only as much as collected. In all this, the government must have support, primarily for us MPs and this Parliament, and also for all others in charge of the implementation of such a programme. All for the sake of the citizens and the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to comment on the Agrarian Budget Bill with a few words. First of all, the Committee on Agriculture, as a parent board, was considering this law yesterday and giving full support to this proposal. This year, there was an increase in the Agrarian budget of 10% compared to last year. What is very important to say, and what is often mixed with some other means, is that the appropriations from the agrarian budget are primarily incentives and development funds, which the government has defined for the past few years. It should be noted that these are not the only funds identified for the development of agriculture and agrarians and that, on other grounds, the government invested about four times more funds this year for the development of agrarians than is provided for in the Agricultural Budget. Therefore, we cannot ask for intervention from the Agrarian budget for the payment of some purchased agricultural products, such as sugar tail, soybean or sunflower. This is not the government's obligation, nor is it an obligation from the Agricultural Budget, but is the obligation of those who have entered into shopping relations with agricultural producers. I would also like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made significant investments in agrar this year through economic policy measures, investment from the Development Fund and through the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate. First of all, most of the funds went to develop livestock, which is the basis for agricultural production. The example is the funds provided for the milk premium and how these funds started to be provided we came to a stable production of milk and I think that the price of 25 to 30% of the total price is very significant and stimulating, as seen on the market, that in the last few years we have an extremely increased production of milk. Also, the resources provided for the dying of industrial plants are very important and these funds aim to make additional efforts, to prestructure plant production in favour of industrial plants as an intensive plant. Also, very significant funds are also aimed at the development of forestry, the construction of a water supply system, which our resolution minister spoke of today. From the Fund for the Development of the Republic, the largest part of the funds is aimed at developing livestock, early fruit and one very important action that has been under way for the last two years, which is the Programme of Reconstruction and Menachisation, which has produced great results and, in the interest of agricultural producers, should be made to continue, for the renewal of agricultural machinery, with the provision of such funds. I expect that this year the government will successfully implement both the agrarian budget and other funds provided for the development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1300	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic, and let the People's Messenger Miodrag Disic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1301	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I will talk about the Agrarian budget and the taxes on weapons. The Serbian Renewal Movement supports the formation of the Agricultural Budget, and normally we as an agrarian country should have an agrarian budget. However, there are certain fears in us that I will try to bring out. You know that in our country, it's privately owned, like, 70 or 90, and maybe even more percent of the country. As you have the ruling majority in the congregation, we respect that. This is the way to respect the situation in agriculture. So we should respect the private sector, individual agricultural producers, because they hold 90% of the country in our country. I expected it to be formulated in Article 3. It means they're farmers in the first place, not the last. Then, lastly, in this same article, to be scientific research organisations, and then to come from both agricultural cooperatives and agricultural holdings. It is the impression that the Agrarian budget, as it is, given how the funds are allocated, will again serve to cover some of the losses that exist in certain combinations. I'm going to give an example of the Agricultural Good Salash in Timoko Province, which is certainly over 20 million losses at the moment. So there's going to be some means of going back to the bottomless hole, and we're not going to achieve anything. So it would be, at least from the Ministry, wiser to divide the Agrarian budget in a certain sense and return to this same budget. So all the funds that are allocated to go through a certain deadline have to be returned. That way, the budget would increase and have a purpose. In Article 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia prescribes conditions and means of use of the Agrarian budget. We have serious issues here, because I think, and we all think that control won't be very effective. The agricultural budget will be used that way, especially where milk production is stimulated. So, it's going to be divided into milkers, organizations that buy that milk, and they mostly use those funds that they get from the budget for other needs and very late, and sometimes they never pay to farmers. It would therefore be very wise if certain institutions were to be created to control the distribution method. Afterwards, dairy producers, but who after that produce in their household, have no chance of getting any regress, because in this way they have to deliver milk to the company or the milkmen, so that this law, as it is, does not promise that enough money will come to farmers. Finally, as far as the Agrarian budget is concerned, I am obliged to say from our field experience that we have mostly farmers, who get some funding from the Republic, divides on the party line, which will have very negative effects. But it could also be solved if it were to be proportionate. However, the fact is that you, apart from the members of the JUL and the SPS, will not be able to find some peasant that he has received some funds if he does not belong to these two political organisations. Finally, I would take the opportunity to say something about the proposal for a law on the security of funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. I'd like to pay attention here to gun charges. These arms charges will most likely disarm the Serbian people. I would remind you that the Obrenovic dynasty once disarmed the Serbian people and then had a Timoska rebellion. Of course, I'm kidding, probably Timo's riots won't be, because there's no one to pick her up. We no longer have Pasic and his like radicals who were in conflict with the government, who emigrated to Bulgaria, who were shot at the Queen. So, at this point, it's not gonna happen, but what's gonna happen? I don't think the legislator has taken enough care of the fact that there is a tradition in the Serbian people of keeping weapons and carrying weapons from knee to knee. So we're going to be in a situation where many widows of hunters, who keep weapons for their sons and grandchildren, will be forced to alienate him, but it's very difficult to find a buyer under these conditions and how it's happening here now. The next group, which will be greatly affected by this law, is a group of people who work in collection and have collections of firearms. There are an entire significant number of people who have preserved rifles that are extremely collectorial, and these collections range from 10, 15, and up to a hundred pieces. It's really gonna be a disaster for them. Collections will have to be simply destroyed. I also think that one big group of people will hit this bill, and that's hunters. Believe me, it's a significant number of voters and I don't think the SPO will support these taxes, not the whole law. There are a lot of people in Serbia who are involved in sports, who are doing their hobby perfectly legally, and this is really going to hit them hard. Of course, they're going to hit those people who hunt for passion, because they're going to think very carefully about getting a better carabine produced in Kragujeva's flag, given that they have two old ones and how much that's going to reflect on their budget. Finally, to say the following, and the taxes themselves, even if they were accepted, are too large, given the average personal income that people have in Serbia today, so I suggest, and that would be politically wise for you, too, to give up a gun taxi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1302	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people Miodrag Disic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milivoja Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1303	Mr. President, respected members of the government and fellow MPs, today the most significant legal act of a country in the domain of economic policy, is one legal act that is also the constitutional right of this state to present its revenues and all its expenditures with this budget. Clearly, an act for which, if adopted today by the Assembly, the government of Serbia, as it is also responsible for the overall public spending policy, will be held accountable. I wouldn't agree with my colleague Mikovic if this were just an act of spending. For me, the equal and the income and expenditure side of the budget and it's no easier to provide these 21.5 billion revenues, it seems to me that it's much easier to schedule and spend, and so it shows the wishes of the budget users, which you know we have recorded over 40 for the 1999 funds. That's over 45 billion, there were such demands. I want to talk more about the budget because of the citizens who are watching us, and for the reason that the budget, as a matter that is not available and understandable to the wider layer of our citizens, should be said that whenever the budget is mentioned, it is immediately thought of spending, of the administration, of the spending of people's money, and of the public, or of the media, by the papers, it is trying to bring the citizens of this country closer to what is essentially the budget and what is financed from it. It should be said that this is a financial act, which finances full education, basic, medium and high, health care, social protection, justice, culture, sport, the material costs of the government's authority. In particular, as an incentive part of the budget is the Agrarian budget. Therefore, these are basic things financed from Serbia's budget. It is clear that we are not repeating that the strategic definition of the Serbian government is based on public spending policy, which this government has established out of the goals of ensuring price and currency capacity and thus allowing such economic growth in the coming year, that the strategic goal of the proposal for this budget was that it has a lower participation in the social product compared to 1998. Clearly, with 53.7% in 1998 his participation in the social product for 1999 was 49.5%. The basic principle is, I hope that the Government will endure on it, the principle of sound budgetary constraints, and that thus shows the growth of this budget compared to the 1998 budget of 34.1%, although both budgets were created in different economic situations, and that we are not saying that the different course of the dinar was at the time when they were created and that fact itself shows that the desire for one restrictiveity was present at the beginning. As far as the revenue side of the budget is concerned, I think some principles have been respected, and as one of the colleagues said, maybe political parties don't have to accept this budget, and maybe it looks nice to say to the citizens, it's a shame that from the income tax, but these are basic economic principles and many of the budgets of many European states are resting on it, and it's clear that Serbia's budget is also starting from that -- that from the total amount of around 19 billion is from the income tax of citizens, taxes on property and excise and sales taxes. It is clear that the economic theory here would now say that it might be easier to, instead of the taxis that we are talking about, go to the principle of progressive tax, to tackle the principle -- who has more than one and more to catch, but I think that with these accompanying, or legal projects that we adopted in the previous session of the Assembly, or a whole set of fiscal, tax laws from the fiscal area, we have provided at least part of that principle, and part of that principle seems to me to be applied to these taxis as well. The fact is that taxes don't increase the social product and that they're not popular on that economic side, but the fact that, according to one colleague, there's nowhere in the world to work like this, but there's nowhere in the world that today the state is being pressed like this, blocked from all sides and plus the consequences of the seven-year blockade. So one basic principle of the income side of the budget is respected. As far as the expenditure side of the budget is concerned, we can talk about it individually and whether someone is related to this or that portfolio, to this or that area, it is clear that on the other side there is always a struggle to win the most, to reconcile all the needs that are planned in the coming year, but the fact that the requests of the budget users could not be adopted in the extent to which the needs say they should. But it's clear that most of the expenditure items go right into those areas -- and I'm just going to give an example, we have 141,000 employees in public services, and these are mostly primary, secondary and higher education, student and student standards, science and technology, physical culture, sport and so on. , and this draws 31.8% of the budget, adding that funding for social programmes, i.e. social protection of 15.3 -- the fact is that this part of the spending party has been taken care of and that -- as our people say -- how much gum we have and we have to spread out so much, otherwise we're getting tired of the tabs. So, in that part of the spending party, it could be said that somewhere it took more or less, but the fact that even on the Finance Committee, it was all a demand of 20, 50 or 100 million to take it there and give it here, but there's no one in general. I see that it points to this item of the budget reserve, which is about 2% of the amount of the budget, so if the budgets of the municipalities are given the right to keep this current budget reserve at a level of 1%, and here the proposal has a space of 2%, and what Mr. Milacic said, would it not be normal for someone who makes such an act at an annual level to leave the space of 5% wrong, that, possibly during the year, one of the positions of expenditure items has been underestimated or intervened in some part or created situation that could not have been predicted in the formation of the budget. All in all, and in the end, it can be said that the basic characteristics of this summary budget are the restrictive and sound budgetary constraints, the financing of expenditure from real sources, the smoother participation in the social product than in 1998, the budgetary balance, the priority financing of state bodies, the realisation of social programmes, incentives and interventions in the economy, especially through the Agricultural budget, all in all, an entirely good act that gives us a basis for us to achieve this side in better conditions in the current year and that we are able to make sense of all this from expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1304	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milivoje Miletic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1305	Dear colleagues, the budget is indeed a real cause for the interest of wider structures and each individual of our society. What is of particular importance to the economy, these are certain realities that are respected in the concept of the most fundamental, I would say, and also the most radical solutions offered through this document. Certainly in this reality is primarily high in liquidity in the economy, which has simply achieved such a situation that a whole series of economic operators are extremely difficult because of this business and uncleared, I would say, debt-confidential relations are also the cause of the extreme line, as is said in the exposé, a reduced economic initiative. Also, the high level of public spending is our reality, and we had the opportunity to talk about it when the law was passed, the previous tax package of laws. Our reality is also external non-economic constraints, which are known in terms of certain disadvantages, or suspension of preferences, a ban on investment and so on. Our reality is also the need to change the economic structure. I think that fact is simply sufficiently highlighted in the bill of this law. Indeed, the question is what is the concept and how to change that economic structure. One, and this is by entering into company restructuring, by entering into a process that is not itself the goal of having property changes, but above all is on the line, given the state of business, to make changes in both organisational and certain programming definitions, and status changes, business and so on. It is certainly a broader process that we have already entered, but which should basically be supported by a whole series, I would say, legislative projects and measures that fall within the scope of current economic policy. That is why I believe that, apart from what has been said here about the budget, and certain indications specifically mentioned in President Marjanovic's exposé are also of great importance for entering such a significant process. Indeed, it is a fact that only a clear ownership structure can definitely contribute to attracting capital and that is one of the strategies that needs more respect, to attract both foreign and domestic capital, in order to further develop our businesses, i.e. our society as a whole. So, all in all, it's about one need for our businesses to be efficient, competitive, to be profitable, and to answer this question, I would say that it lies to the greatest extent possible and to the extent and quite concrete things that arise from this budget, but from those above all the details that are indicated in the exposé. I find it extremely significant that this dimension of internal debt is simply taken into account absolutely all these measures that are on the line of debt regulation, so the very announcement of the law on reprogramme, internal debt, I think is extremely significant. So it's not just about regulating the debts between businesses, it's about the state and the population, between those entities that make up our entire system of economy. It is also important that the participation of the social product budget in the same rights has been reduced, but also in the same obligations, as regards the beneficiary of the budget. It's such a commitment and it's possible, and quite realistically and realistically, with the influence and solution that, above all, the problems that are present and related to the gray economy, that these flows are legalised, so that most of the funds, which are in these flows, go into the budget. Then, the restructuring of banks and businesses is particularly highlighted here, and this is a unique process, which will allow businesses to set up new bases and banks, given that there are opportunities, and I know that it is in use and that the ability to convert deposits will also be used in a good part, so that it will also be one way that is in line with those projected objectives. From what I've said, when it comes to the draft budget projection, I think that these are quite enough reasons, with what's said in terms of the social aspect of this document, I think that these are sufficient reasons and that we support this project today and simply in the coming year, through, above all, the measures of the current economic policy we influence as Parliament in the government, to draw up economic policy and objectives, to be put forward in this budget and implement.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1306	Thank you. There is a word from the MP Nebojsa Lekovi, and let the MP Radoslav Jovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Democracy will support the budget law, primarily because of the situation that is in our country and above all because of Kosovo. However, New Democracy cannot support such a bill on the provision of funding for the implementation of the social programme, above all, that it is a set of burdens that burden the impoverished budgets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the social programme has never been brought into this assembly, and as far as we know such a similar act has never been brought into the government of the Republic of Serbia. A few months ago, the federal government passed a regulation that abolished customs duties and taxes on imports of cosmic aircraft. We may be celestial people, but we're still using these ground-floor means of transport, so I'm gonna take it slow. New democracy is pushing for the suspension of the motor vehicle registration fee. We wrote about it to the Prime Minister, Mr. Marjanovic, asking for that tax to be abolished. The tax on registration of motor vehicles has already been established by the government's regulation and has caused great dissatisfaction with the citizens. This is why it is not required by law, because in our country the largest number of passenger cars over 15 years old, which poses a significant risk to people's lives, and urban and suburban traffic is unable to meet 50% of the objective needs of transport. The capital doesn't have a subway, and it doesn't seem to get anywhere near it. There's one car factory, read the flag, which doesn't even work a fifth of its capacity. Far the largest number of inhabitants can barely support their old, mostly flag vehicles, whose value is often less than registration fees without the proposed fee. I must say, citizens have already paid their taxes once. First when buying a car and always paying for it when buying gasoline. As far as mobile phones are concerned, New Democracy is committed to abolishing mobile phone charges because they represent a means of modern technology and communication and their wider use should be encouraged, not punished. I don't know how we find everything new to be a luxury. As I recall from the stories, once the washing machine was considered a luxury. And instead of encouraging the state to use mobile phones, it gives them away for free to the citizens so they can make phone calls, making impulses, and that's what makes the country benefit. A new democracy proposes that arms registration fees be abolished. Many hunting associations from Serbia have reported around these taxis, and half an hour ago, the Hunting Association of Zlatibor, secretary of Mr. Bucic, is demanding that arms charges be lifted. By the way, it's all kinds of guns owned by citizens, guns, hunting carbines, hunting rifles, air guns, although here I'm being held back by a little bow and arrow. Maybe some people here want to turn this country into an Indian reserve, but this isn't right. A tax on trophy weapons was also offered. Imagine someone who, in this last war or this liberation year, fought against the enemy, hijacked the gun, and now has to pay a fee for fighting for this country. No matter how much it is, it speaks of the relationship to these people or to their successors, and it is a memory of them or of the fight against the enemy. I would like to remind you of the fees that Serbian citizens are paying at the moment. The citizens and businesses of Serbia so far have been burdened with taxes and contributions to one dinar of wages at 1.3 dinars of taxes. In addition to regular taxes in the last year, new taxes and taxes have been introduced and so on - rail tax 3%, military tax 4%, earthquake tax 0.15%, Belgrade tax 3%, with regular taxes the total burden of citizens is 25.15%. There's also car re-registration fees. The "South" minimum is 600 dinars, and for a change in the table of 200 dinars, for leaving the country 100 dinars, for an electric number, for anti-urban protection, for various municipal taxes, and therefore I propose that this law should not be accepted because it does not go in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1308	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Jovic, and let MP Zoran Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, "The salvation of the peoples shall be the highest law" is the maximum public right of Rome created centuries ago. Is the budget law proposed to this Parliament in the spirit of this maximum? Could this most important document provide salvation to our people, who have long ago groaning under the burden of poverty and misery. Let us turn around, fellow MPs, at least for a moment forget the fact that our incomes are enough at least for a decent life, and ask ourselves who are these people who are supposed to fill the state budget? So, what do we see? We'll see thousands of companies in bankruptcy or bankruptcy. We'll see hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers, banks that aren't banks long ago, have been robbed, young people finishing schools and colleges and surviving smuggling, all looking for a way out of Serbia, hoping to find some promised country that, unfortunately, isn't called Serbia. We will often see old women and old women looking for bread barks in containers, farmers who have nothing to do with plowing their fields or selling their products to anyone. We'll see empty shops, loose cafes and hotels, abandoned resorts, empty drugstores, sick people with nothing to buy medicine, we'll see imaginary doctors with empty pockets, teachers and teachers who forgot when they could last buy themselves at least one book. We'll see kids who rarely taste chocolate. We'll see the stripes healed in weeds, mothers sitting on sidewalks with their children, passing a dinar for bread and milk. At night, we will see many unlit windows due to unpaid electricity bills. We'll see the serious, imaginary faces of our neighbors, friends and relatives. Who are these people we're gonna see? These are our fellow citizens, citizens of this country, who unfortunately make up most of it. From their pockets of new tax laws, distinguished colleagues, we want to fill the state register. From their pockets we will also take for our salaries and salaries of army officials in this country. Does that make sense who we represent here? These people, this tormented people, should give the country Serbia the full sense of the words of the country. The territory plus contented, rich, happy, free, educated, educated man makes a substrate of the concept of homeland. Do we have all that? If we don't, why don't we? Aren't those the questions that we today and here need to answer honestly as people, looking each other in the eyes and for a moment even forgetting that we belong to different parties, ideologies, parties. The same people, the same people who live the way they live, or better to say they survive, may already have to defend their country from terrorists and aggression of every kind tomorrow. Let's think about it a little bit. And on the other side, what do we see? A small number of people buy villas, expensive cars, make shiny receptions, eye camera creates a false vision of luxury and splendor, the promised future in which an ordinary man can only set foot thanks to countless games of happiness in the style of "Bingo", "Loto" and so on. In the end, what can I say to my Royals, whose proposed law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999 reduced the rate of funds returned by about 5%? Which will finance education, health care, culture, sport, if you consider that in the course of last year, the state of the municipality of Kralje is dramatically worsened. Companies that formed the backbone of the King's development, such as "Jasen", the Magnochrom Car Factory, are either ahead of bankruptcy or barely putting an end to the end. More than half the workers receive nothing or receive several hundred dinars. Attending, tourism, shopping are on their knees. Why are high-ranking state officials avoiding visiting my city and facing this bitter truth. In any case, we're not all well written, so as a SPI MP, and as a man, I know it's a very difficult year for us, and we're just going to feel the bitterness of many defeats. If by a wise state policy, for what SPO has always advocated, Serbia is soon not returned to Europe and the world, if we do not bring our interests into line with the interests of the international community, all the documents we bring today will be almost pointless. In that name, I would at least ask some parties to stop inappropriate advertising municipalities in which they are in power, because that only creates anger in people and causes new unfortunate divisions between us and now that it's the hardest thing for us. I would also, as an expression of the goodwill of this House, ask all of you MPs to correct even those laws that we have recently passed, which only unnecessarily distance us from the developed world. First of all, I'm talking about the University Act and the Information Act. This will make a reasonable step and show this troubled people that we are doing everything we can, and in accordance with the maximum "Save of the People, be the highest law".
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1310	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic, and let MP Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have learned in our epic songs that the Queen Marko has been draining drenovine for nine years. Nine years ago, a republican prime minister told the speaker that he was unable to drain dinars from dry Drenonine. Mr. Marjanović, current president, so-called The governments of the people's unity are known for the constant concentration they use - "price and currency stability". But there's a folk proverb that says, "If a goat lies, the horn doesn't lie." A little later, you will see, on the agenda, we have a law on changes and additions to the Criminal Act, where money amounts representing the element of criminality are expected to increase from 10 to 15 times, and in the light of the Government's proposal, it has been said that since the last change of the KZ since 1995, so far, there has been so much depravation of the dinar value, that KZ is inconclusive. Whether it's currency and dinar stability, you can conclude from it yourself. Modern countries of the West are rising if public consumption has significant participation in the social product. Well, the 19th-century states, which had only budget-restrictively filled the budget, to achieve the classical functions of the states, fought against social rights, against a certain role of the state in managing the economy, against everything that the modern Western state, which we call the capitalist state, has introduced. So let's say for more Kensian doctrine we have so-called. the welfare state. Today in Sweden there is well-being and the participation of public consumption in the social product is over 50%. So now we're going, we're moving away from this developed Europe, we want to reduce our participation in public spending below 50%. But this was a bit of a joke at first. The Serbian Renewal Movement must support the principles of the prime minister's and finance minister's exposé, if it is indeed a firm definition of the government to reduce the participation of public spending in the social product, if it is a firm commitment to the coherence of public income and public expenditure, and if it is a firm commitment to reduce tax burdens and to increase the effectiveness of action in the plan to combat the grey economy. I read somewhere that by now about 60% of the economy has managed to cover itself, and it's planned for 75% in the following year. As for the sources from which this country needs to collect public revenues, we are still going, although we have left the concept of socialist self-management, which was a unique experiment in the world and had as its integral part a special system of public income and expenditure, over so-called. common and general needs, which were met by self-government agreements, when it comes to shared needs, through those strong SIZs and social agreements, when it comes to general needs. However, we now invent taxes and special fees as something original in the world. In finance and in parallel financial law, there is no dilemma that unlike taxes, where a citizen gets so-called. the general equivalent, the tax is individual equivalent. In the case of a court fee, we pay a certain partial fee for the work of the court, in the case of administrative fees for the work of the administrative authority. However, the very fact that someone owns a thing has never been taxed in the world. These days I've been called on the phone by many citizens of Moravia County, from my Chačka, frightened peasants say, "We've heard that taxes will be introduced to cows as well," and a peasant at the market says to me, "Yes, Seselj will come and count me in the barn how many cows I have." So our Serbian peasant is about to find a hole in the law. In addition to the fact that I don't think taxes should be a source of income, I don't understand what "special fee" means, with which we charge crude oil, cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. It's actually a special sales tax, or excise tax, or Serbian excise duty, I don't know why you use the word excise. As for the Law on the Participation of Municipalities in Transport Tax, we need to see that the Republic Government wants to reduce participation in public spending at the expense of municipalities. It increased its budget by 35%, an increase in participation compared to last year's AP Vojvodina budget by 46.4%, although counterpart Vesenov rebelled, was probably not satisfied with this percentage, when he read that the AP of Kosovo and Metohija's budget was increasing by 292.2%. But, Mr. Vesenov, there's no threat to the state of Vojvodina, we don't have a Vojvodina Liberation Army there. You won't expect this tormented and tormented people to raise funds for these purposes. If we consider that there has been a redistribution of participation in the sales tax between the Federation and the Republic and that now the Federation belongs to 40, the Republic instead of 65%, belongs to 60%, and if we compare the table review of the percentage proposed by the Government to certain municipalities, we can see how much of the municipalities will be damaged. For example, the town of Cačak had a 18.6% stake under last year's law. The original government version was proposed for the Municipality of Cachak 14.5%. My colleague Starcevic and I submitted the amendment, where we asked for a change to 17%. However, I see that there was an increase of 15.2% in the regulated proposal. A few more words about the agrarian budget. I haven't met any peasants in Moravika County and in Cachak municipality, in the villages where I was moving, that he mentioned that he even knew about the Agrarian budget and that he had won and that he knew someone who had received funding from the Agricultural Budget. I can't argue that they're dividing on the party line, but I haven't heard that information from the farmers at any of the public meetings. But I heard some other data from farmers, who say, let's say, at the processing of one hectare of wheat, the cost of the seed is 150 marks, plowing 150 marks, preparing 200 marks, sowing 50 marks, 300 kg of fertilizer 200 marks, combining 150 marks. So the cost of production, not counting work, 900 marks. The yield is between 4 and 5 thousand pounds, times 1.10 German marks, so you get 5,500 dinars, if the stamp 8 is on the street, so the profit is 700 marks. So the cost, not counting the work, not counting everything, except for what I've stated, is saying it's a clean loss on the substance, or maybe it's considered a profit on straw, which remains a peasant, but it looks like it's too expensive to pay for straw. When it comes to livestock data, they gave me the same example of extended body weight, so they say it's... Yeah, Tomo, that's exactly what it's called-- an extended ton of bodies, to get a hero. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: "It is not said for the extended load of calves, but for the extended tov calves"). Well, that's what you learned at Philology College, since darkness is your dean. Production costs are in dinars of 7,400, excluding water, electricity, hay and labour, and profit is 1,000 marks, 500 kg times two marks, and 1,000 marks, as far as Tomo was, 8 thousand dinars. So you'd have got 600 dinars. (President: Time. ) So, there's nothing for a farmer to pay contributions from, there's nothing to pay taxes from, it's not made for market surpluses. It is produced to meet domestic needs, it is produced to preserve social peace, for citizens living in cities, who are on forced vacations, who receive or do not receive guaranteed earnings of 200 dinars. Time, please. ) In the end, I must say that I welcome the plan to start the work on the defense of Svrtcevo, because it is in the interest of the district from which I come, because five municipalities - Arile, Požega, Lucani, Čačak and Gornji Milanovac - are supplied from the Rzav system, and without investment in the dam, the system cannot be completed without the investment in the dam. However, from the position of multi-purpose water use, I see that 154,000 dinars are all foreseen. (President): Please, time. Just two more sentences. (President: You've overstepped one minute. ) I have been informed that there is a need to bring a special spatial plan of special purpose for the construction of this battery. We, MPs of the SPO, in principle support the budget. The state must have its resources, the state must function and see that to this extent the threat of the state would indeed not be an opportunised vote against the state, but we are against imposing these fines and these taxis and for normalising our relations with the Western states.... (President): Please, time. )......................................................................................................... Only the entry of foreign capital can help this country to stand on healthy feet, to begin to compare, to "live like the whole normal world" - which was the pre-election password of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1312	I'll count this time for you next time. There is a word from MP Bojan Kekic, to prepare MP Nikitovic Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1313	President-in-Office, distinguished members of the Government, respected MPs, in line with the public spending policy in 1999, which represents the continuity of the policy of this year, and among other things has the basis for harmonising the total public spending with the consolidated balance on the country's level, i.e. limiting the overall volume of public spending and reducing participation in the overall social product, the draft budget law, as the highest law passed by parliament, represents the continuity of our government's economic policy, based primarily on real sources, but also on the strength shown by the Government of the National Unity in respect of budgetary discipline. It is good that the budget is more favourable to treat the position of the current budget reserve and the permanent budget reserve for the reasons why the events in the spring and summer months have shown, above all the exceptional operationality, elasticity and responsibility of our government. We have no reason to doubt our government, given everything she's done in the past. When we talk about the Law on Community Participation, as my fellow MPs before me, and it should be noted that it is only one type of income, we, as municipal officials, cannot influence it, since participation in percentages does not mean as much as an annual amount of funds, because it is calculated exactly how much funds are required by certain parameters. What happened to refugees, certain cities that had power and managed to organize collective housing, they also received a certain fee, or increase. In other incomes, it should be said that the Government has allowed us to tax on personal incomes 5%, then property tax, inheritance tax and gifts, and now it defines that all assets in the jurisdiction of the Republic Property Directorate should be paid. In this way, they'll make us pay both part of the Republic's lease and we'll charge the rent for some of our businesses, which are primarily trade and catering companies. It should be said that in municipal budgets, while they are already being talked about, other local revenues should be charged in a work primarily related to residence tax, municipal administrative fees and other local incomes. With the attention of a good host, or as said in the Bill on the Action Fund, with the attention of a good expert, municipal budgets would surely be realized in the King or anywhere else. As part of the Republic's budget, the agricultural budget is so arranged that it directly affects the development of primary agriculture and rural development. The finance minister, as part of the introduction, explains who the contribution is and commits to allow almost all municipalities, which is in line with the positive legal rules, a 3% rate. The combination of these funds with the funds that are in the budget positions, certainly with those positive legal regulations that we passed in the previous session, which is that the municipal contribution is now being paid towards the residence, in the position of reviving the village and the agricultural land, must continue the continued drive of our Socialists to revive both our villages and our farming households. In the framework of the Bill on Funding and Implementation of the Social Programme, I would only look back at two things, which is that the legislator was primarily managed by the fact that whoever had, he should also pay for both the mobile phone and the weapons and it is about the practicality of the collection of these revenues. In essence, the payment of that income is made, given that it is done by registered means, both around weapons and mobile phones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1314	Since it's 5:00, we need to figure out how we're gonna keep working. There are suggestions to continue the work, to finish the 9th item of the agenda, and we'll do the rest tomorrow. Do you agree with such a proposal? Yeah. Do you want to vote? No, you don't. I thank you. There is a word from MP Milan Nikitovic to prepare MP Ljubisa Selic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as President of the So Užice and member of the SPO, I would like to express my disfavor with regard to the Law on the Participation of Municipalities and Cities in Transport. In fact, cities can also be eliminated, given that in some ways they have received the desired percentages they have sought. In fact, if we take and watch games of numbers and percent, the reduction as far as the municipality of Užica is concerned is only 2.7%. Namely, in the previous year, the pleasure municipality had a percentage of 22.4. This year, a percentage of 19.7% was proposed. It doesn't mean anything until he compares himself and finds out that the county budget is, I'm ashamed to say what it was, 25 million in the last year. This year it's up to 27 million. This means that it is practical to maintain the same percentage, a total reduction of 13.7%. What do I say we play with percentages in some way? Because this game can, if we apply math, be completely different. In fact, if we take the real value of the dinar from last year's down 60%, then the pleasure community should practically, according to last week's percentage, have 40 million. This way, as 27 million were won, the total drop is 47.7%. If she had stayed the same percentage, then she would have lost 29.9%. You see how beautiful and easy it is to play math. However, numbers and mathematics can always be abstraction. I'll try on an interesting case to show in practice what it looks like. Namely, SO Užice has already signed contracts for the reconstruction of a flat roof in a kindergarten in Užica. It's 700 squares. The roof leaks, inspections ban kindergartens, and that's not the result of the last two years, but it's a kindergarten that's over 30 years old. So, in order for that kindergarten to be rehabilitated, we took advantage of that possibility to upgrade it and put a normal roof. That investment is about two and a half million dinars. I have submitted an amendment to the Finance Committee, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, asking for the percentage to be retained. But other than the members of the SPO on the Committee, they had no understanding of it, and they blew the roof off of the kindergarten in Užica. This is just one banal example of everything that's going to happen in the municipality of Uzica, of course, if there's any change in price of anything. Perhaps schools will run out of heating and many other problems. I understand they'll say, with pleasure, that incompetent local government. I will accept it with a smile, but still people will know that incompetence, in this case, has been proven by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1316	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Ljubisa Selic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Tihomir Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, talk about the Republic of Serbia's budget at the moment, following a comprehensive report by the government, Mr. Marjanovic's exposé and many discussions, it is almost unnecessary. So I'm going to focus my discussion and my view of that budget from another angle. In 1997, 1998 and the 1999 proposal, Serbia's budget is moving realistically somewhere at about three billion marks a year. This is freely said to be the budget of one nation's poverty, one state in which, given that there are 10 million inhabitants, averages every citizen for his country's budget of about 300 marks. Looking at that, and it's not a big separation, but given that for our people it's a very large separation, then it can only be taken into account the degree of poverty this people have experienced over the past 10 years. That budget, for your attention, can be compared to the budget of the city of Dortmund in Germany, which is also three billion marks. So the city of Dortmund has no more than 400,000 inhabitants. There's more. If it's over, my colleague will fix it, I'll let you make a mistake. But anyway, the budget is three billion, a respected colleague, and the disseldorf budget, which is also a big German city, is 7.5 billion marks. Compared to ours, you have to accept that it's extremely much. I'd like to talk about the total budget from another angle. In fact, the revenue side of the budget makes it clear to all users that the budget is alluded to by the income tax of citizens, sales taxes and excise duties of almost 90%. The company profit tax is symbolic. Last year he was also symbolic. And this year in the draft budget, that tax does not exceed 3%. What's he saying? It is clear to all of us, saying that many of our businesses are in such a ownership relationship as we have today practically economically failed, and it is no longer possible to extract any income or any profit from them. So the state and government turned to what else they had, and these are the pockets of our citizens. In order for our businesses to be able to continue to collapse, we have declared ourselves to be the goal of transforming social property, or we will start to meet modern trends in Europe and the world. In that sense, we've formed the Ministry of Ownership Transformation, which, apart from receiving the salary, I don't see what else he's doing. Because a very symbolic number of social enterprises that have been privatized during the ministry's operation so far. Even the previous owner's transformation minister, Mr. Beko, went to the flag to try to sell it. He can't sell it, because no one in the world will buy the flag as technology. Everyone in the world will buy the market, and technology and production opportunities today have every country of the civilized world as much as they want. As for our policy, this home first of all, we in the SPO have long had a policy that without a fair and urgent transformation of social property we will not be able to move from the dead spot. And, that social property, as it is, is the object of the robbery of those people to whom it is available, which is, above all, the people who, regretfully, are in contact with the government, that is, with official authority. Likewise, dear gentlemen, without opening up to the world, we will not be able to solve our problems, except as a people we will become all social cases. As the next point I would insist on and at which this government and this parliament would have to insist, it is the fact that every policy in the civilized world determines economic interests. There is not a single country in the world that will sacrifice some political goals for the sake of its economic interests. Unfortunately, in this assembly, with a large majority of coalition votes, we have passed two laws that did not have any need to be passed at this time, even if they were passed at all, which are the Law on Informing and the Law on the University, which certainly cost us much more than it will give us little satisfaction to punish one of these journalists or one of these votes to shut down, or at one of our universities I set up my dean. So it's a typical example of how one country and one government, by wrong politics, destroy their economic goals and fail to achieve those results that objectively the economic resources of this people and this country can provide much more than we have today and than we had in 1989, when we still had a relatively decent standard. I hope that this government will provide this Parliament next year....... (Tomislav Nikolic: Don't criticize. ). Here, I don't want to criticize, who should I criticize? You? I don't need to criticize. (Tomislav Nikolic: But you will vote for the budget. It doesn't matter what I vote for the budget. I must vote for the budget, dear Tomo, for the simple reason that the budget is our responsibility to bring it. (Tomislav Nikolic: Maybe the government will fall. The government won't fall. There are plenty of you who will vote for that budget, and if we don't vote. I have to point out the problems that lead to one poor budget, and I hope I'm not denied by an expert on that, and you're no expert on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1318	I thank you, there is a word from MP Tihomir Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1319	I sincerely hope to do better than the previous speaker, from a fellow Serbian Renewal Movement. Why do I sincerely hope? This time I will not speak as a member of the political option, but as a member of my profession, that is, my trade, as an artist, as a cultural worker or as a member of the National Theatre. In addition to telling you that I am aware of the fact that it is difficult to share something that is not available, aware of the weight of the work done by the Republic government in the adoption of such a budget and aware of all the problems the government has faced at this time, when none of us, or any of us, or any of our spheres, are easy to deal with in any sector of our social life. It was really hard to do a job like this and generally agreeing with a budget like this let me draw attention to some things that, in my humble opinion, could have been done differently. As a first-year student, I learned from my teacher, he says - when you comment on someone's work first, find something good in that work, which will give you the right to criticise, or to make an objection. I said it was really hard to do this job, but let me single out, just point out something that so far, at least as I've been told by colleagues who have been doing this job for a long time, there's been no practice and I think it's a good way to go, which is a member of the 30th budget law, which says that budget users who make savings in spending the funds planned for material costs of more than 10% of a month's ideal 12th, that amount of savings can be used to stimulate employees' work. I think it's the ideal way and as far as I know, it's the first time in the budget law, and I think it should become a practice. Look why I said I'd do better. I said a little while ago as a cultural worker, as a member of the National Theatre, I couldn't help but notice, analyzing the budget, what happened with the Ministry of Culture, and I'm sorry Mr Simic didn't have it. Compared to last year's budget and budget this year, the budget was 314,238,000 last year, and 377 million this year. This seems to be an increase, however, in addition to this fact that the value of the dinars fell, according to counterpart Pejcic, 60%, comparing with the place, or the percentage of the ministry's division in last year's budget, it appears that the culture ministry in last year's budget amounted to 1.96% of the total budget. This year it's 1.75%, which is a reduction of 0.24%, which means the whole 10% less. I'm saying that maybe that's how it had to be, but it's just a simple thing to be comparatively easy to come by. In particular, it seems to me, it pains us that we are working in that area that the funds for implementing the Labour Act are significantly reduced in the area of culture, even in the current value of dinars, so it says - last year there were 61 million, and this year 49 million. So, a reduction of 12 million dinars, which is over 30%, and even if we consider that it's not real, that a realistic reduction is where and where larger, we're really wondering what's going to happen to institutions that are under the Act of Action of General Interest in the field of culture. Under the law of the institution are the Library of Serbia, the Archives of Serbia, the National Museum, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the National Theatre in Pristina, the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad, the Philharmonic, the Ansambl of the Kolo People's Games, the Ethnographic Museum, the History Museum of Serbia. I don't know how to explain it to my colleagues at the National Theatre and the institutions that I've listed, especially with the fact that we're going to be considering today, that our salaries are jumping by 400%. Then, another division, and I think it's split 31 and distracts my attention, which is the Institute of International, Scientific, Educational, Cultural and Technical Cooperation, which was projected in last year's budget with 14.222,000 dinars, and this year with 17 million and something. This is an apparent increase, however, taking into account that for international programmes only 8 million are planned, be sure for international programmes precisely from the sphere of scientific, educational, cultural and technical co-operation, be sure that it is a bridge of Serbia, or a bridge of young people with the world, and then really wonder where this is going? I propose, since I have deliberately avoided submitting amendments to this law, aware of the current political situation in parliament and aware that the amendments would not be adopted, I propose simply and appeal to the members of the government, especially the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Sports and Youth, to correct the position of these spheres which Serbia communicates somehow the easiest and most open in breaking up the blockade, practically in re-communication with the world. These spheres of our operation are the easiest, simplest and fastest bridge and somehow these are the things that even this congregation can reach consensus. So I appeal to the current budget reserve, in a certain way, to separate the funds for what I'm talking about, and I'm saying that from the current budget reserve, I see that it increased by 450% compared to last year's budget, where the budget reserve was 100 million, and this year it's close to 450 million. Be assured, I will tell you my impression, perhaps I am wrong, make sure that when I talk about the cultural area, our theatre performance, especially our national theatre, which is the concern of its founder, or the Republic Assembly, then our films have done more at the affirmation of Serbia and its return to the world of one Kusturica, one Dragojevic or Goran Pascaljevic, that they have done more in the field of sport our volleyball players, water polos and basketball players than all of us together, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and others.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1320	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a finance minister, Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1321	I'm really in the morning talking long and now I'm going to try to answer as soon as possible about what's said, because some things need to be answered, and if you don't answer it, it's going to be understood that that's the way it is, and yet things are different. First of all, what I have to say is, it's personal to me, like the man who worked on these materials, the satisfaction of the support we got, on this proposal. In general, the general public spending policy proposed by the government has been positively assessed here and I do not see any of the MPs talking about the exaggeration of the plans for the public spending of the Republic, as part of the basic policy principles proposed. It is a very important fact, which obliges the government to implement this policy with full determination, which is important for achieving the objectives of economic policy. In the context of what's been said whether we have a poor budget, I think the defetist approach to this situation doesn't lead forward, they can only drag us back. We have a real policy that we think that through public spending policy and reducing it, we need to give the economy to part of the funds that will remain in the account, and I said that this is over two billion due to a reduction in participation, trying to improve its position in market principles and contribute to the development of a 7% social product. Also, we're not here to elaborate -- what if the rate of growth of the social product is not 7%, but we're looking for a solution to make the social product rate greater than 7%. This budget should not be supported for patriotic reasons, but should be supported because it establishes a policy that addresses the problems and obligations of the state in the vital areas of its functioning. First of all, these are programmes in the fields of these social activities, which create conditions for work and development, because the budget is practically directed to that side. the social programmes of the Republic, which are made up of objections that it does not exist, that the Assembly should adopt it and so on, I must inform Members who do not know it, the social programme of the Republic has been established on the basis of laws which have established the obligations of the Republic to specific social functions. As regards the pension fund, it is the Law of Fundamental Pension Insurance and it has defined the task of the Republic in a work called compulsory pension payment and the obligation to provide money. With regard to the unemployed, there is an appropriate law, as regards childcare, there is also a law. The government is tasked with forming a programme and how to implement the obligations of the law and it is an act of the Government that will be brought forward, so that this observation, that we do not know why we should provide money for the special social programme of the Republic does not stand, because it has been established in this assembly as a legal obligation, and these are not optional obligations and some problems that the Government invents to be popular and express its concern for the social programme. It is not popular to take these taxes, taxes and fees to serve the obligations of the Serbian state. I have to say it. We have and we had a longer solution, especially so this wouldn't be used as political marketing. The consumption of the municipality, which is a balance sheet and whose participation is most amended, because everyone is seeking greater participation, and if the Republic did not tax on the traffic of municipalities, it would have one 5 billion more in its account to serve social programs and that there are no taxis that are concerned here as a major problem. And that local self-government thinks about how it will fill its income and service its obligations in its area. I do not believe that such a proposal would have passed here, because right here there is quite a big push for all MPs to increase the participation of municipalities in sales tax, as a source of financing for municipalities. The republic must withdraw these additional funds, as simply tax instruments and a mechanism at the moment does not allow this to be resolved on the burden of all Serbian citizens, which is through sales taxes. And there is a simple solution, to increase the general rate of sales taxes and to collect 5 billion dinars from these sources. That's what they'd pay for, you know, when you cut a general rate for everyone, the poorest categories of the population, because the goods they spend are the most massive. It is mostly food and other things, and it turns out that they will finance the social programme of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that we have an old fleet, but it is also true that only in one year over 100,000 new cars entered the Republic of Serbia, I think, old ones - new ones, so to speak, and that significant funds have been provided for it, and through the amendments we have accepted that part of the tax liability to be reduced to 30%, relatively age cars in that scale of 6 years which are recognised as tax relief. It is an extorted policy that binds itself to the manifestation of good, which is the basis for that social justice in the burden to be prescribed. It's the same fact about a cell phone, and I wouldn't bother about it. One more thing about the position of Vojvodina and, let me say, general political evaluations, who was it taken from? First, I have to say that the incorrect fact is that developed countries in the world do not have a so-called regional development policy. Countries entering European integration also have a regional development policy and funds that encourage it. At the moment of Greece's entry into the European Union, the relationship between it and the Netherlands was 1-8. A series of measures has been implemented, the social programme and the necessary policy of equal regional development, thereby fostering and developing the unity of the market. The Republic of Serbia has its own spatial plan, has an interest in integration and economic integration, develops the entire economy evenly. In this part, a significant instrument of such a policy is the Regional Development Fund, with which the budget of the Republic of Serbia provides certain resources and which should be in the function of the promotion of production, which should be elociated and sought to move towards less developed areas, to train a balanced area of the Republic and economic potentials and as future taxpayers to make the budget richer and thus also social programmes that the Republic will implement. In the end, I wouldn't owe you any more, but only two facts. About who received how much money compared to a percentage stake. Believe me, the easiest situation for me as someone who worked on those proposals was to repaint a picture of last year's budget and at a proportional rate of growth, everyone gets more development for as much as expected. However, the government's budget policy is guided by spending priorities and circumstances which are an argument of these priorities and which they create. The important thing is that we in the areas did not run out of increases, which were mentioned here, and that they did not get an increase that was the average increase in the Republic's budget, this is the result of the government's policy. I wouldn't argue whether it's a little or a lot of money for culture, I know that education and science policy is a collection of municipal resources, and absolute public spending priority. That's what I told you in the opening statement. They have a percentage of the largest growth compared to these budgets. Culture has a 20% growth, but we plan to make inflation at the level of 6.6 to 7% next year, and that can ensure real growth of funds. What position in culture will be spent, it is a programme that the Ministry will establish and go before the government, so that part of these issues, how to provide this institution or that institution or that cultural event, is a priority that will be identified in the Ministry and be at the government itself. The second thing is the position of the current budget reserve. Please, we think that since the budget is still a plan, an annual plan, that this plan, at this point, is reserved for unforeseen expenditures of 2-3% of the budget, is a minimum condition, and the government's tasks are that these unforeseen expenditures and the need to strengthen some of the positions that time shows are undervalued, which is the instrument that the government needs to have to carry out its commitment. Here, I'd like as soon as I can, so I don't owe any more.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1322	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a joint principle search. The National Assembly will vote individually on all draft laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out in principle, search in particular and vote in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999. You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from the People's MPs Dobrivoj Budimirovic, Neboja Lekovic, Bojana Ristic, Mr Zivanko Radovanchev and Mr Tihomir Marjanovic. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which has adopted the bill in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. You've heard the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. As the principled review of this bill was carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia in principle, as well as on the exposé of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to work on the quorum's determination. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic's exhibition and the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia in principle. For 166, against two, abstentions four, did not vote 6. A total of 178 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly accepted the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic and the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Mr Tihomir Marjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Tihomir Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the Finance Committee, I failed to convince the Committee members of the correctness of my claim. Since there's a good part of the council president here, I'd like you to listen to what this is all about. You know that the 1999 Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia proposed to replace the amount of 98m400,000. I suggest replacing it with last year's amount of 101 million and 500 thousand dinars. It's the extra funds that go to the municipalities. Given that the global budget has increased 34%, it would have the basis to keep this extra part that goes to municipalities, that is, if it can't be increased then to stay at last year's level, because ladies and gentlemen know that we also have large obligations in municipalities and how the whole state functions depends and how municipalities function. The municipalities are those that affect the functioning of the entire Republic. So I would ask you to vote in favour of this amendment, because it is in the interest of the citizens of our municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1324	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 25, against 144 abstentions, there were no four votes, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 28, against 146 abstentions, there were no three votes, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of Part 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP gives up his amendment. On Article 7 of Part 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 25, against 155, there are no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 184 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, paragraph 6, the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 23, there are no 147 abstentions, no 7. A total of 177 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 8, a new position of 73a, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1325	Dear President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I will explain all amendments to Article 8. Draft budget law for 1999. As a SPO MP from Leskovec and Jablanic County, I have proposed four amendments, whose adoption of the Serbian and government parliaments would do much for the district I come from. The amendments I proposed to the 1999 draft budget law provide for funding in certain ministries for the construction of the water system "Barje", the sanitary dump in Leskovac, for the restoration of the only monasteries in Jablanička County, St. Bogorodica and St. John, and for the completion of the Sports Centre "Health", i.e. the completion of the famous wooden pools, which have been built for more than 20 years. It is well known to all of us that there is not enough money in Serbia, that there is not enough money for all municipalities, that all of them are cubes, that everyone has a lot of problems. In this case, however, it should be borne in mind that Leskovac is the largest municipality in Serbia after the towns of Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, that Leskovac, more specifically the Jablani County, has the lowest salary in Serbia and that the Leskovac municipality itself has no money to finish these capital facilities and, above all, the water system "Barje" and sanitary dumps. The Republic's help is necessary. The municipalities of Jablani County have been neglected for a very long time in every respect, so I insist that the work on the water system "Barje", the swimming pools, begin construction of the sanitary dump, and I especially stress the need to help the Yasun monastery, because next year the Holy Mother monastery records 500 years of its existence. I expect all political parties from Jablanic County and all representatives of the government of Serbia, primarily SRS Deputy Minister Slavisa Mladenovic, Deputy Minister for Youth and Sports, Deputy Minister for Trade from the SPS Milan Stamenkovic and other representatives of the Jablani County to support these amendments to get what all other cities in Serbia already have. If the Assembly does not accept these amendments, which I expect, given that the Government has not accepted them, I expect the Government of Serbia to provide funding from some other funds, from funds, from the Water Fund, from the Development Fund, and from some other sources, for the completion of these capital facilities and for the restoration of the Holy Virgin monastery. This was a comment on the amendments to Article 8, which referred to Leskovac and these capital facilities for the Jablan County. The second group of amendments, which I would like to comment here, are amendments to the 1999 draft budget law, which also provides for an increase in funds in some of the jobs of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Family Care. What I have proposed for these amendments is an increase in the funds for the payment of child, mother and social supplements, as well as an increase in the state's pension and disability insurance and martial-intergovernmental protection obligations. The government is budgeting for 12 payments to children's, maternal and social supplements. However, the government does not mention its lagging commitments to millions of Serbian citizens, who receive children, maternal and social supplements, or receive martial and disability supplements. Serbia's government must find the funds and recover all the backlogs and pensions, and these debts must not be postponed. This last group of proposed amendments, which I mentioned, would provide funds for the payment of 18 lagging social supplements in 1999. This would reduce the government's delays and debts towards budget users, and the government should assume its obligation to settle all debts towards children's, maternal and social supplements by mid-2000. The government would also have to find a way to settle its debts to pensioners by mid-1999. Also, the Serbian government must find a way to significantly increase the amounts of child, maternal and social supplements, which are offensively small. The SPO asks the Serbian government, if necessary, to rebalance the budget in order to pay off social benefits to our poorest citizens. Serbia has many unfortunate people and we must try to at least ease their misfortune. We will ease it by respecting and implementing laws on the basis of which children's and maternal supplements are received, material aid, care allowance and assistance from another person. And only then, when he settles his obligations to the citizens can the state charge bills for electricity, telephone and various taxes. Why am I saying this right now - because I'm talking to a large number of citizens with mentioned problems. For example, he addressed me with a letter from Milosavljevic Bogoljub, from Busilovac to Paracino, a difficult patient, who is 15 months late for an allowance for other people's care and help. Here's the letter, I got it at the address of the Serbian Parliament. Although the state has failed to fulfil its obligations, it has been cut off by electricity because it did not meet the obligation to power the Paracins. And how can Milosavljević Godoljub reconcile his obligations to the public enterprise, if he does not receive in time the pension and assistance that follows him, that is, these mentioned social supplements. Serbia's government, again, must find a way to pay off social benefits that are more than a year late. For the mentioned social benefits and pensions, the means should be provided, of course, from real sources and above all by the recovery of the economy. However, our country's recovery does not exist without reconciliation with the world, without foreign capital and without changing our country's political and economic system. The introduction of new taxis and taxes is not a solution, as it will only make Serbian citizens poorer. Finally, I would like to point out that I have proposed the amendments mentioned because the SPO is very concerned about how everyone lives, especially the poorest and oldest citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1326	Thank you. He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1327	As regards this discussion and the amendment that we have not accepted, I still feel obliged to say the following - regarding Leskovec and Jablani County, first, what the MP is asking for, is in the budget, and this is in the divisions of the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture, as the main, since, to inform citizens if they do not know, the Republic has signed a contract and participates in the financing of this capital facility, as the interest of the state, which the MP has even stated in his amendment. Of course, this capital investment will be contained from the agriculture ministry's division, within the framework of the programme that the Ministry of Agriculture will make for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the interest of the Republic as a whole and cares about what is called the health of the people and the creation of conditions for the development of these areas of the Republic. As for the hall or sports centre, it is located in the section of the Ministry of Sports, and to inform MPs that, in addition to this facility financed by one part of the Republic's funds, there are 38 other facilities in the Republic, which are funded by the Ministry of Sports, which are meant to serve as a place for young people to deal with sports activities and are mainly facilities related to schools or educational institutions, where they are partly funded by the Ministry of Education, to the extent that it can separate some of the funds for the completion of these facilities, so that it is not necessary for these reasons. The third thing is the question of helping to adapt this sacral facility, this church, within the section of the Ministry of Faith, there are approved funds of 6 million dinars, which are designed to function repairs of such objects, and the thing is that in the Ministry of Faith, it is done and running the programme, and they will make priorities, what they will enter into, it will be decided by the Government through the proposal of the Minister and Ministry. It's about the Jablani County and that's why we don't accept it, not because we're deaf and blind, and we won't, we have a certain relationship with a particular area. The second thing, which is running here, concerns the funding for the social programme. If I wasn't clear enough, obviously I didn't get the exposure right, I don't get it. The main problem of public spending is how to find a solution to the reduction of public cake, as a obligation, to leave the economy more space, and secondly, that the main effort of the overall public spending policy is directed to provide the maximum possible amount of funding for the social programme of the Republic. In addition to these legal taxes, which are contained in the budget, in addition to the contributions introduced, we also have this social programme law, which contains this initiative, which is now being restarted, after what we have delivered, to speed up the payment of children's supplements, to create conditions for pensioners to pay their pensions more neatly, and that conditions that this should be put in line with all other priorities. I can still suggest only one more variant to speed it up, which is, say, that the tax for Belgrade in the next 6 months is directed into the social programme, that Belgrade give up additional fees, or that another source of the municipality or local self-government, which is called the tax burden, 5% of Serbia's personal income is directed into local incomes. It's going to be a binding part of the sales tax. We have the participation of the municipalities. If that's all we have to finance, there is a solution, but we're not in favour of such a solution, because we know the responsibility that local self-government carries in creating working conditions and people's lives, and that's making spending priorities as much as possible. We have said that we will strengthen these social funds to the maximum possible extent, even unpopular measures, that we have proposed here and against which MPs are trying to put amendments and that, I say, puts out a different view. But beyond that, the measure of things doesn't exist, because if we were to repay all the debts we owe, we would have to have the participation of public consumption in the social product at the level of the total social product. That kind of policy can't be run by the government this year. But what it has to lead is that this social function and the obligation of the state is maximumly settled neatly and that the orderly nature of the reconciliation of obligations is the first priority of the government's public spending policy. In such a context, we do not accept these proposals and did not support the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1328	Thank you. There's no replica. [[National Ambassador Bojana Ristic reporting for replica.]] You can report after the next amendment. You spoke, you explained ten minutes. Excuse me, please. I ask the Members to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 23, against 154 abstentions, no one voted 5, 182 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 8, 17, Position 108, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask Members to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 158, the abstentioned no one voted three, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 8, 17, Position 109, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask Members to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 24, against 152 abstentions, no one voted 5, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 8, 17, heading 110, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask Members to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 29, against 157 abstentions, no one voted tro, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic to article 8, section 17. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1329	I want to speak to Mr. Minister and tell him that this amendment once again wanted to make it worth it instead of 12, 18 children's supplements and make up for the difference, because children's allowances for 1997 are now being received. That was my intention when I proposed this amendment. As far as I know, and you said that in the exposé, based on the draft law on providing funds for the implementation of the social programme, 6 billion revenues will be made. Why it is not possible to focus part of these funds on the compensation of the child's leftovers and all those social supplements. You know what, you tell us every year that regular child benefits, pensions, maternal supplements, care, material supplements will be paid, and they're always late. Here, you're now receiving a child's allowance for 1997. Please, these are the most endangered layers of the population, the poorest citizens of this country, and please accept this proposal and let's do everything. You will find a way to do so if you do not accept this amendment because it is proposed by the MEP. So find some way to pay off the child and social benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1330	Thank you. I ask the Members to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 31, against 156 abstentions, no one voted three, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, Section 20, positions 138 and 139, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Dobrivoja Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1331	Dear MPs, I've had three amendments. The government accepted one, of one I gave up, and I think it's correct that the government now accepts this amendment, to be 1:1. Namely, what it's about. This is about student and student standard. The government allowed home accommodation half a year ago. They are 513 dinars, which the government has been participating. For sleep, with students 159 dinars, with students of 447 dinars. We have now, in this year, received 53,555 students who are on a diet, we have 20,144 students at a accommodation and we have 11,854 students in dorms. This is just math, there was probably some mistake. The price hasn't changed in half a year, half a year these assets are in circulation. It hasn't increased at all. Indeed, these 80 million, as much as it takes to increase, would solve the issue. When we enrolled students and increased numbers of higher schools and homes, no one asked the Assembly, the government decided. That's why I'm asking the government now to really help these young people and to accept it, because it's about those children we've received, which we've enrolled, they're here at home. It can be taken from the reserve and helped those children to live the way we promised them when they were enrolled. Since I've rated your budget at five minus, if you adopt this, I'll give you a clean five.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1332	He has the word Borislav Milacic, the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1333	I'm still asking that we stay on the drawback, since we accepted Bing's proposal and the community's involvement was increased, but we couldn't accept it in the context of this thing. She has been partially accepted. What was she partially accepted in? In public spending policy, we increased public spending by 34%. We're counting on inflation to be 0.5% a month. This provided a real increase in funds for this purpose. We view it as a total annual position. You're making a balance in general. What will be the element of participation and other measures that the government will take, as other specific measures can be helped, both through fuel and food, within some compensations. We do not have the space to increase the budgetary position in this part, because it is actually increased in the level of growth of the budget and thus is a policy of consumption that is supported, as far as the budget is concerned. We can take the obligation to take special care of this and help with other measures to address this issue, which is not addressed by adequate participations that probably students should bear in proportion to this rise in costs that exist. But there are other mechanisms for the government. We assume as a working conclusion that this issue is resolved, but not on the burden of increasing the position. It remains as the final measure of the current budget reserve. The government can make a decision, but don't touch it, it's too important to keep that position, to keep the overall public spending control in the Republic, so that at the beginning of the financial year, it will be fed. If we can't understand each other, I mean with a working conclusion like this, you can back us up and give up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1334	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1335	On Article 8, section 22, position 156, the amendment was submitted by the MP Mr Zivko Radovanchev. MP Zivko Radovanchev gives up the amendment. On Article 8, division 23, a new position of 163a, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 32, against 160, no one abstained, no three voted, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, division 24, a new position of 171a, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have briefly explained all these amendments to the draft budget law. But there's something else I need to explain to you. The swimming pools in Leskovac have been built for more than 20 years. Five times, citizens say they are giving self-dependence funds, and they are constantly raising self- contribution funds to build the kind of Shkodra on Bojana, for more than 20 years. According to the notice I received from the Executive Board of SO Leskovac and the Public Enterprise of the Building Land and Roads Directorate, on 15 September 1998, the completion of swimming pool work required funding of 22.5 million dinars. It is estimated that the work will be completed by 1 June 1999 and that, counting on inflation, it will take 30 million dinars to complete the pool. Under the proposed amendment, the government of the Republic of Serbia should take part in funding works of half the necessary funds. The second half of the funding would be provided by SO Leskovac from self-increasing and budget. I remind the government again that Leskovac has 165 thousand inhabitants and that it is a shame that one such big city has no place to freshen up the summers. Our rivers are polluted. We don't have any pools, and the example works in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia we had a pool when no one in Serbia had. With this amendment, I'm not asking for anything other cities the size of Leskovci already have. Again, I would like to expect all the political parties from the Jablanic district, election unit 25 Leskovac, and all the representatives of Leskovec and the Jablanic district in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to do everything possible to help Leskovac solve this problem. The citizens of Jablanic County and Leskovec will closely monitor how the MPs from our region will vote and draw a conclusion for the future and they will know that next time they will vote unless the MPs from Jablanic County and Leskovec support what is required for Leskovac and Jablani County (in the castle hall). Since you're so impatient, here, I'll end up with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1337	I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 29, against 151, no one abstained, no 5 voted, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, division 26, new position 178a, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 28, against 156, no one abstained, no voted 5, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, paragraph 41, position 230, the amendment was submitted by MP Mr Tihomir Marjanovic, who withdrew the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 154, no one was abstentioned, no voted 5, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bojana Ristic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 152, no one was abstentioned, no voted 5, a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1338	Mr. President, the commitment to this amendment from me is primarily as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee. Namely, what's this about? In Article 28, my amendment adds - except for the revenues from the court fees. What does that mean? By law on court fees, 90% of the funds collected go to the Ministry of Justice. However, the budget law says that all the money collected from court fees goes to a unique passing account at the finance ministry. The law here is contradictory. This pledge should be seen as an advocate to improve the material position of judicial employees. In fact, what's the point of this? When the money is deposited in the Ministry of Finance's passing account, until he returns to the Justice Department, just half that money disappears. Whether the government is putting out any other fires, social or not, but please what belongs to the Justice Department should be given to the Justice Department. I ask the Minister of Finance, if he responds to this amendment, to make it a little bit more understandable, since we really don't understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1339	He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1340	So, the request of this member of the budget is that these other revenues, which do not enter the budget account, be previously paid to one of the Republic's transitional accounts, and then directed to that user, which is the Ministry of Justice. It's a passing account, it's not rerouting those funds. It is true that money is temporarily kept in that account and it is true that we can temporarily resolve other obligations of the Republic by temporary retention of these couples, which is a problem in the Ministry of Justice, probably as a situation, but it is part of a common public spending policy and setting priorities. What we need to know is, there's not a single penny that went into the Ministry's account that doesn't know where he went. It's also one of the facts that needs to be known and cannot be said - you don't know where the money went. For all the money that goes into state accounts, you know where they went.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1341	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 151, two abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. For 177, two, three abstentions, no votes, eight, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the 1999 budget of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision on the BUDGET OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COSTS AND METOCHY FOR 1999. YOU have received a proposal for a decision, which was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Finance Committee proposing to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision and report of the Legislative Committee, which adopted the proposal for this decision. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft decision on the Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Region's 1999 budget. For 184, against three, no one was abstentioned, no one voted three, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision on the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija's 1999 budget. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON USE OF THE AGRANT BUDGET'S FUNDS You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in principle. For 177, against two, no one was abstentioned, no voted 8. A total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I put the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in general. For 175, against 6, three abstentions, did not vote 8, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on the use of the Agrarian budget. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Security Law to implement the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic, Stanko Starcevic, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Health and Family. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting the draft law on the provision of funds to finance the Social Programme of the Government of Serbia in 1999 in principle. For 168, against the 9 abstentions, there were no four votes, and a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1342	President, let me make it easy for you. Our first amendment refers to the suspension of the motor vehicle registration fee, so New Democracy is asking for this tax to be abolished to make life easier for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1343	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 29, against 160, the abstentions did not vote six, and a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. I'm asking the government representative to say it, but be kind enough for us all to hear it, to get into the stenogram. The government doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 32, against 158 abstentions, one did not vote four, and a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 10, point 1, subpoints 1) and 2), the amendment was submitted by Tomislav Nikolic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to make a statement about this aamdman. Sustained. Having also adopted the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. Sustained. Since the Legislative Committee has also adopted this amendment, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 14th amendment were submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. Sustained. Legally possible. I'm asking the government's representative to say so. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1344	Mr. President, this little before the amendment, since the government doesn't know what it's all about, was to cancel the motorcycle tax. This one now is to lift the fee on hunting weapons, guns and the rest. The reason is that it's very expensive and the people won't have to pay, and the second is that it's going to pose quite a threat and drastically reduce production in the Kragujevac weapons factory. The team will increase the problem of the gunmen, and you already know what the problems are, because the capacities are limited both by the Dayton and the Paris Peace Agreement, so that the interest of the people in the purchase of guns, hunting weapons will be dwindled even further by the production of the dedicated factory in Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1345	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1346	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seriously thinking about domestic producers from responsible people, who are helping and promoting this production in every way possible, the government has accepted an amendment that I have tried to help the weapons factory, but not by deprive it of income for the social fund, but by separating the amount of fees based on holding and carrying weapons. There was a mistake here, and that's why I came out to explain it. I suggested that a special fee for holding arms be 300 dinars, and for carrying arms of 1,200 dinars. Someone knocked out 30 dinars and 30 dinars appeared in yesterday's material, and today the Committee finally found a mistake and notified the MPs. So whoever wants to buy a gun and keep it at home will cost an extra 300 dinars, and whoever wants to carry a weapon on the street, whoever doesn't believe there's a state that can protect him and whoever's going to shoot him, because I don't see any other reason for a man carrying a weapon, except that he's going to have to shoot, he's going to have to pay for it, if he gets a license for it, 1,200 dinars. That way, there will be no threat of weapons production at our only factory manufacturer in Kragujevac. At the same time, I thank all those who have accepted the amendment that the lowest category of vehicle from 1,100 cubic metres is raised to 1,150 cubic metres and that is the production program of the car factory in Kragujevac, so that it will be available to customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1347	Thank you. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 158, four abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government and the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. The Financial Committee indicated in its report of 7 December 1998 the need to correct the amendment by replacing the number "30,00" with the number "300,00". This amendment was agreed by the applicant for the amendment and by a representative of the Government. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Stanko Starcevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Please inform the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment (legally possible) Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Stanko Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1348	Dear President, MPs, I come from Cacca, and I can speak very competently about this article and the amendment, given that I am president of the Hunting Association, which counts about 800 members. I am sure that behind this amendment are armies of hunters and a professional and professional organisation called the Hunting Union of Serbia. I'm asking to be released from the obligation of an officer. 15th in the proposal and only to be released from the shooting organization. Hunting associations are organizations that work and survive under the Hunting Law. So all I'm asking is that they charge on a hunting rifle, one, with smooth pipes, so-called. Shotgun, release members of hunting associations. Anything else, those who own a hunting rifle and are not members of the association, will pay taxes and those who have more guns with smooth tubes will pay taxes on each of the next guns. The fact that 80% of the members of the hunting associations have only one famous shotgun rifle, and we all know it's a layer that barely bought that rifle, and members of the hunting association pay a membership fee that's very high, on average, up to 500 dinars. I think it's a really big imposition to introduce a tax on one of the hunting rifles. There remains a fee on hunting carbines, on combined rifles, except for one hunting rifle owned by a hunter, a member of the association. I'm not asking you to cancel a global tax on hunting rifles. And I'll look back on this -- onion tax. What does that mean? There's no bow without an arrow. Or, who in this country can get a license for an automatic rifle or a semi-automatic? It's absurd. The point of the amendment is that, specifically and clearly -- only for members of hunting associations that have one rifle. All those who have more, and members are let pay for it more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1349	I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 36, against 151 abstentions, 11 MPs did not vote, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, Tax on mobile phone, the amendment was submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1350	Your Honor, the point of the amendment is to lift the mobile phone tax. What could be the essence of this member of the law -- if a mobile phone tax is introduced today, a fixed phone tax will be introduced tomorrow, which will really burden the budgets and it doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1351	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1352	Since the debate is being held under this bill, I would like to draw attention to one speaker who in principle did not read the amendment that I have submitted and whose trophy weapon was free of charge. On the other hand, you need to understand, gentlemen, that the purpose of this law is to provide funds for social purposes. The purpose of this law is not to provide special privileges to special categories of citizens. Don't insist on helping you free individuals who have more than normal citizens of these obligations right now, because we have a lot of those who don't even have a minimum. This is a redistribution towards the economic strength of the citizens. So don't get too busy with all of us who carry cell phones. That's the luxury of the moment. Maybe in 3-4 years, we'll all have cell phones and then it won't be a luxury, and maybe this tax will be good enough to stay then. So if the reasons for the amendment are trying to influence the government's position, believe that today you won't be able to change our opinion, because we stand firm behind this attitude, those who have more should think about those whose real budget revenues cannot provide a decent life. There is no blame for either of you MPs in the Serbian Parliament or the government. There's a backlog. You know that many companies, yesterday the finance minister said so, avoid paying their commitments, invent ways to pay minimum remuneration to workers, of which nothing goes into the funds and the budget of Serbia. The government must find a way to meet the social needs of entire categories of citizens, and this year it will insist, regardless of the individual resistance it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1353	Thank you. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 28, against 160, two were abstentions, not 11 votes, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment were submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Zarko Jokanovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment concerns the determination of one obligation. Of course, no one has anything against social giving, and I believe that in the hall I share the opinion of the largest number of colleagues that the funds must be provided and that they must be adequately, regularly and with all backlogs paid out pensions and child benefits and all debts to those who fall within the most vulnerable categories of population in this country. I am touched by the words that those who have more should give because of those who have little or almost no bread to eat and I hope that those words will guide us at the next item of the agenda, when we increase our functional wages by several hundred times. Irregularity in the O.R. That's right, several hundred percent, you have the right to laugh, but I don't think it's a laugh for the citizens of this country, who listen to this, are watching, who are going to live in it. I would like to say that we have proposed an amendment, which, in Article 22 behind the words "social policy", means that the funds achieved under the provisions of this law are directed towards the enforcement of the laws and obligations laid down in the social security, social and children's protection areas, as well as for other purposes in the field of social policy established by the social programme of the Republic of Serbia. The finance minister just said that the social programme is actually obligations stemming from pension laws, child benefits, which are legal obligations, it's not the government's social programme. We encourage and ask the government to propose a social programme, which will be adopted by the Republika Srpska Assembly. Every organized, every serious country has a social program. This social programme would determine the type, scope, dynamics and priorities in achieving certain rights and obligations in the field of social security, social and children's protection. counterpart Bojana Ristic has submitted an amendment to find a way to pay for the child's leftover allowances, has not passed, and perhaps we could do so with this very social programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1355	Please, just one thing, Mr. Jokanovic - Mr. Jokanovic, please don't use the pay phone to say inappropriate things. You told a lie that went public. I ask you, after the law comes, to come and apologize, because it is not true what you said, that several hundred times the wages are increased.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1356	I'm sorry, it's a few hundred percent, I made a lapus, I admit I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1357	No, no, please, you said it a few hundred times.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1358	I said, but it's a lapus, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1359	Here, I can accept, Mr. Jokanovic, to ease the part of the burden you're talking about, and to fill in the Fund by returning the apartment you received from the Serbian government, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1360	I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the corresponding key (end of vote). For 32, against 158, no one abstained, no four voted, a total of 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zarko Jokanovic, Nebojsa Lekovic and Tihomir Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units (we have quorum). I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 164, no one abstained, no voted 6, a total of 196 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the provision of funds to implement the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, as a whole. For 164 against three, 26 abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the provision of funds to implement the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Proposal for a Regulation on the participation of blades and cities in the transport tax in 1999 YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Aleksandar Milutinović, Dobrivoje Budimirović, Veroljub Stevanović, Prof. Dr. Zvonimir Budic, Nebojsa Leković, Milan Miković, Dr. Svetozar Gavrilović, Dr. Nikola Jovanovic, Dr. Stevan Vrbski, Mr. Živanko Radovan, Mr. Bojana Ristic, Mr. Tihomir Marjanović, Zoran Jovanovic and Stanko Starcevic, Ramadan Ameti, Milan Nikitović, Miluca Zivkov and the Finance Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the MPs of the People Joseph Kasa and Mihalj Secei, as well as Dragomir Radovanovic, gave up the amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999 in principle. For 181, against six abstentions, five were not voted by three, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Government and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Government and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dr Svetozar Gavrilovic and Milan Mikovic to point B, point 114. Given that the amendment of the Committee on Finance to Article 2, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, includes a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MPs whether they wish to vote on their amendments or to accept the amendment of the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1361	It is that the Finance Committee has the advantage. We've given the amendments. The Finance Committee has integrated these amendments entirely into its amendment, which was made after our amendments. The government has agreed to these amendments. Therefore, our amendments have been adopted, and as the Finance Committee has joined, we have no objection.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1362	Thank you. On Article 2, point B, point 123, the amendment was submitted by MP Mr Tihomir Marjanovic. Given that the amendment of the Committee on Finance to Article 2, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, includes a solution proposed by this amendment, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendment or to accept the amendment of the Finance Committee. There's a word from MP Tihomir Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we from the SPO are working hard and we are trying to make quality solutions, and that's why I went out for a pay phone, because it's in the citizens' interest. This is where the citizens of Požeg municipality are considered to be superior. I want to explain this amendment. In addition to this, there has been some improvement by the government, based on a reduction in the rate from 18.33% to 14.64% of Požega municipalities losing revenue from turnover taxes of around 1 million and 200 000 dinars, and the budget of the municipality is 19 million and 700 thousand dinars. These are for a smaller municipality, such as Pozega, large funds. The most recent amendments to the Excise and Sales Tax Act, Article 27, have been regulated to pay an importer, i.e. an oil producer, the sales tax on motor gas products, diesel and lignite. This means that municipalities will be denied in 1999 for part of the sales tax that has been paid so far in the purchase of gas at gas stations in the municipality. The municipality of Požega has four petrol stations: two Yugoslavs, one Beopetrolova and one private. These included significant transport of gasoline and sales taxes at a corresponding percentage of our municipality. These are significant funds for the municipality, which will no longer be in the Pozeg municipality's budget. I believe that this part of the funds should be compensated to Požega municipality by increasing the rate of participation in sales tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1364	Mr. Marjanović, did you accept the amendment? No, I don't. We're going to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 155, two abstentions, four were not voted, 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2, point B of subpoint 134 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dobrivoja Budimirovic. He's giving up. ) The related amendments to Article 2, point B, point 120 and point B, point 99, were submitted by MP Miluca Zivkov. He's giving up. ) The related amendments to Article 2 of point B of point 124 and Article 3 of point B of point 102 were submitted by the MP Ramadan Ameti. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Finance Committee? He doesn't want to vote. ) The amendments to Article 2, point A, point 1 and point A, sub-point 1, sub-point 1, were submitted by MP Aleksandar Milutinovic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Committee on Finance. Acceptance. ) The related amendments to Article 2, point A, point 2 and point A, were submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Committee on Finance. Acceptance. ) The related amendments to Article 2, point A, point 2 and point A, point 2 of the Annex, were submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Financial Committee? There's a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1365	I just want to thank you for accepting this first amendment of mine. I'm going to give up the second amendment, because there's a difference, like, 7,000 dinars, so I'm giving up on the second amendment. And this is a big deal for Kragujevac. I want to thank everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1366	So we shouldn't vote on amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1367	If you've accepted, don't.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1368	It's accepted. The amendments to Article 2, point A, sub-point 3 and point A, sub-point 3, sub-point 3, were submitted by the MP, Prof. Zvonimir Budic, to each other. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Financial Committee? I'm asking the MP if he wants to vote or not. No, I don't. ) The related amendments to Article 2, point A, point 4 and point A, were submitted by the MP, Dr Stevan Vrbaki, to point 4 of Article 3 of point A. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Financial Committee? I'm asking the MP if he wants to vote on his amendments. (The Ambassador is not present) If the MP is not present at the session, then we must vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 23, against 156, the two abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Article 2, point B, point 21 and Article 3, point B, point 21, were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Financial Committee? I ask the MP if he wants to vote on his amendments or accepts the amendments of the Finance Committee? There's a word from MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1369	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that the MPs of the SPS and the SRS of Leskovec and the other municipalities of the Jablani County did not support my amendments to the 1999 budget that Leskovac was supposed to solve some of his problems. I expect it to happen again now and that MPs from our region do not again support my amendments, which require more money for certain municipalities. I'll talk about all 10 amendments, so I don't go out for a pay phone 10 times. The changes I proposed to these amendments are, in fact, the extension of the 1998 situation, i.e. the retention of the same percentages of the participation of municipalities in sales tax in 1999, as was the case in 1998, for Leskovac, Vlasotince, Lebane, Major and Black Trevo, while for Medvedje the maximum percentage was retained, so of course I did not ask for any changes. Amendments to the 1999 Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax have been submitted because the municipality of Jablani County is the poorest in Serbia, with the lowest average wage and in order to stop the collapse of this part of Serbia, it is necessary to maintain at least last year's percentage of the participation of certain municipalities of the Jablani County in sales tax in 1999. I will also quote you specifically: For the Bojnik municipality, a reduction from 83% to 60.2%, for the Vlasotinca municipality from 65% to 35.7%, for the Lebanese municipality from 95% to 85%, for the Leskovac municipality from 136.6% to 32.3%, for the municipality of Crna Trava from 95% to 93% and proportionally that means less money to be collected on the basis of sales tax in 1999. If anyone needs proof of what I'm talking about, that the municipalities I listed are the poorest in Serbia, here is the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 43, December 3rd, 1998. There is data on the movement of average monthly net earnings in the municipality's economy, i.e. cities paid in October 1998. You can look at older numbers, the situation is the same. So the Lebanese municipality is one of the last municipalities on the payroll. It's similar to the Vlasotin, it's similar to Leskovec, it's similar to the Major. So there's a reason why I was looking for this. The government has accepted some minor increases in certain municipalities to one percent. That's not acceptable to me. I'm asking to keep the percentages we had for Leskovac, the Vlasotins, the Lebanese, the Major, the Black Grass. So, the percentages we had last year, to prevent the further collapse of this end of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1370	Please state if you would like us to vote on all 10 of your amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1371	To vote.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1372	I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 142, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 b of point 34 and to Article 3, point B, point 33, were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become part of the draft law, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP to vote on its amendments or to accept the amendment of the Financial Committee? I'm asking the MP if he wants to vote on his amendments. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 151, no one abstained, no three voted, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. But these amendments have, however, become an integral part of the bill's proposal through a resolution of the Finance Committee. The amendments to Article 2, point B, sub-point 58 and point B, point 50, were submitted by the MP Mr Živanko Radovanchev. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3 which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP if he wants to vote on its amendments? He won't, he accepts. ) The related amendments to Article 2, point B, point 87 and point B, point 72, were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which became an integral part of the bill's proposal, included a solution proposed by these amendments, and since MP Bojana Ristic asked to vote on them, I ask the MPs to put their cards in the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 31, against 148, one abstention, did not vote 7, a total of 187 were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments interrelated to Article 2 of point B of sub-paragraph 89 and to Article 3 of point B of point 73 were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which became an integral part of the bill's proposal, included a solution proposed by these amendments, and since MP Bojana Ristic asked to be voted on by MEPs to put their cards in MPs. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 26, against 151, one abstention, did not vote 7, a total of 185 were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Article 2, point B, point 155, point B, point 130, were submitted by the MP Dr Nikola Jovanovic. Given that amendments to the Committee on Finance Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, I am asking the MP if he wants his amendments to the vote or if a solution is accepted? Acceptance. ) The related amendments to Article 2, point B, point 162 and point B, point 136, were submitted by MP Bojana Ristic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, include a solution proposed by these amendments, and since MP Bojana Ristic wishes to vote on them, I ask the MPs to place their cards in the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 28, against 155, one abstention, no 5 vote, 189 in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendments to Article 2, point B, point 164 and point B, point 138, were submitted by MPs Zoran Jovanovic and Stanko Starcevic. Given that the amendments of the Committee on Finance to Articles 2 and 3, which have become an integral part of the bill's proposal, are also covered by a solution proposed by these amendments, am I asking the MP to vote on it? There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1373	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, the original version of the proposal for this law for the Municipality of Cachak is projected to participate 14.5% in the sales tax. Last year, and this year, the percentage was 18.6%. This percentage is applied to a percentage of 60%, so there was a double reduction, as the Federation's participation in sales tax was increased, for known reasons, and in the reduced participation of the Republic of the municipalities, Čačak participated with a reduced percentage compared to this year, which was 18.6%. The Finance Committee proposed an amendment to Cachak and instead of the original percentage of 14.5 proposed 15.2%. Me and my colleague Starcevic suggested that it be 17%. So we were modest, and we didn't ask that our percentage of 18.6 be reduced, given the government's definition of reducing public spending. That is why we remain on the proposal for this amendment and we point out that Cacak is not formally a city, but it is practically a city and we are a little affected by the municipalities when we see this regulated table of the Government, or the Finance Committee. The cities from the original version received a significant increase, and the municipalities very little, not to say symbolically. The Municipality of Cačak, with about 130,000 inhabitants, and the town of Cačak with about 80,000 inhabitants, plans very important budgets this year to achieve those functions that the municipality has under the law and I don't think this project will be sufficient and that is why we remain in this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1374	Thank you. Since the MP wishes to vote on amendments, I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 28, against 152, one abstention, did not vote 6, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3, point B., sub-point 135 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikitovic. Given that the amendment of the Committee on Finance to Article 2, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, also covers a solution proposed by this amendment, I am asking the MP if he wants to vote on his amendment? He wants to. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 29, against 152, one abstention, not voting 8, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Zivanko Radovanchev was submitted to the Fourth Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment. Sustained. ) After this statement by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Milutinovic, Veroljub Stevanovic, Prof. Dr. Zvonimir Budic and Dr. Nikola Jovanovic. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendments. Does anyone want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in transport tax. Article 4 of that law states: "Part of the renting income, i.e. on the use of immovableity in the state property of the municipality and the city of Belgrade, in institutions and other organisations, whose founder of municipalities - the city, or the city of Belgrade, uses according to the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic, belongs to the Republic at the level of depreciation calculated at minimum rates." So it's clear what it says in this article, but it's not clear how that member got into this law. In the light of the proposed law, it states that the legal basis for the adoption of this law, contained in the Law on the Security of Municipalitys and Cities and the "Official Messengers of the Republic of Serbia" is No. 28/94. Article 6(2) of that Law provides that the participation of municipalities, i.e. cities in the revenues referred to in point 6 of Article 1 of the Law, is to be determined by a special law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax. Thus, Article 4, this member of the proposed law asking to be deleted, treats the renting income, i.e. from the use of immovable property in the state property used by the authorities and organisations of the municipality, the city of Belgrade, this member is directly contrary to Article 6. The law on the provision of funds of municipalities and cities defines incomes that are limited and the lease has income treatment and is located outside the limits. I think the restriction is quite correct and I'm asking the ministers or someone from the government to say whether I'm right on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1376	Thank you. He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1377	At the last session of the Assembly, we adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Public Revenue, where we have just foreseen the right of the Republic to achieve some of the income from the lease of business space. It is then also reasoned that the change in the obligation of the Republic as the holder of the right of the owner of the property is to take care of the reproduction of the property at its disposal. With this law and this proposal, we also define the level of the material obligation that municipalities have, that part of the proceeds made from the lease in the amount of the bill and the depreciation rates are paid into a special account, so that these assets do not go into the consumption of municipalities, means that the assets are converted into consumption, rather than returned to the account of the property director of the Republic of Serbia, in order to reproduce the property, not to go into consumption. I think we need to make that commitment happen, and that is why I suggest that these amendments not be accepted, but that the solution we have proposed remains.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1378	Thank you. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote, submitted in the same text. For 32, against 156 abstentions, there were no three votes, and a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Does anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in tax traffic in 1999 as a whole. For 169 against eight abstentions, nine were not voted eight, and 194 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1999. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Special Rights and Obligations of Selected Persons You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Zeta Jovanovic, Slavoljub Vujovic, Jovan Djordjevic, Zoran Jovanovic and Life of Cvetkovic, as well as amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MPs Dragam M. Nikolic and Milic Dimitrijevic withdrew the amendments they submitted to the bill, and MP Miloja Mihajlovic withdrew his amendments at the meeting of the Administrative Committee. You have received reports from the Administrative and Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the opinion was singled out by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) He has the word of a proposing representative, Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1379	The President-in-Office, the President-in-Office and MPs, following the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, have certain rights, obligations and responsibilities of employees in state bodies, have been regulated by the Special Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities, including certain issues of the President of the Republic and certain rights, obligations and responsibilities and members of the Government, i.e. persons elected by the National Assembly. In the part in which this law, therefore, the Law on Labour in State Authorities, does not regulate the rights of obligations and responsibilities of these persons, the relevant federal and republican laws on working relations are applied. In the current practice of this law, it has been observed that certain issues, when it comes to directly elected persons, such as the President of the Republic and the MPs or persons elected by the National Assembly, are not regulated and are not covered by legislation or are not properly regulated. This also conditioned the need to adopt an appropriate regulation that would regulate this matter. In this respect, 20 MPs from the four largest parliamentary parties present in this House have submitted an initiative to pass an appropriate law that would regulate these issues for the sake of this initiative, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has laid down a bill that today, with amendments on which there have been talks in the words of the President of the Assembly, lies before you. I must stress that it is high state functions where the rights and obligations of the Republic based on the Constitution and the law and which have exceptional complexity and require a higher level of responsibility and obligations than other employees, where the position of the President of the Republic, MPs and persons elected by the National Assembly is at stake. Their position undoubtedly differs significantly from those of other persons, who otherwise exercise rights and obligations under the rules applicable in the national authorities. For this reason, it was also necessary to establish their rights, obligations, and responsibilities, and that is why we have this law before us today. It should be said that the persons representing the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly and the Government, both internationally and internally, and in order to ensure the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, it was necessary to provide and establish appropriate rights by law. Also, when it comes to persons elected in this assembly, and in order to preserve constitutionality and legality, it was necessary to provide appropriate preconditions for those persons to be very responsible for their functions, and it was for judges, prosecutors and their deputies to be able to perform in a better way. The rights of other countries and used in working on this law were also consulted when adopting and laying down the proposal for this law. It is necessary to say that the adoption of this law also creates an obligation to regulate and regulate the issues, rights and obligations of the other persons, i.e. the relevant law. employees of state authorities and such a regulation is already in preparation. In particular, with great satisfaction, as minister of justice, I must say that this law covers the most numerous group to which this law applies, namely the judges and public prosecutors, who are significantly improving the material position, which, with other ways of improving the conditions of work - such as accommodation, technical, choice of legal holders, and we still lacked this segment of improvement of the material position - will certainly affect the withdrawal of the reputation and responsibility of judges, which again, products and the obligation to carry out their work tasks, tasks entrusted with the Constitution and the law, perform even more secure, more effectively and legally than ever. The entry into force of this law will cease to apply in certain segments in those issues regulated by this law, the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities and the Law on the Receipts of People's MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As you could see in the law and these amendments which have been established, issues related to the rights of the President of the Republic, the rights of MPs and elected persons and specific rights of the President of the Republic and the President of the Assembly have been regulated in certain chapters following the termination of office. I think it's a law we've long missed and it's necessary to pass, because these areas have been unregulated so far, and otherwise they're known in the world as a substance that's regulated by law, and I think we're getting closer to the world and to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1380	Does the MP Nebojsa Lekovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? He's not here. Do any of the MPs want a word? He has the word Zoran Kostadinović, so Aleksandar Jotric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a People's MP, I submitted it to the President of the Assembly on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Articles 132 and 157. Rules of Procedure, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments. First, I would ask the president to put this proposal on the agenda for the next session of the assembly. I didn't want him to go through an emergency procedure, but it's very important for what Mr. Minister said to arrange things in the Serbian Parliament. It is true that people in responsible functions need protection both materially and in other ways. Nobody slows it down. This is extremely important, and it will contribute to a number of judges and officials of the Assembly to be less susceptible to corruption and other earthly weaknesses. However, this can very much change as a law, i.e. certain people before running for MPs would force them to leave certain places that would provide them with certain privileges by entering the Assembly. I would like to read you an explanation to see how much this is related to this law - particularly to the elders of state bodies, the president or the secretary of the municipality, the city or republican assembly, the director of public or state-owned enterprises, the director or executive of government agencies, as well as the main and responsible editors of public information houses in Serbia, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, as well as members of the Management Board appointed and appointed by the Government." A man who, for example, is in the position of a large firm and becomes Prime Minister or President of the Assembly, can provide for his firm a privileged position and thus come up with huge funds and that he does not care at all about the absolute assembly salary and security. The moment we set it up, and that was even in the time of the Kingdom of Serbia, it was arranged that people running for congregation functions had to leave certain positions, we would get double effects. The people who came to the Assembly would become professionals, depend on the assembly's belongings and would not be able to weigh down the companies that are losers, but would represent only their own interest and the interest of the citizens who chose them.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1382	There's a word from MP Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the MPs who signed the initiative that the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose a law on special rights and obligations for elected persons. We wanted the rights and obligations of all, regardless of what function it was, to regulate the law so that citizens would be fully familiar with them and there would be nothing that would give rise to speculation about an extraordinary or secret position of the bearers of the highest functions. We have managed to ensure that judges, prosecutors and MPs are better paid so that citizens have the full right to ask all of them for special responsibility, in particular a pledge, to fully commit themselves to performing these responsible functions. The salaries of our judges and prosecutors were more than miserable, and also the receipts of MPs far lag behind the receipts of MPs, e.g. Bulgaria, Romania or Macedonia without listing countries that are richer and more developed than ours. The MP must devote himself to performing his duties, not only while he is in this home, while he is in the Assembly, but he must keep in constant contact with the voters, be familiar with their problems and that the citizens' proposals are presented in this assembly and that he is fighting for them. The increased incomes of judges and prosecutors, which is the main objective of this law, also provides greater independence for them to perform a responsible state function. In short, we want to restore dignity to our judiciary. However, the draft law in many ways gave way to these intentions, so provisions were proposed on the life wages of Members, ministers and others, which caused public disfavor, as well as us MPs. We are pleased, however, that all these provisions on lifelong incomes and life rights have been expelled, except when it comes to the role of the President of the State, or the Republic, which is understandable, because such provisions exist in the laws of all democratic states in the world. The receiving of one, two or three people cannot endanger the state's budget and we believe that it is more obtained by respecting the dignity of the president's office than it would be by not recognising the dignity of that same function. Of course, everything in line with the real possibilities of the people and the state. The government, in its explanation of the law on special rights and obligations of elected persons, points out that the solutions under this law are literally prescribed by the laws of the countries which are members of the European Union, by being paid in those countries, and by MPs, and by ministers, and by judges, at least 10 times greater than is foreseen for the holders of functions in our country. It is true that they are 10 times bigger, but in these countries at least 10 times the salary of other citizens, as well as the incomes of peasants, are then at the same level as social contributions. That is why our goal must be to move Serbia through decisive, rooted, internal democratic reforms, so that our country becomes a member of the European Union as soon as possible and to raise the standard of living of our citizens to the level of citizens living in the Member States of the European Union as soon as possible. At the same time, my party, the SPO, is asking that our country put into its basic regulations, and not just this one, so to put in place provisions that will balance our regulations with the regulations in force in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, the SPO believes it is necessary that we also receive European information law and the same law on the university. We also need European laws on the free market, on competition, a law that will allow us to have non-ideological justice, military and police. We also need European laws on agriculture, therefore, laws to protect villages and peasants. I think we need such laws to stimulate the best students, students, young scientists. Such regulations, we consider in the SPO, should regulate and fight crime, as well as provide all necessary assistance to the poorest categories of citizens, therefore, with the same rules. Such laws will be advocated by the SPO and our parliamentary group, as we aim at a new, democratic, rich and strong Serbia. And one more thing, when it comes to Members' salaries, we have decided to put a criminal provision into the law. Namely, if the MP does not include himself in the performance of his post, unless he is committed to the needs of the citizens and the state, he is immediately deprived of his parliamentary mandate, without the right to receive any salary after the removal of the parliamentary term. These criminal measures were not adopted either for prosecutors, nor for judges, but only for MPs, and I am glad that an agreement has been reached with the Prime Minister to apply the same measures to ministers. Because a minister who doesn't do what he has to do will be replaced and will be without the right to receive a salary at least one minute after the resolution. This may be too strict, but it's also a warning to the MPs, and to the ministers, to fight maximum for the people and for the state. Not only are there no life wages, as some newspapers rushed to report, but there are no salaries, unless MPs and ministers are doing as citizens ask. And it's a good thing that's the case, the order and responsibility in Serbia has to be, and it has to start at the top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1384	There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1385	Dear People's MPs, I think there is one law before us that could potentially be very politically dangerous. It is a law that is very easy to see in public as an attempt to corrupt the entire Assembly, as the law it is trying to do, and surely you will do so, since the convincing majority, I suppose, will vote for this law, which will suddenly, overnight, raise salaries to all MPs by three, maybe even four times, and where the total salary can easily exceed and even be about 12, 13, 14 times higher than the average salary today in our economy. I think this law is inappropriate to our economic situation. Of course it's good to raise the salary to all our prosecutors, the judges, because our judiciary is in a very difficult position. However, our judiciary will not be less corrupt because it will receive higher salaries tomorrow, because our judiciary has already been corrupt by politicising and bringing to leading prosecutorial and judicial functions people who are more or less members of leading political organisations. As for the President of the Republic, President of the Government, President of the Assembly, I do not believe that the people will be pleased that, after half the term of office, the President of the Republic will be able to count on life support with three maids, one driver, one administrative servant, a slightly smaller Prime Minister, or the President of the Assembly. I think, given the extremely difficult situation in the country, a large number of poor people, where many welcome the morning with a desire to branch out the sun, to warm up the apartment, because they have no electricity to pay for heating, for coal, for wood, that this version of the law will cause even greater mistrust in the people towards this congregation and that this assembly will become less and less folk and more unnatural.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1386	Thank you. There's a word from MP Milena Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1387	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, with all due respect to the reasons of the legislator of this law, I cannot help but express my dissent with its adoption. In fact, I find it extremely untasteful to adopt this law at the moment when both our national and existential survival is at stake. We know how our education, our health care, which I know very well, because my narrow and extended family is a doctoral one. How young and others live, I don't even talk to pensioners. That's why I suggest that this law not be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1388	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? He's not answering. He's got the word Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1389	I'm sorry to have to answer for a word like this. I think what Ambassador Veselinov said is a shame, a disgrace to him personally, first of all, not to mention those he may have thought of. Such ugly and casual reviews of people who do a very difficult and very responsible job and so far for very little money, which means they do it with love, because they love this country, they don't deserve such grades. You have to say the name of the person you mean, if that's what you're talking about. Judges aren't corrupt and judges aren't working on political surveillance. The judges are working according to the Constitution and the law and no different. If you know of a case, there is a procedure for such situations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1390	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1391	Mr. Minister, you have a problem with your ears. I never said the judges were corrupt, and you'll find that here, with our stenodactylographers. I just said that high wages, which are predicted, cannot prevent the corruption of the judiciary, because our judges have long been politically corrupt. Secondly, there's no reason for you to say that it's embarrassing to estimate that at this point, if, according to this proposal, MPs have a salary plus a flat rate and they can come up with a figure of 14 to 15 thousand dinars a month, then it's 15 times more. (Doljub Jankovic: I am talking about judges, not MPs. Well, there are MPs in this law. I didn't throw it at you while you were talking. It's not as good as you're acting. I made the arguments, you come out with the arguments. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1392	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 165, against 12, abstentions 13, 5 were not voted, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Article 6(2) of the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 22, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 33, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted to Article 36 and Article 37 of the amendment. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 36th in essence, the same amendment was divided by MP Zoran Nikolic and MPs of Life Jota Jovanovic, Slavoljub Vujovic and Jovan Djordjevic. The amendment of the MPs of the People's Parliaments, Žota Jovanovic, Slavoljub Vujović and Jovan Djordjevic, reads: In article 36, after the words "people's MPs" are deleted: "in constant work". The government has submitted its amendment to this article, proposing to delete this member and the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Management Board has not accepted these amendments, for formal reasons. Do the MPs feel it is too high to vote on their amendment? (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: It is too high to vote on them. ) The Government has submitted Amendment VII to Article 36 concerning Article 38. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted amendment 8 to Article 37 concerning Article 39. It's a bill of law. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Zoran Jovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. He's giving up. ) The Government has submitted amendment 9 to Article 39 relating to Article 41. It's a bill of law. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 41, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People's Republic of Life, Cvetkovic. I ask the Government's representative and the Management Board's informers to plead on this amendment? They accept. ) Since the Government and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Proposal to add a new member after Article 41. The government has tabled amendment 10 proposing that a new member be added after article 39. However, starting with the content and reasoning of the amendment, a new member proposed by the government should be added after Article 41. It's a bill of law. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 43rd amendment was submitted by the MP of the People's Republic of Life, Cvetkovic. I ask the Government's representative and the Management Board's informers to plead on this amendment? They accept. ) Since the Government and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted amendment 11 to Article 43 relating to Article 44. It's a bill of law. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law on special rights and obligations of elected persons in general. For 164, against 13, abstentioned 11, 5 were not voted, 193 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on special rights and obligations of elected persons. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular, by pointing out the need for the legislator to comply. 27, 28 and 29. Proposal for a law with the proposed solutions in Article 6. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements, which provides that fines, for a natural or responsible person, may be prescribed at the most in the amount of 10,000 new dinars. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, which adopted the draft law in principle and submitted its amendments to the article. 27, 28 and 29. Proposal for a law, which shall bring those members in line with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements, in the manner stated by the Legislative Committee. The amendments were adopted by the proposing representative at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? There is a word from Jorvanka Tabakovic, the minister of ownership transformation in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1393	I'm taking the opportunity to give you a few notes about the law you'll be making tonight. The law on its own transformation regulates the process of transforming state and social capital in enterprises and other forms of organisation that have state and social capital. Article 24 of that law provides that actions that have not been sold in the first and second rounds of property transformation, within the framework of the property transformation entity itself, are to be taken by an action fund educated in accordance with the law. In Article 27. The law on its own transformation is prescribed to place the action fund on the market through a public call, i.e. through the financial stock market, unsold actions in the second round, as well as actions transferred to the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. The action fund also puts into circulation and listed actions that have given up registers of actions. Therefore, in order to implement the second phase of property transformation, which is carried out outside the property transformation entity, it is necessary to establish and edit the Republic of Serbia's action fund. The funds for its establishment and start of work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, according to the same session, the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 1999 budget, the funds for this purpose could not have been pre-balanced. A budget reserve from which funds will be provided for this purpose, if adopted, is used in such cases. In particular, I would like to highlight the solution set out in Article 8, where, in addition to the operations set out by the Action Fund by the Basic Law on its own transformation, it is proposed to establish the right to also exercise the right to action under privileged conditions, to take action based on enrolment and discount actions and for employees of enterprises and other private property entities. According to the Law on its own transformation, this right in the first and second circles is only for persons working in the social and public sectors, as well as for certain categories of farmers. However, by way of a solution to Article 8 of this Act, it is proposed that the right to take action under privileged conditions may be granted to all persons who have worked or worked in all legal persons regardless of the form of property. The conditions are the same as in the Law on their own transformation, that they regularly paid all taxes and contributions. The action fund will carry out tasks in accordance with the programme adopted by the Governing Board with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the interests of property transformation entities, as well as the interests of shareholders. The specificity and importance of the activities to be carried out by the Fund requires a higher standard of attention, the attention of a good expert. The action fund has defined resources for its business. It is proposed that the Fund be financed from the cost and commission of the Fund for the Development of the Republic Labour Markets and the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. These are the users of the funds from the sale of the actions taken, so it is logical to charge the costs of them. These same funds are also users of dividends based on the actions taken. The amount of costs and fees will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which does not put the transit institution in a position of an exclusive budget consumer, but also enables it to support itself. However, the annual accounts of the action fund are subject to review, and its work and business are subject to supervision by the Ministry, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The law we are proposing to establish an action fund of the Republic of Serbia, which practically surrounds legal regulations in its own transformation. In doing so, I would like to stress that institutions and records must serve the transformation process rather than vice versa. I think it is also appropriate to say here that the record of actions prescribed by the Law to Article 16, I mean the basic Act on its own transformation, is run by the Capital Value Assessment Directorate, which is part of the Ministry and which is fully qualified to carry out external control of the rights, records and control of the privatisation process. This opens up the possibility of developing records in accordance with the needs, but also the possibility of trusting these businesses, institutions or other organisations that are technically and staffed to carry out these tasks. It's thought, first of all, of the Department of Accounting and Payment. This way of records will allow the construction of a central depot when the privatisation process is massive and when it provides income from which it will be able to finance it. Until the construction of the central depot and regulation of the legislation at the federal level on stock exchanges, investment funds that this process will speed up, we are left with to pass the Act on the Republic of Serbia Action Fund, which will allow all those who wish to enter and see their chance in ownership restructuring among all others to do so. Well, here, let's do it today.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1394	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund in principle. For 153, one, with three abstentions, was not voted by one, a total of 158 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the bill on the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a proposing representative at the meeting of the Finance Committee, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a proposing representative at the meeting of the Finance Committee, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a proposing representative at the meeting of the Finance Committee, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund, in general. For 156, against two, two abstentions, two were not voted, 162 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes a bill on the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the arms and ammunition laws, you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) He has the word of Interior Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1395	Dear President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before joining the decision, I would like to make a few notes to explain this law, and given that firearms are one of the most important things a citizen has and the most dangerous things for safety, I would ask you to pay some attention to such important matters. The current law, which came into force in 1992, aimed at curbing illegal possession of weapons and ammunition, preventing weapons and ammunition abuses in legal possession, controlling traffic, transport, repairing and retrieval of weapons and ammunition, and ensuring effective take-up of criminal and criminal persecution. While significant results have been achieved in the past six years through the application of this law, especially in the repression of illegal possession of weapons and ammunition and the prevention of weapons and ammunition abuse in legal possession, the amendments we propose are necessary. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia in legal possession have 1,081,828 pieces of firearms, including weapons of shooting organisations. The citizens own 474,984 guns, 36,109 guns, 1,900 small-caliber guns and 402 small-caliber guns, excluding hunting and sports weapons. Since 1992, when the Arms and Ammunition Act entered into force, 46,200 criminal acts under Article 33 have been carried out by 31 October of this year. The arms law, i.e. unauthorized procurement, holding, carrying, making, exchange and sale of firearms, ammunition and explosives, is an average of about 7,000 crimes. 54,489 pieces of different firearms, 953,074 pieces of bullets were found and taken away, meaning a million, 1,392 explosive devices and 824 kilograms of explosives. During the period of validity of the Arms and Ammunition Act, i.e. since 1992, 12,561 crimes have been committed, 976 murders, 1,1993 attempted murders, 669 serious bodily injuries, 349 serious acts of robbery and robbery. Out of the total number of crimes committed in this way, about 85% were made with weapons in illegal possessions. There are numerous cases of irregular and unprofessional handling of firearms, resulting in frequent injuries, while one face count is equally deprived of life. From 1996 to November this year, 24 people were killed, and serious physical injuries were sustained by 26 and 19 were mild. To present statistics, except by illustrating an increasing degree of social danger that causes the use and use of firearms, can also support the view that only in arming citizens should not seek the key to their safety. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Arms and Ammunition also constitute an attempt to regulate in an appropriate way the culture of safe holding of firearms of those citizens who legally possess it and to sanction in an appropriate and more effective manner any use of weapons. Based on previous experiences in the application of the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, the need to specify individual solutions in the Law, which would create legal assumptions for a higher level of personal and property security for citizens in this area. This primarily refers to the separation of the regimes from the regime, i.e. the conditions of arms and ammunition. Without touching the rights of citizens who hold guns and revolvers so far, and in the future in the same rights of other citizens, this proposal provides solutions to which, above all, it will make it impossible to carry a gun and a gun, in addition to the conditions laid down in the current article of the 8th century 1 and 2 of the new provisions of the Law to provide specific, stricter conditions for the authorisation of carrying those guns and guns that make up firearms. This basic idea of the promoter was to predicate the concept of firearms made up of guns, guns, rifles and other devices from air weapons, which is not the case now, since the regime under which the authorisation for carrying, or exclusively to guns and guns, which make firearms, as the most dangerous security, which citizens can now legally obtain and hold. For these reasons, the provisions of Article 1 shall apply. The bill provides a new and more comprehensive definition of weapons. For other types of weapons, a strict ban has been proposed on carrying outside the intended premises - shooting sites, hunting sites and the like. Comparing the legal analysis of the arms and ammunition regulations of several European states and America, which the Institute of Comparative Law has done as a basis for working on these amendments to the Law, it can be concluded that in most of these countries, the arms holding regime is clearly separated from the regime of its application. Of course, the conditions for holding arms are much lighter and smaller - than the conditions for carrying weapons. As regards the conditions for carrying arms, there are also significant differences between the countries analysed. According to the complexity of the conditions and the width of the discretionary law of the competent authority, when comparing the standards relating to the authorisation of carrying arms, the different regimes of obtaining this authorisation can be classified as liberal, moderately restrictive and restrictive. But most countries resort to a medium solution, allowing the carrying of firearms only to a limited number of citizens, which should meet additional conditions in relation to the conditions required for holding the weapon. This means that in this group of countries too, a regime of holding and carrying firearms is separated. Any person who fulfils additional conditions for carrying firearms shall be issued a special document proving that right. In all these countries, the discretionary right to grant such an instrument is expressed to be denied to certain persons when the competent authority assesses that the approval of the carrying of firearms would endanger general security. It can be said that we have defined ourselves as a moderate-restrictive regime in terms of these solutions. In view of the already existing and new legal solutions for obtaining an armed list that will apply only to the holding of arms in the future, the conditions laid down are similar to those contained in the applicable Article 8. - Weapons law, and of course now with the addition of mandatory firearms handling training and the possibility of a medical examination. In order to obtain permission to carry arms, in addition to meeting the conditions for holding firearms, it is also necessary to establish the existence of an extremely justified reason for the protection of the applicant's personal safety. This permit is valid for five years and will be able to extend for the next five years, as long as there is a particular reason to protect the personal security of the person to whom it has been issued. In the bill, all that is incorporated, a very discreet right to decide, and especially for legitimate reasons for carrying a weapon for personal safety, in order to ensure that the number of citizens authorised to carry firearms is reduced to a lesser extent. Similar solutions, which include the country's very discretionary right, also know all foreign legislation that represents a separate regime of holding arms. At the same time, the bill also regulates the regime for the safe transfer of arms, whose carry is not allowed. In fact, this weapon could only be extremely transmitted in case of a change in residence, residence, address of the whereabouts of gun holders, repairs and repairs of weapons, death of gun holders, as well as in other justified cases, but without ammunition or decommissioned or otherwise disabled for immediate use. Within the framework of the conditions for the issue of licences and for the holding of arms, it has been assessed as a comprehensive solution to which practical training and knowledge-checking will be carried out, i.e. the ability of the person requesting the issue of the gun list to hold and use the weapons for which the request has been made. The practice so far has shown that the most difficult form of crime, the unauthorized procurement and holding, the carrying, making, exchange and sale of firearms, ammunition and, as it is within the law, refers to the provision of Articles 2 and 3 of the law in force and should be established in such a way that the fuller and more precise terms of the circumstances that are relevant for the identification of the serious forms of this crime are established. In this regard, without tightening the penalties so far, the subject of the most serious and serious form of this crime is more precisely determined. In this way, it provides for the unification of the views of court practice because the proposed formulations removed the dilemma about the meaning of a larger amount of weapons or weapons of great destructive power, which has been a practical issue so far. There were difficulties in determining, qualified these crimes, and they often served as a source for the conduct of inappropriately mild criminal policies because of illegal possession of firearms. Finally, the legalisation of weapons, which has been made possible by the transitional provisions of the proposal of this law, is intended to provide for a number of owners who own or acquire weapons after legalisation for which there is no formal proof of origin within 60 days to legalise the possession of weapons, which would ensure further endangerment of the gaps between the effective and legal situation in this area. Under these provisions, the handover procedures for which the procurement, holding and carrying of weapons are prohibited are prescribed, so that citizens who, by their own decision, hand over weapons to a designated authority are not liable for their unauthorized holding and carrying, which is particularly important for the southern part of our Republic, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The legalisation and handover of weapons provided for in these provisions should also constitute a kind of preparation for the uncompromising and effective persecution of remaining illegal weapons owners, following the expiry of the deadlines for carrying out the legalisation of weapons. Starting with a solution which, for the abovementioned reasons for guns and guns, makes up firearms, separates the holding regime from the arms-bearing regimes, a transitional solution has been proposed towards which the gun-holding and carrying of guns and guns, which have been issued until the date of entry into force of this law, will be valid until the end of 2000, as an instrument proving the right to hold that weapon. Citizens who already have a gun list will not have to submit evidence of training to handle firearms. With all these solutions proposed by this bill in mind, the government believes their consistent application will contribute to a greater level of personal and property security for citizens and security of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1396	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic:
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that the idea of New Democracy, even after four years, has been accepted and has been translated into legal solutions that this assembly will adopt. On September 28, 1994, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms and Ammunitions, where all this stands in the government's proposal and proposed by the New Democracy parliamentary group, and in some cases a little sharper. The question remains, why have you waited four years? What have we lost over the past four years, and what have we been able to save in the past four years, by needless waste of time to adopt such an important legal project? We received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 24 October 1995, a year after that proposal, a year after our proposal was made in the procedure, informing us that the regulation of weapons and ammunition matter is in the jurisdiction of the federal state, not the Republic, and that we need to give up the proposal in order to regulate all this by the federal law on arms and ammunition that is in preparation. So the question remains, what about the federal law that was then in preparation, is it going to be brought in and is this matter in the jurisdiction of the Republic? That's the answer we received from the Republic government in October 1995. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group then proposed mandatory medical assurance...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1398	I didn't hear. You got a problem? Please, I don't hear what I don't need. Please, let the MP finish, there's not much time, just 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1399	I'll wait, I'll expand in five minutes, I'll wait another three minutes. Don't, I'll let the minister know you're throwing it away. At that time, the New Democracy parliamentary group proposed mandatory confirmation for the handling of firearms, hunting weapons and any other types of weapons. At that time, we proposed a complete ban on carrying weapons in public places, primarily at public gatherings, sports and other events, events and all public events where more people are gathered, except for those who perform security tasks in accordance with the law. We also asked for a drastic tightening of the fines for carrying weapons, etc. We've asked for an increase in penalties from one to five years, instead of six months to three years, as well as an increase in fines ranging from one to five years for gas weapons, the unauthorized holding of these weapons, explosive matter, making exchanges or selling to citizens of such weapons that are not allowed at all. I see here an MP who's had trouble with that store. So, it's not allowed for citizens to be in their possession and we've proposed instead of punishment from one to five years, to increase from three to 10 years. We also suggested that no fine be imposed for a violation under this law, but that the sentence be minimum of 15 to 60 days in prison. We think there's a significant social danger due to uncontrollable possession and use of weapons. On one parliamentary question, which we were asking at the time, we received the answer that from 01.03.1992 until the end of April 1994, so practically in two years, the MUP filed a total of 15.705 criminal charges for the execution of 16.894 crimes under Article 33 of this Law. 21,170 pieces of different firearms were temporarily seized during the two-year period, of which 106 rifles, 2,000 machine guns, over 3,000 other rifles, 10,000 guns and 5.147 hand grenades and 650 other weapons. About 460,000 pieces of ammunition of different caliber, 756 explosive devices and about 350 pieces of explosives were seized. Why did we lose four years? Why did it take four years for us not to put the Law on the agenda of this congregation? So the government doesn't support him or adopt him. Because for me and every MP, the citizen of this country, it does not matter whether a good legal solution is proposed by a MP who is authorized to do so, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or.... 15,000 citizens of this country. Let us overcome these vanitys and put legal solutions on the agenda, that we all participate in their creation, not that we have this kind of vanity, pride and pride that we will adopt only what the Government proposes, at the cost of losing four years, and therefore be responsible for the human lives that have been saved over the past four years. I'm talking about the government and the Parliament and all of us. I'm not saying anything personal. We wanted to do this four years ago, unfortunately we didn't have a chance. So I welcome you to do it today. I believe there has been good will before, but it has been challenged by some other political circumstances. First of all, it was the highest expectation of the federal state that it would adopt this law in accordance with its powers. But regardless of the vanity and all this, we must support this and advocate not only for the adoption of such a law, but also for its maximum respect, as well as to oblige the MUP, the competent judicial authorities and prosecutors to strictly and rigorously apply this law. If not because of us, then at least because of children who are increasingly in this country victims and actors of bloody events concerning the use of weapons on the streets of our cities and now all over Serbia. So I think that every good solution should be accepted no matter who the proposer is and we advocate that this law is strictly applied. A new democracy will certainly vote for this law. Thank you and Mr. Minister for having this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1400	Thank you. There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1401	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that this bill is good and should be supported. I agree with the words of MP Lekovic and I wonder why New Democracy, which was at the time in the government did not initiate, in the government, a pardon, the adoption of this law. So this government does its job well and makes good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1402	Here you go, Nebojsa Lekovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1403	Gentlemen, it's not -- at the government, "on" is a proposal, in the government -- it's something else. Secondly, here's why did we withdraw the bill? Because we got a letter from the government, which was mine at the time, and we listened to the proposal to wait for the federal law to be passed. I also asked the Committee - what will happen to the other brotherly republic when people come to Serbia and bring guns? This has to be done at federal level. However, we received assurances, i.e. information from the MUP, that one such law is passed there as well. It means it'll be settled. If nothing else, at least we'll learn a little grammar better in these communications.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1404	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on arms and ammunition in principle. For 178, against five, abstentions, one was not voted, 184 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunition in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Arms and Ammunition Act as a whole. For 175, against five, two abstentions, all voted, a total of 182 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions. Now to make a deal, we have two more easy laws and parliamentary questions. I will keep my promises, since you didn't vote, on my word you accepted, I respect your word, may we continue and finish. Thank you. I won't do it without a deal with you. There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we don't have two points, we have three points, the third point is parliamentary issues. That's what's important. There are only three ways to do our duty under the Constitution to control the government's work. Just three. One is a vote of confidence and mistrust, the other is an interpretation that we do not have in our rules of procedure, and the third is parliamentary issues. If we're going to act like this so that on a deep night we're asking ministers to attend and give answers, then we really don't respect that form of our obligations to exercise government control, which is in the interest of both the Assembly and it's in the interest of the government itself. Because he can and can answer all the current questions and therefore there is no need to write in the papers and ask each one questions. This is where questions will be asked and answers answered. We cannot ask the ministers to gather or inform themselves now that today will be an answer to these questions when we have said in advance that it will be in the course of tomorrow. The second thing, on the agenda we have not two secondary laws, but the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, one extremely serious thing, and second, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violences. So what we're going to do tonight -- we're determining our relationship to such serious issues as these.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-07-0.u1406	Mr. Mikovic has no need for this, I asked the MPs, because we agreed to work only on the ninth item of the agenda. If you intervene, I respect your attitude. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I ask the MPs to take their seats to begin our work. Dear People's MPs continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 144 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Milan Nikolic, Dr Karol Kasas, Živojin Stefanovic, Milet Novakovic, Mr Peri Milovanovic, Dr Ljubisa Mihajlovic, Jožefu Kasi, Dr Leposavi Milicevic and Šemsudin Kučević. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We continue to work on the established agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill in the proposed text. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic.
