ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a very serious addition to the law, relating to the laws of 1991 and 1992, which tries and successfully corrects many major historical injustices, which has been done to many peasants since 1946, especially those whose country was taken away in 1953 under the Law on the General Land Fund, the Agricultural Fund and many peasants, who have lost land due to their unfulfilled obligations to the state in connection with the mandatory ransom. I am convinced that this amendment of the law should be reconsidered and I am willing to suggest to the government that at this moment withdraw this proposal, given the member mentioned here 12a. and 12b. In time, when the country was taken from peasants, it was taken away for several reasons, but always the state took away, was federal, whether it was republican. Since the state took away land, whatever the reasons, invented, although ideological in 1946, as well as 1953, because the country was being taken away in light of provisions that a farmer, if there are 25 hectares of the highest quality country, would become a bourgeois the day after tomorrow and if he has more than 10 hectares in 1953, also. This element has severely damaged many farmers, who have since been constantly afraid of whether the state will continue to take up property policy. Let's not forget that by 1966, a peasant in our country had no right to buy any new agricultural machinery, couldn't buy a tractor, a combination. This was forbidden by law, and until 1990, the peasant was forbidden to use external labour, although that seemed to be the case. What we are now not establishing, unfortunately, with this addition to the law, of those laws of 1991 and 1992, for which the country was returning, is that we are now not burdening the state with the obligation that it must compensate those, of whom it has taken away land in its own time. Where the federal state was taking away, it should be loaded. However, the laws of 1946 and 1953 were federal. Because of the political situation in the country seven or eight years ago, it was good that Serbia had committed itself to correcting a great injustice in its territory, although less all the land that was taken up in Yugoslavia was in Serbia and Vojvodina's territory. Outwards very little touched the land, if at all touched. With the obligation of this law to compensate those who were once damaged by the land, we are now burdening any cooperative, any enterprise or agricultural good to be the one that should be compensated by the former owner. That's not allowed. The state has taken the land and the state has to pay off the former owner, unless it is able to return the land directly to him. There are models that can be done. The worst thing is that this law is proposed, which is that if the one holding the property is unable to return it because of the buildings built on it, he is unable to return it to the former owner, he can now, if he is sued in court, get one ideal right to stretch out for a full 10 years the payment of the compensation taken of the property, and now with him, which in the meantime, is increased. At the same time, this law does not revolve that amount in any way, which will be paid at ten years, nor binds it to the retail price index, which will increase in the meantime, nor binds it to any foreign currency, if necessary as an anchor, nor binds it to the stock price of gold. So, if the court once determines what the property value is, let's say this year, the disputed assets, within 10 to 11 years, practically the amount to be paid, and quarterlyly paid, those last sums may be enough to buy a glass of mineral water, and it will have no connection with the real value of this property. Since, in my opinion, and I believe that this will be shared by many experts, and above all by those damaged, the state is obliged to deprive those who were injured in the meantime by taking away the land, then the state would have to pay off those who were damaged. This can be done by adopting a new tax code, where some of the existing ones who are not useful would eventually be abolished, so that the additional population would not be burdened, but new tax laws could raise funds to pay off everyone currently, not waiting 10 or 11 years for it. Private property is sacred, it must not be touched, if it is touched for a number of reasons, and at that time and ideological, if a great injustice is corrected, then let it be done immediately, instantly and efficiently. If the state finds it unpopular and economically too difficult for it to pass a new tax law, by which it would raise money into the budget and currently pay the damages, it can offer the damaged country elsewhere, offer safe securities of value, or, in the event that our mutual relations, these countries and abroad, can be warmed up, the foreign credit can also be taken, from where the currently damaged would be paid off, and the state then assumes on itself that the credit is returned, possibly through the tax it would then issue. As set up now, the damaged will still remain damaged, they will not receive the money they deserve and perhaps even a third generation of heirs will receive that money when the value of that money will no longer mean anything, and the old injustice will remain unmistakable.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1143	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Minister Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1144	We're staying with the bill. I'm glad Ambassador Veselinov also praised this law. He thus realized that he had already been realized to the greatest extent. One hundred and sixty thousand hectares, what total level was required to return land, with a hundred and fifty thousand hectares of procedure in general completed. There are tens of thousands of hectares left that are in the process of resolution. Of those 10,000 hectares, two-thirds refer to the unbuilt city building land. Therefore, when it comes to the return of land to peasants, it must be noted that the work is practically done in general. We have here found this general interest which is why we define the payment obligations in money in a way that is suitable for this real situation, but it has to be clear - and that Veselinov MP is wrong - that this amount is contained in real value, because it is valorised by the price growth coefficient for a little bit. Therefore, even those citizens who receive compensation in the next period will not be damaged. The general interest due to the general situation must be respected and the Government remains on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1145	Anybody else answer for a word? (Nicho) I am concluding the search of the draft law in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the way and conditions of the recognition of the right and return of land that has passed into social property on the basis of the agricultural land fund and the confiscation due to the non-execution of the compulsory purchase of agricultural products in general. For 162, v. 39, no abstention, two MPs did not vote, a total of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the manner and conditions of recognition of the right and return of land that has passed on to social property on the basis of the agricultural land fund and confiscation due to the unexecuted obligations arising from the compulsory purchase of agricultural products. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Roads has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Transport and Connections, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law in general, and the Legislative Committee, which adopted this bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? There's a word from MP Tihomir Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1146	Mr. President, gentlemen of the presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament, the concept of this law shows that the Ministry of Transport and Communications is now being set aside, or is being educated by a special organisation - the Republic Road Directorate. Maybe that's a good thing. We'll see. Its task is, as it is said, to work to improve the overall network of highways and regional roads. And I can accept that in principle. Gentlemen, I must say, so far, the Republic Government has paid very little attention to the development and improvement of the travel network. Let's just look at the Ibar highway, it's in terrible shape, and nothing is done to fix it. You're telling yourself, in the light of the law on page two, that huge resources are being raised to develop a travel network. The question arises where so far these funds have been spent, and so far they have been under government control. I can tell you that many municipalities in Serbia may have better rural roads than these highways or regional roads. I've cited an example of the Ibar Highway, and that specifically refers to the portion of the League to the Mines. We all know what it means to a travel network economy. Without a good travel network there is no development of tourism, because how foreign tourists will come if our roads are bad. We from the Serbian Renewal Movement have in our programme to resolve it. But we are ready to support all other solutions leading to the improvement of the travel network, because it is the interest of all citizens of Serbia. After all, we are here for the citizens of Serbia. I can't help but say that it is necessary to access the construction and repair of the bad regional roads as soon as possible. Let's not run around and make pre-elections and open up -- which would be pre-election roads. And for God's sake, we've had cases like this before. I'll give you an example of Požeg municipality. A part of the regional road was made before the last presidential and parliamentary elections in minutes to twelve. Part of the funds -- I admit -- were provided by most of the Republic, but part of the funds was provided by the Municipal Directorate for Construction. We from the municipality participated in the construction of a part of that road, because it is the interest of our citizens. We don't want to share citizens, we want to share a common interest in making everyone feel better. We were surprised, gentlemen, by the fact that the current minister of traffic and communications, who opened and released that part of the road, did not find it necessary to report and call the municipal leadership. Gentlemen, the electoral will of the citizens must be respected. After all, the Serbian Renewal Movement always points out and acts accordingly, and the move by the then Prime Minister and the government themselves should go to face them. All the funds that are collected here, in the Republic, or in the municipalities and spent on building roads -- people's money, so we all have to respect it. In the end, I want to say this. Gentlemen of the government, and not just the Ministers of Transport and Communications, you must all make an effort to exploit our country's geographical position. Let's co-operate with neighbouring countries, introduce foreign capital that will invest funds in our paths, because they have an interest in us having good roads, because that's how their marches are cut short. Let's not let strangers get around us with their vehicles, because our paths are in bad shape. I think this law will justify trust if citizens benefit from its application.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1147	He has the word of the Messenger of the people Zivadin Jotic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1148	Mr President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it turns out that the most important item in this bill of passage is the establishment of the Republic Directorate for Roads and the Republic Public Roads Inspectorates. Maybe it's kind of good. In point 2. The Republic Directorate shall adopt a medium-term programme for the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the Master's and Regional Roads. The Directorate also calls on its advice to adopt a medium-term programme. That's good. It is also good that the Republic Directorate submits six-month reports to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The inspection referred to in the following text should be above the Road Construction Directorate, it should be above the Directorate, which is not clearly stated here, but it should be, because the inspection is being supervised. In my discussion, I would say something about a condition on the roads, regional and masteral, at least something more to say about the roads I've traveled. The condition of the roads is extremely frightening. All roads to this extent have been damaged, as it is said, have been patched up, and this is done in this poor country through shovels and mobile rollers. And this has led to the fact that the roads are irregular, as the jumbo is said, and there is a correct change ahead of them, and that is very expensive. The roads were not maintained properly, and for years there was a collection of dedicated means for roads, taxes on gasoline, for a roadway based on registration, and for many years there was no way of knowing where they were going. It is likely that this country has been living off these funds rather than investing in new roads and maintaining existing ones. Many, if not most roads, as well as highways were built by the resources of the people's banks. These routes were not made by our state with their resources, but by foreign loans that were not even returned, and that is where our country's foreign debt is involved. These debts to us foreign creditors will never be written off and I'm afraid they'll have to be paid off by our grandchildren. New foreign loans at this point won't be able to win a bar until we get close to Europe and the world, at least in some democratic change. Our highway is surrounded by foreigners traveling from Europe to the south. Why are they bypassing it? For a time, foreign exchanges have been sought because our most expensive toll is in Europe and the bad road. The path is quite wavy, it has smaller and larger damages, drowsiness. Just look at the fence by the highway, and you'll see what condition it's in, and there are no fences on some roads. If you're going at any higher speed, if an animal comes along, you know what's going on. Romania and Bulgaria are taking a trip to their countries, they are slowly dragging traffic and making roads by renting a gas station for 10 years and thus saving their roads, and we are sitting here waiting. The Minister of Transport and Communications is engaged in the occupation and entertainment of throwing MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement instead of raising a procedural issue on the issue.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1149	He has the word of the People's Messenger Jemail Suljević.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1150	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have before us a bill of adoption. The road law. It is also an extremely important issue from our point of view of this law, the existing law and the proposed law amending and supplementing the basic law does not address key issues in terms and in the context of evenly the development of a travel network at the level of the state. Especially unacceptable are two chapters of basic, therefore, existing law. Even with the proposal to amend and supplement this law, these issues are not addressed in the context of the state's even development. And from the point of view of Sandzak and the travel network, we believe that there is an obvious case of regional and ethnic discrimination. For what I'm saying, I have arguments, and you'll be able to hear it. So, in this law, especially in Chapter 5, which refers to the management of the master's and regional roads and in chapter six where road compensation and road financing can be found. In particular, in this Chapter five in Article 48, it does not provide a system for how and where to invest in the construction, reconstruction and development of the travel network, but is left subjectively to the Government or the competent ministry or the Roads Directorate to decide where and how much to invest. It says here that based on an analysis of the needs of construction, reconstruction, maintenance and development of the network, according to current needs, the government will target resources and construction. What is fundamentally missing from this law is that there are no relevant criteria for determining the priorities to be built. That is the key question and the most important question of what this law does not contain. That it is true that Sandzak as a space in terms of the travel network was discriminated against, I will present several data that the Republic Road Inspector has just made, i.e. made one analysis of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the town of Sjenica. And here's the point one: "After the degree of construction, modernisation and the general state of the current quality of August on the network of highways and regional roads, the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica is in the last place of 10 municipalities of the Zlatibor County and all municipalities of the Republic of Serbia (the narrow area), which is clearly from Table 1. Here's Table 1. There's a net. I'm taking an example here of only one Sanjay municipality, and it's a similar situation in other municipalities. The pavedness of regional roads in the area, for example, is 21.7 per cent, and the rest are land and macadam. The asphaltity of the highways is only 53 percent, so there are also unaveraged or only ground roads about 48km of highways. They have a category of highways. In the area of the cave, there is not a single square metre of paved asphalt when it comes to rural roads, hence local and untegrated roads, while the average is at the level of the Republic in rural roads 50 per cent of asphalt. That average, so this one reduces the Sandzak area. And when it comes to road network, the Prepolje-Senica highway has been built for 50 years and hasn't been built yet. The regional road that goes from Ivanjica, which should go from Ivanjica via Duga Poljana, Rasna, Ugoo and towards the White Pole, one of the oldest regional roads, is still not paved, and in winter conditions it is even impenetrable. And I'm going to say another little argument the same from this study of the Republic Inspector, where he says, referring to the highway: "Because of the poor condition of the road and August road elements, traffic is difficult for this category of traffic. It's a master's trip that goes from Novi Pazar to Sjenica and to Novi Varosha, where we have a situation where traffic is difficult to deal with. The result of such a condition of travel network in the area of the Cave is a lot of lost lives, in the labor of women, especially in winter conditions, where they could not reach the doctor, we have many deaths of turning from tractors and other cave cars, just the next and driving along the waterless. So, from our point of view, this basic law and the proposed additions and amendments to the law are unacceptable to us. And if no fundamental changes are made in terms of the even development of the road network in both the Sandzak and the Republic and the State, we will feel that the Government and the current regime are knowingly discriminating that space. Of course, in this law there are, in Chapter 6, and errors in the numbers, let's say in Article 54(3), this needs to be corrected, I think it's a printing error, not 51 but 52. In Article 56, there are also some illogicalities, where it says that 10 percent can be isolated from those resources that are allocated to oil derivatives, can be isolated for local, untegrated roads, if they are in the function of migration movements, I guess if they are in the function of preventing migration movements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1151	I'm asking the MPs not to use cell phones in the O.R. because they're affecting electronic equipment. There is a word from MP Zoran Vukadinovic and the next reported is Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1152	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, as an MP from the district who, by chance, mentioned my previous speaker, I am obliged to say a few words, which I will do in that section relating to a law that is very interesting and necessary for this Serbia and this country. By making and extracting the Directorate as a special factor of value in Serbia, with the Ministry of Capital Investment, it says that this Serbia thinks of its country, that this country wants such ones and these are the real laws. I am obliged to say that we must remember the time behind us, the time of sanctions, when this country all wanted to destroy, the Ministry of Capital Investments was engaged in public works, which is the construction of roads, the employment of all those who are obliged to build this country. As a man, I am very pleased that I have participated in part of helping this path to Serbia's development. I'm obliged to say that the Directorate has rules of play that don't last by passing this law, they last many years back. It is known who is building highways, what are concepts, how highways are built, and certainly the competent resolution ministry must take care of, build and indicate that this Serbia wants to have as much private and private as possible. So we're not in that part, and I don't want to challenge any predecessors whether what he's saying is true or not. All I know is that highways must be looked after by the ministry, local roads must be cared for by the municipality, if it is interested that its regional path wants to fix the rules are clear - 50 percent by the Directorate, 50 percent of the funds are given to the municipality that wants to build its roads. I also know that local roads build the Directorate, municipalities and entities as local communities and citizens who are interested in building this with project documentation. Therefore, there is nothing to blame. It can be said that the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted by some colleagues and it has exactly given guidance that the path by which priority, as well as my Ibar highway to Ljiga, will be given as much importance as it deserves. I struggle for both Kosovo and Metohija, according to the part where Serbian spirituality and statehood, to get the width of the road. Make it 15 meters, I won't be mad. But I can't ask my country and my government to in this difficult time, when terrorists rule and want to destroy us, to do everything in a week. I am sure that by adopting this law, we will raise funds, that we will correctly invest those funds, and that we will know by means of the government programme of the Republic of Serbia which way and by what priority we will fix. I want to support this law to ask that by building these roads as few victims as possible and that roads and bridges are combined by people, and that they are never separated.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1153	There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1154	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I come from Electoral Unit 20, Moravia County, seat of Electoral Unit Cachak. To remind lawmakers that in the election unit last September, the absolute victory took the Serbian Renewal Movement to parliamentary elections, and thus the president of our party received an absolute majority of votes in the entire district as a presidential candidate. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: This then and never again. ) No matter how much SPO MPs are charged with attacking only the Serbian Radical Party from the coalition partners in the government, so it will be this time, just because the resolution minister of traffic and connections, if I am not mistaken, is from the Serbian Radical Party. Speaking of ministers, I have information that the minister in the local elections could not pass in his local community or as a municipal councilman. The question arises, what kind of personnel policy is the Prime Minister of the Republic...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1155	Mr. Jovanovic, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1156	.... when he proposes to be the minister of a man who was not voted by neighbors and neighbors from the local community. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads, we members of the SPO Legislative Committee have supported the proposed amendments to the law, with a fence on whether to amend and supplement the law. Mr. Seselj, as professor of introductory law at the University of Pristina, knows that we, as students, have learned that the legal order consists of legal regulations, legal norms and conduct systems in the same order, which makes it legal. Professor, am I right? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You forgot something else. It's got six elements. Forget it? That's when I'm in grad school.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1157	Mr. Jovanovic, please don't have a dialogue with the MPs, please...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1158	..... University of Sarajevo. You studied in Sarajevo and I studied in Belgrade. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You said three and has six elements. That's not enough for a six. ) The Law on Roads, which was adopted in 1991, if I am not mistaken, provided that out of the total tax collected on the sales of oil products in the municipality 95% is directed into road management, and 5% of the municipality on whose territory it is collected. Now this Road Directorate is becoming the Republic Roads Directorate. We hope that she will not act as an ex, who did not comply with the legal obligation, so I have the information for Cacak municipality that since 1992 no single dinar on this basis has been paid. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Who rules in Chačka? ) Then, as the Roads Directorate had under the current law and under the amended law, the Republic Directorate has the obligation to adopt a medium-term programme and finance construction, reconstruction, maintenance and protection of the development of highways and regional roads. As my colleague Suljević mentions, if I am not mistaken, certain data can be provided here as to how many municipalities have received from the Road Directorate. Since Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vojislav Seselj asks who is ruling in Chačka, about telling him that last year the Municipality of Cacak of the Roads Directorate did not receive a single dinar. In Chačka, we thought it was a political criterion, since the SPS lost power in Chačka. But when we saw they were getting Kragujevac and Uzice, where the SPS didn't rule, we saw it wasn't the criteria. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: We cannot identify who is ruling yet. ) Mr. Tomic, if you think it's a good behavior for the Deputy Prime Minister to throw in an MP, do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1159	I warned you not to have a dialogue, but to talk about the agenda point. Please don't win. I'll warn you publicly, and after that you know what's coming.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1160	As I'm aware, it's not planned in the 1998 program. As the Kragujevac is known for the saying "seeing as rain around Kragujevac", so Cačak will become known for the saying -- he visits it as the Republic Roads Directorate. Otherwise, the bypass around the town of Cačka is a highway and is in the jurisdiction of both protection and investment investment by the Republic Road Directorate. The road passes through the centre of Cačka which is decided by SO Cačak to be declared the direction of the regional traffic station Cačak - Šiljkovica. So, the Republic has a duty to participate in the maintenance of this highway and this regional traffic station, and that duty is not fulfilled. When it came to winter road maintenance last year when we were competent from the company to maintain a regional road through the centre of Cačka, the Directorate was unable to provide a single kilo of salt to pour. They said -- don't worry, we'll pour the shirt instead of the salt. We say, "Don't, you're going to block our rain drains, and then it's going to cost us much more to blow up that rainy sewerage, so we're going to come from our humble community springs." (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What does the word "smoking" mean? ) Ask Rada Trajkovic, she will explain. The town of Cachak had to take the responsibility of the Republic and protect the regional road passing through Cachak. Therefore, the SPO supports the amendment and supplementation proposal this time. In a legal and technical sense, this bill is correct, but provided that it is applied in practice. I also thank these people for throwing these guys away.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1161	Dragan Todorovic, the minister of traffic and connections, wants a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently some MPs who were behind this pay phone, in my deep confidence, are not able to cross the road alone without being translated, not debated.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1163	Mr. Minister, please take care of the dignity of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1164	It's interesting that thieves, over time, think their work will be forgotten. At the Vozdovac municipality, the SPO stole the Serbian Radical Party candidate's mandate, although the poll was held five times in the poll, and in those elections I won three times, and twice the elections were annulled. There is among you the president of the Vozdovac municipality, who confirmed that the mandate was stolen, but justified that by coming to power he must steal, and you in Belgrade show it every day. Look at your radiators, look at your city traffic. If you didn't have people from Republika Srpska, Montenegro and all over Serbia, no citizen of this town would ever get to work, not a single student at school. You're all aware of that. From what you're picking up, you're going on a variety of trips, thinking there's not going to be a day when you're going to file an account. You boast that you have won power in Chačka and some other municipalities. Where is your authority today? Why doesn't Mr. Velimir Ilic sit with you in this room here? Why are the other MPs, who, as your candidates, passed by in the Municipality of Cachak, not sitting here with you or no longer in your ranks? Because they realized that the leadership of the Serbian Renewal Movement could not do a single job useful to the people, or citizens, except for the Draskovic family and another small number of people gathered around them. That's a problem you won't be able to solve. You have, if God gives you the happiness of not having an early election, to climb this MP's pay, to go out for this pay phone, and that's all you have to do until the next election. In the next election, you will have the opportunity to make sure that the citizens are not at all naive and expect absolutely nothing from you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1165	The word has Zoran Jovanovic, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1166	There's no reason the Republic Minister thinks it's terrible...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1167	Mr. Todorovic spoke to you as a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1168	Yeah, but about the election on the Leader. When a federal MP can lose the election in the local community, as Mr. Zoran Bingulac lost, and set up as federal minister, then a republican minister can lose in the local community. About Cačak, why is there not a single Serbian Radical Party committee member in Cačka of 70 parliamentary seats? There are 30 council members of the Serbian Renewal Movement, and 15 committee members were not members of the Serbian Renewal Movement when elections were held. This is because of the general public I have to say. So, the Chakra government of the Democratic Party coalition and the coalition of former members, i.e. to say non-members of the Serbian Renewal Movement People were not members of the Serbian Renewal Movement. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Mr. Ilic has deceived us, deceived us, and otherwise the Serbian Radical Party does not have any councilmen. I think I responded to the Deputy Prime Minister who is ruling in Cačka, only you answer me if you support Djindjic? (Vojislav Seselj from the place: Whom we support is our business. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1169	There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1170	I'm really sorry about the Serbian Renewal Movement. I still thought I'd spare them and not say everything, but I have to say, unfortunately, right now, just about Chuck. I spoke with Velimir Ilic, and he admitted to torture that the only and the main reason he broke up with Draskovics was because he did not want to pay 50%, which he was obliged to pay for every president of the municipality set up by the Serbian Renewal Movement. That is the basic reason why you lost, which is why you had a fight with Velimir Ilic. Here's the president of the Vozdovac municipality, so let him tell you how much he paid for his presidency and when he paid for it. You know that, I don't need to convince you, but this is for the public, not for you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1171	He has the word Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1172	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see that all MPs of the National Assembly support this legislative project, because the project is good and will bring positive changes to our practice in this area. Since we've all agreed on this project, we can have a little fun, and the occasion is always the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, and if you weren't in this National Assembly, we would be terribly bored. Through all these jokes, a serious problem arises, the problem of nepotism, the problem of these kinships and relationships, so perhaps an initiative could be launched to change the electoral law, so that the electoral law so clearly formulates that we always know on your lists who your party personnel are, and who your relatives are, and so goes the list of relatives of the Serbian Movement and goes the list of activists of the Serbian Renewal Movement. That's right when you go to local elections. Local elections were attended by activists, and functions in Belgrade's city government were taken over by relatives. There aren't many activists among the officials, but there are huge numbers of relatives. The Democratic Party has made full lists of those relatives, and you have not denied it. We don't know you that well. When I was president of the municipality came to me Slavica Altipar-Markov, City Secretary for Education, first to commend us for investing a lot in Zemun schools, and then to propose some other projects. I take it well, we talk and she introduces herself as the sister of Vuk Draskovic. I didn't know that Vuk Draskovic had so many relatives, and I'm not talking about Danica Draskovic. You know it best. Then let's go from two lists to the next election, even if the people knew - these are party activists, you can vote for them, and these are party relatives, you can vote for them, so let each one be defined. Then take care when you're deploying post-election functions, if you happen to have a local community somewhere to regain power, then at least half the party activists among the officials determine, and half the relatives. Don't like now just cousins to hold power, and you have to get your back campaign out. Zoran Jovanovic is asking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1173	You're no longer right, you're the one who caused the replica. You went out once, and it's over. You mentioned Mr. Seselj, but you have no right to do it again. You can mention 100 MPs, so you think you can go out a hundred times. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's a word from MP Atanakovic, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1174	Dear fellow Members of the People, I had no intention of going out and talking about this law. I think more of a matter that practically regulates one area within the work of one ministry and I'm surprised, it's clear that there are a lot of colleagues here who want to talk about roads, as one very important thing for our country, so it seems to me more of a reason for what we've heard so far. But I don't really know if it makes any sense anymore, if one of these laws is being discussed, at the same time it goes to all the other fields that have nothing to do with the law, and then the whole discussion, although it may be more interesting to us, might be boring, but it shouldn't be answered in such a way at first, and since I'm being called here on several different levels, first of all, I really didn't pay my place as president of the municipality. I am of the first people to engage in our political changes in 1990s, with the desire to create a multi-party, and to help this country get into the order of the rest of the world, and to try through the multi-party, not with such disputes and stories, but with serious work to contribute to the improvement of our country. As far as we've been able to do that, I'm sorry to be able to conclude that the same phenomena are still present and that we haven't made any serious progress in that field. As for this other matter, some of my statements, or as the minister says, otherwise the resident of my municipality, that it was stolen and that it was the SPO and the like, you know what the electoral law was like and you know what was going on these days and months. He participated in the competition with his opponent in five rounds, he won, he won the second round, and it ended as it ended. In that I can't really be an arbiter, that's where the courts were arbitration, as in all other situations. You know, it was also applied to the Lex of our special president. Therefore, judging whether he was more right one or the other was really difficult. But I think they're too heavy qualifications for that act and they don't fit this place. We need to talk about other things here, not things like that. I think this is a waste of time. We have serious business to do. We're serious people. Although it may be interesting, it's part of the story, but I don't think it's the place to discuss it like this. I really don't want to, or can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1175	There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1176	There is not much to be convinced, it is enough to observe Mr. Atanakovic and to understand what a difficult situation he is in. It's hard to admit the truth. He doesn't know what happened, and he's the president of the county where they stole my mandate. He doesn't know what the results were, he says - he was winning, I was winning. That's not true. Twice the elections were annulled, once at the Serbian Radical Party appeal, twice at the SPO appeal, and three times, when the results were numbered, I won. And the fifth time I won, you complained to the court. And the judges, with whom you did what you did, made the kind of decision they made. But the citizens said their word. The best example can be of 21 September elections, when citizens voted in favour of the republican parliament. In the polling post, all four times from 21 September to 21 December, the Serbian Radical Party won convincingly. Therefore, if he lies to the goat, they do not lie about the results in the September, October and December elections.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1177	There's a word from the MP of Life Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1178	Dear Members, we are indeed in a position today, regardless of our political status, to give full support to such a legal project. Why? Well, it's in everyone's interest to further perfect the road network, to further strengthen the municipal infrastructure. This is exactly how the government creates space, giving a new role and place to the Road Directorate. It's the interest of all our citizens, it's the interest of this country, and for that we must be absolutely unique. A number of MPs today realized that a work report was being discussed and sought to minimise the results, which have been achieved in recent years on this plan. If this government of national unity should be commended for something, it should be commended for its efforts to really change images in our travel network. No one claims we have developed a road network, but it is undeniable that more has been done on the plan than ever, in the entire area of Serbia from Horgos to Dragas was done on local, regional, master's roads and highways. Everywhere, where there were initiatives and where the citizens were on their feet and everywhere, where the citizens were ready to join the funds, they came out across the Road Directorate, municipal or republican, and so, of course, they should behave. There were no political criteria as far as belongings were concerned, we were all in the same position. That's why I'm pleading with you today to give full support to this project. It is indisputable that we can talk and that today we can open up space for some new initiatives, how to get new sources of funds, to make it even more work. So I'm giving full support to this kind of legal project, because this is how we create conditions and ambience to continue these activities. For as the Latins say, Via e vita, the way is life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1179	The building minister, Dejan Kovacevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1180	Dear President, honourable MPs, I would like to present some information, which is interesting for the Serbian Parliament. First, in the Republic of Serbia, we have 17,000km of regional and state roads. We've already built 600 kilometers of highways, and on one side there are half highways with all the elements of the highway. This year, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a programme to build 224 projects in the Republic of Serbia. Practically all these projects are already in the final phase and funds are being invested in both local, regional and highway routes. I can tell you that this year it's built on 48 highways, 72 regional roads and 104 local roads. The government of the Republic of Serbia programme envisions some of the funds for security and municipalities, especially on local roads. In this period, since this programme was adopted in 1998, more than 300km of local, regional and state roads have been done, all organised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Next, I can tell you that highways are being built. By the end of this year we end 15.5km of highway, which we have left from last year from Saturday to the border with Hungary and the extension of the border crossing. A section of the highway bypass ends with a large bridge over Sava near Belgrade of 16.8km and will be released before the end of the year. We are building a 24km highway near Leskovec and 21km of highway from Macedonia's border towards Bujanovac. It is also in construction of a 5.6km highway from Nis towards the Bulgarian border. It's the Komnen-Average. Furthermore, I can tell you that the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken steps to design construction for next year. In the final phase, the general project of the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway, a 130km section, is approaching Cačka. The project includes a general project of a highway from Nis towards the Bulgarian border and has prepared all the elements for giving concessions to build a highway from Nis towards the Macedonian border. Therefore, these are all the jobs done in this year and financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and financed from the following sources: one part of the funds is charged as road tolls and is used to build local roads, both regional and state-owned and road maintenance. I can tell you that 15 million dinars for road maintenance are invested every month and the funds that will be used for maintenance in the winter period are provided for the removal of snow and ice from the highways, as well as from all other roads that are in the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia also adopted one regulation at the end of 1996, where funds for highway construction are allocated from oil derivatives. And this year, in May, she made a decision to separate 25 pairs of sold gasoline from the local, regional and state roads. So these are all the sources used this year. Someone here mentioned foreign loans. I can tell you that in 1991 they were suspended by the European Community, the ones it gave to the Republic of Serbia. And everything that was built in 1991. - highways and these roads in the Republic of Serbia, as well as maintenance, all financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that our trans-European highway is already at that stage that it looks much better than it does in many other neighbouring countries, but it's true that we had as little resources as we could do. Now, with the program that the government adopted to go in the concession, we want to attract a concessionaire, where we would give him one share. Normally, this is where the government needs to make a decision, adopt a concession act and call an international bid. And it's kind of attracting foreign capital. I think all this data is saying enough what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. Next, I have to say a few words about how to determine what to do and what to do. The Road Directorate shall hire the Institute of Roads to perform a programme based on the recorded situation on the ground, damaged August and traffic frequencies on the road and on this basis the programme shall be adopted. It's true that we have far more needs than we have financial resources, but that's why we choose what needs to be built in that year. I think that some directions, such as highways and regional roads, are always a priority, because there is the biggest traffic frequency, but I have to say that local roads are also important to citizens, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is helping to make some local roads or repairs, or build up, or to correct certain elements. For all of this this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia will invest about a billion and 300 million dinars from these various sources, at least that's how we expect it to be, based on the data we have in ten months, because all these inflows are real and coming and being used to build these cars. Normally, these funds have to pay for the design, they have to pay for the expropriation, they have to pay for the equipment of the car. Furthermore, I think it also significantly invests in reconstruction and bridge construction. Serbia has over three thousand bridges, some of which were built by the end of the last century. So that's one piece of information that can be used by someone who wants to sink into this matter. I must say this, that the roads that have been brought to the city are in the jurisdiction of the Republic, and all that is in the city, which includes the streets etc., is the city's obligation to maintain these traffic facilities, their construction, reconstructions, etc. You have seen how much has been done in Belgrade, which has been done by local authorities, as well as in other cities. Normally, there are other sources of resources. I would like to add that last year, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia invested 81 million marks to build highways and highways in the Republic of Serbia. These are the funds that came from Telekom. So the government of the Republic of Serbia treats all citizens equally. This is a matter of expertise, prepared by experts and institutes, projectors, projects that are important to the Republic are regulated in the state audit committee, which is normally within the Ministry of Construction. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making sure that everything that needs to be invested - is invested as professionally as possible, that we get as many miles of highways for a certain sum of money. The needs are certainly higher, but we must keep in mind and the situation in which we are.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1181	There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I called before Mr. Cvetkovic, and you gave him your word even though I have the right to receive my word immediately, but I don't mind you, I don't think you've done it on purpose, but I would like to point out some things both about this law and about everything that's been said, especially before by Mr. Minister. Mr. Secretary says the government funded this, and this, and this. We all funded it. The government doesn't have any money. The government, based on its authority, has the money of all of us. So all the roads and all the other things that are done is to invest all of us, and let's not make the impression that the government has any other money to work with. Therefore, each of us wants to be proud that he too participated in the construction and this time and everything else that has been done. That's the first thing. The other thing I'd like to say is, it's an interesting thing, not to discuss today, but also the situation and the building of roads and all this. Today, however, we are limited - or should be limited - to what is on the agenda. Whether or not there are any objections in this respect, whether everything is just as good as it is shown here, whether this project could have been better and whether there are some things in this project that obviously failed at the first moment, that shouldn't have stayed like that. Take a member of the 47th order so far, and this is about a member of the 5th law. There is an amended attitude 1, where it is deleted that maintenance, protection and road construction are done on the basis of long-term and medium-term development programmes and the government has explained that there will be no longer long-term development programmes, which can be said - whether it is good or not, whether there should be long-term development plans in the construction of roads. So it's a subject that can be spoken of, but you didn't suggest that in front of the last three words, where the road management is mentioned, "Republic," because that's how we crossed it, and that's her name, and I think on the formal side, it's a failure that should be corrected, because in all other places where there was a directorship it changed. That's one thing. The other thing about this member is something to point out. So far, the existing Directorate, which will now be the Republic Directorate, has come up with a long-term plan, which will not exist, and a medium-term programme of maintenance, protection and everything else, which was agreed upon by the National Assembly. With this bill, the National Assembly does not have that authority, it does not have its authority, it has been deleted that the National Assembly gives consent to a medium-term plan, or medium-term programme, which will remain. It's a fact that exists, we need to indicate, or register, whether it's good or not. It's another thing and we can discuss it, but it's the unquestionable thing that exists here. In Article 5, you said - The Republic Road Directorate brings a medium-term programme of construction and reconstruction, maintenance, etc. and the annual programme of work on maintenance, protection and all that, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is it just the annual program that requires consent or the mid-term? I think that should be clear, but we got a notice on how it's going to be and how it's going to be, so I think it's important for all of us. The reasons why you spoke or proposed to introduce the Republic Roads Directorate, better say the whole system than the previous directorate, has one number of certainly good arguments. That's why we said that the part that needs to be supported in this law, because it can be controlled by a republican directorate who has this kind of independence, unlike where that directive was within the Ministry and sheltered by that ministry and the ability to control these things. I'd point to one more thing. The mid-term plan is agreed upon by the Government. However, in those three points mentioned in Article 51b, something else is said. The same is done with the government's consent, according to the ministry of traffic affairs. It is understood that the government will decide differently if its previous ministry has not given its opinion in any way. It is only qualified to give that opinion to the government. These are the relations between one ministry and the government and they are not the place in this law. These are the reasons of the professional and technical nature, in some places and essential, that of the role of the National Assembly that I felt I needed here to point out, and I think you have to trust, then what is most important and first give us time to read and compare every time the law is passed, to give us a full text of regulations that change, not just one point, but a complete list of members and problems that are involved in and in such a situation, and only in such a situation will we be able to fulfil our obligations that when we make laws to be better than those of the former.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1183	There is a word from MP Snezana Bajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1184	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President, I am an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement. This is what plagues me, and what torments the people of our land, who dwell in this land, who have no other land. This great disunity and bickering is a big problem. Believe me, people, trust my fellow Members that our country is in a major crisis. The Roads Act is on the agenda, and when it comes to this area, when it comes to the road network in our country, I can't say that it's ideal, that it's good, that development plans are good, because there are roads that are totally impervious in our country. And you think about the roads. There are roads that are partly passing, there are roads that have been destroyed, roads that were built years ago, and today they cannot be passed. One of the main reasons, it seems to me, perhaps the main one, I may not be right, because someone won't agree with me, traffic accidents is a condition on the roads. What this law provides, which I do not like, is that the role of a MP is neglected. You can laugh at my fellow MPs, but in collaboration with the people's MPs who represent the people, because the people tell the MPs thinking that the MP will bring all his troubles to the Parliament, so that the government can help solve these problems. [[Laughter]] However, you have neglected these problems in this law. It would be best if, in collaboration with the municipalities and with the proposals of the MPs, one member was introduced into the law because there was a disaster on our roads, that the situation was really catastrophic on the roads and that therefore one commission was formed to take pictures of all the roads and that after repairs of the roads that were most endangered, regardless of what part of our country they were in, they would find it for intervention. You can be the ones who throw all the anger you want at me, but when you go home, when you think about it, you'll see that I'm absolutely right. Go through the roads and you'll see what our paths are like. You'll see that our paths, first of all, are unmarked and already built roads. You will see on the roads of a car accident much bigger, and the reasons for the unmarked roads and unconscious work in poor climate conditions by the service that should maintain roads. First of all, if this is about seasonal conditions, it's about pouring salt. There was almost an accident, but thank God, it ended well because no one got hurt. Now on the defensive side of the Moravsky Bridge, the untimely security and salting of the bridge of women flew into Morava. On the other hand, the regional road of Fireman - Svilinac is catastrophic. The regional road Petrovac - The Great Plan is also in a catastrophic position.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1185	I ask MP Snezana Bajovic to talk about the law, not the state of the roads, because although it has to do with the law, it is not the subject of this agenda. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1186	Here's why. Who's gonna know tomorrow? The Directorate will know that the road of Alexandrovac - Mirjevo, which belongs to a group of regional roads, is not walking and the people cannot come to the doctor for treatment. They must no longer descend from the hills of bad roads. Will the Road Directorate know if he knows this moment or not? He doesn't know for sure. You out of the law, out of the former Law, where many things the congregation wondered about. It won't do for future work.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1187	There's a word from MP Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1188	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it's just amazing what some party MPs are allowed to do in this room. Of course, you're a lot of help. You hear both Minister Todorovic and Deputy Prime Minister Seselj, a lot of ugly words, do not react unless someone is talking about the law. So it's just amazing how many ministers don't know the basics, they don't know the first thing, and they say...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1189	Mr. Stevanović, please speak of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1190	Of course I'll talk about the law, but I have to get back to one thing, so it's been said that someone was giving money from the municipalities where we are. That's why it was a request for a replica. You didn't give it to us. It's impossible, whoever knows how to control the budget...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1191	Please, you didn't mention names...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1192	But let me tell you, what kind of ministers we have as well as the Government, that's the life in this country, and of course that's what we're interested in. I would ask Mr. Todorovic to tell us what qualifications he has for the minister, but since I am quite competent to talk about this law because for four years I have been president of the Committee in this assembly for traffic and connections, I know exactly what the situation is on the roads, and we have a report from the Government on the roads that are in catastrophic condition, on regional and state-of-the-art. The only thing worse than that is the state of the railroad. And once again, I remind you, according to the government's report, at least 10 billion marks are required for that railroad to be used properly. So that's what the fact is. On the other hand, as regards the Ministry itself or the Directorate for the Ways of the former, and now the new Republic Road Directorate, it must be said that what Mr Jovanovic said about Kragujevac is not true either. The Kragujevac also tours, as does the rain that surrounds him, these from the Department of Paths, or those from the Ministry. No money has been given to regional, freeways for the territory of the town of Kragujevac in these two years since we've been in power. And therefore, it is incorrect that the money is allocated to Kragujevac, because there are all the jobs on the road around Kragujevac and there is, and the agreement is, that 70 percent invests in the Republic and 30 percent in the city. Despite all the emergency, there's still no dinar on that side. On the other hand, when it comes to regional or local roads, I have to tell you some facts that probably don't sound true to some, but they're true. The territory of the town of Kragujevac was paved in the villages in 1996. The roads, in 1998, were paved by the villages of Kragujevac 33 km. We're on our way. That's how many times more you see. In the history of Kragujevac has never been paved more than 17 km. That's how the new government in Kragujevac works, SPO. It probably bothers some people. It's a similar situation in culture, in education, where we have our obligations, it's everywhere, and it's the truth about Kragujevac. It's on one side. On the other hand, these insults that come to the expense of SPO MPs have certain limits. I can say there's nothing funnier than a picture of Mr. Seselj in this place where I'm here now. I'm not going to say it simply because you'll see very soon now that I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1193	There is a word from MP Milos Nesovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Svirčević.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1194	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think it was clear after the presentation of Minister Dejan Kovacevic. I won't use that data because I know them too, since in 1994, I was an assistant minister of traffic and road connections. But the fact that the law was to be passed and the Department of Roads from the Ministry stands for several reasons. We will be able, or we will not be able to control it through inspection bodies, the Directorate, which is the authority of the Ministry of Traffic and Communications, I think it is incompatible and that it must be done for this reason. The Road Directorate will now have its own management package, of course it will have its own advice, its board of directors and its directors. And so far, since 1992, I have been monitoring that plans and analyses have always been made in the areas of all 29 districts in the Republic of Serbia. Probably, one of us wasn't in a position to do that, and that's probably why these discussions appear. Based on all the analysis and examinations on the ground, I can say that I followed very well the distribution of funds, which was done by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, along with the Directorate, and that these funds were channeled practically on both highways, regional roads, and on highways, where it was most needed. Minister Dejan Kovacevic also spoke of detours. For seven or eight years, a detour has been made in the King. These are huge resources and we need to understand that there are other priority obligations if this is assessed in the Ministry or the Directorate. But let's remember what time we've been through for these nine years and how we've collected funds to build and maintain our regional, state-of-the-art and highways. I am the first member of the Republic and I must tell you that I am very sorry that we spend a great deal of time out of the agenda, to offend someone or to represent ourselves politically to our voters. I think it would be much better if we spent time in the congregation and focused our activities and our work on the agenda, so that our laws were as good and as good as possible. Thank you very much and forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1195	Thank you. There is a word from the People's Messenger Ratimir Svircevic, and let the People's Messenger Tihomir Marjanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1196	Dear MPs, today we have a bill of travel, and neither of the MPs nor the minister of traffic, we have heard one in my opinion -- what is the path in this country that is the most burdened? Do you know? For many years, I would say, this first place has held the path of Belgrade - Novi Sad. That road is marked E-5, if I'm not mistaken, I'll be corrected by a gentleman, well E-75, E-5 is the old one that goes through Indji-Pazova, over there by the Sremski Karlovci, etc. I mean, these numbers talk a lot about the importance of the roads. You know that at the beginning of this century, when they were giving these signs to the E-1 pathways and beyond, that was at that time at the rate of importance, so E-1, for example, is Paris-Brissel, is that something like that and this is the E-5 path, I call it E-5, because he's a direct replacement for the path of old that passed, as I said, through India, New Paz, Batajnica and so on. It's a road we call a highway. No one in the world calls it the highway. For 20 years, this road has been unfinished, with one August side (I think it's the right time) where there are three lanes, where it's driven in such a way today, that in any cultural country any traffic inspection would ban that road until certain things were removed. Only in part of the road from Novi Sad to the pump minutes, it was the first pump from Novi Sad, in this year there were about 30 dead. Namely, there's a yellow ribbon (Minister, is that what we call it? ). It's called yellow tape and there are these two Augustes. Yellow is completely equally used and causes such danger that has caused such accidents. It's called the highway and it's been charged for 20 years. I'm asking you, where's the money? It is nice that you will extend this path to Saturday and practically to the border, but I think it would be very important that Vojvodina, which gave the most money by collecting tolls (the toll was harvested there before it was harvested on the way to Belgrade - Nis) gets the opportunity to make this route practically by car. That car road isn't and ask whoever understands these things and they'll tell you it's not a highway. All the bridges were left, all the crossings, all the overpasses 20 years ago, to make another tape. It hasn't been done yet. We have one car road in Vojvodina with four lanes (that's what it's called, it's actually got six lanes) it's this road that, with unfortunate circumstances, doesn't lead anywhere now. That's the way of Belgrade-Shid. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: How does it not lead anywhere?) Lead the way. ) It's nowhere for me, because that car, if you're going, it's like driving an airport runway. There's no vehicles, our country's going around. I hear they're making a detour through Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria to the Middle East. What can I say now? We charge for this road that doesn't lead anywhere, and there aren't much inflows. We charge our way from Belgrade all the way to Hajdukov. I don't see it writing anywhere, and I didn't hear it planned to do another tape, which would be necessary. I return to the fact that the Belgrade-New Sad road is the most burdened road in Serbia. Does that have anything to do with our traffic minister, who I'm asking here what he's up to? I asked that a month ago, the previous speaker asked that, and I ask you to answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1197	Thank you. There is a word from MP Tihomir Marjanovic, and let MP Zoran Kostadinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, when I was talking about the law, I was going to speak and that's my goal, and so I was saying, to improve the quality of this law and to responsibly argue that we, in the municipal government, will always be for co-operation with the Republic Directorate, in order to improve the living conditions of the citizens. We did quite a bit of road network work in the municipality of Pozega. Right now, nothing's good that can't get any better. We've done enough. What I'm about to say is, I'm saying it for the public. What Mr. Todorovic said, that the presidents of the municipalities where he won the SPO paid their mandates, I responsibly argue, and I do not tend to say, as I am, by profession, an educational worker, to lie. This time I have to use that difficult word, because the minister would have to take care of the statements he makes, to measure those statements and that those statements go to the personal integrity of people. That's why I think Mr. Minister, in the future, when making statements, takes care of it because it's a different statement from one MP, and it's a different statement from the minister. So I would ask him to understand that there are also the presidents of the municipalities here, who earned their mandates by the will of the citizens, not by paying. It's an orderly lie.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1199	National MP Todorovic. Just for a little while, it really doesn't make any sense how much we lost in the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1200	What do I do? I need to remind you of a case that happened in England. A man went into one store to steal something through a hole, but only half. The other part couldn't get through. In a court of law, he defended himself not by committing a crime with his whole body, but only by half. Then the court made a very wise decision to condemn only half the body that committed the crime. Approximately, that's the situation with the SPO MPs as well. Your county president admits here and says he paid for it and now you're all saying he didn't pay for it. Discuss this with Vuk Draskovic and Danica Draskovic. Look who paid, when he paid, you'll have all the information. Please don't accuse me of that. That's your party problem, not the problem of this assembly. Unfortunately, I had to tell you because there's still a small number left. Maybe you don't all know that. Now, I hope there's no one in the SPO who doesn't know.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1201	There is a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic, and let the MP Dražimir Marusic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1202	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, our impression is that the Law on Ways in relation to the previous ones is simply acquittal to some obligations which, in previous laws, was required to respect, some procedural ones, meaning, obligations, which, by my deep conviction, made a commitment to certain democracy. So at this point, when the law is released and the congregation controls are released, it also releases these procedural controls, and remember the procedure is the first sign of democracy. Whoever respects the procedure is already a Democrats. Obviously, this law is trying to get out of that procedure. I'll tell you why I answered, especially after Mr. Secretary's speech. In Zaječar, as the bearer of the list, at Electoral Unit 18 Zaječar, I suffered terribly with the SPS, JUL and their coalition partners, because they opened the roads and fixed the roads on Timočka TV. Where'd they get the money just to get those huge machines and those workers. Zajcar is probably the first region to be opened on two sides once. We opened it first in Zajecar, and then all those machines moved to Bor. That's where everyone dressed up nicely, took pictures, promised the people a better future. They must have spent something, because they can't do it without money, and two days after that, nobody can. There's this construction site, there's no people, there's a little bit of crushed corn, some little ruined hare from Zajech to... And then everything fell silent. Not to talk about patching up holes in front of the elections, so what we're looking for here is actually an attempt to make sure that the Roads Directorate has the right to subdue the Socialist Party, or the coalition in power, and that it has whatever it wants. I argue that in Zajecar, based on these couples who came to build roads and repair roads were the most serious financial abuses in the election campaign. I am sorry that this law will be able to fully protect the Socialist Party and its coalition partners and we will never have any insight into how much it is spent on roads, what the quality of these roads is. There's always a huge amount of money out of the people, and so we'll never be clear how and how the Directorate has money that should be used primarily for roads, and it's actually just used for pre-election campaigns and road patching.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1203	There's a word from MP Dražimir Marusic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1204	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, there is indeed a law on the agenda, namely the amendment of the law that needs to be improved, according to the government's understanding and probably in the opinion of experts working on this project, to improve the organisation of landkeeping, road management, or an organisation dealing with planning, planning and building roads in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We unfortunately made this law one political tirade here in terms of choice, accusation and all the things that keep us in the way of failure or less success than we expected in the elections. It really seems a little funny when you're sitting up there somewhere on the top of this room listening to everything that's been said here, behind this pay phone. We need to be aware that the government has proposed a solution that it believes is optimal and that an organisation, an institution that needs to manage Serbia's travel economy, should single out and simply enable it to manage the master's and regional roads in this country according to its profession, science and economic capabilities. As we make them, whether with three strips, whether with more or less holes, quality, it's now some other thing that's out of this law, that's what's called the economic power of this country. Logically, we know how much we've been in sanctions, how much traffic was out of this country, how hard it was to find a mule, or asphalt, since it was an oil derivative, how much we've had a hard time over the past five or six years, and it's a good thing we've kept that potential at the right level, and in the last two years we've really had one expansion. I want to believe, since I am somehow the oldest president of the municipality in Serbia, who is very familiar with all of this, that this cake is really shared in all possible ways, to be fair, because I don't believe it, nor have I ever been present at any meeting that someone shared with the SPS, according to the SPS or any other political party, but simply according to those criteria and possibilities and the leper, which was as much as it is. I want to tell you that we in local self-government have our own problems. I'll just give you the Milanite problem, what they say, that you know. For seven years in Gornji Milanovac, a communal contribution, which we adopted yesterday, has one percentage of which is significant for the roads, and all 63 settlements in Gornji Milanovac have their own contribution to the roads. With such a ticket comes to the Directorate, there are banks and all those who can help build the travel industry. So let's give that cake, let's do it everywhere, not accuse anyone of giving us or not. Just before someone said here, my colleague from Cuckoo, that it wasn't given there. I'm from that county. It's been given there a lot, especially in the last two years. It was given everywhere in Serbia, shared in the Moravia County and all municipalities. The second thing is how much management of municipalities and local directorates were willing to engage in this and simply organise themselves with regard to the collection of local funds, and banking, and the participation of the Republic Directorate. Therefore, one criterion should be known, and from the point of view of the application of this law, I believe that the Government has found one definition that, with the coordination of institutions, or directorship, with the coordination of the Ministry of Transport, especially the Ministry of Civil Engineering, because it is low-building facilities - with one desire and the need to realize that traffic is not something that they say to us in textbooks, but that our economy is slowly catching a step in the world market in the next period, with a good organisation, with certain concessions that we probably have to give to this country - to pull out such a significant branch of economy that our economy is simply slowly catching a step where it belongs. From that point of view, I support the bill, and from another point of view, where more is said, there is still a need to organize a little more in the municipalities and collect that dinar. Remember what I said, the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac is one of the largest places in Serbia and there is almost no place where anything has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1205	Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 164, a total of 181 MPs were present against one, four abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Roads Act in general. For 160, no one against, with 22 abstentions, voted one, a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Roads. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: the proposal for an amending law and the addition of labour protection laws has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments to the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on these amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? (Wish) There is a word from the People's Messenger Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1206	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the Government, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act is a relatively good law from the point of view of implementing the protection measures at work, in order to preserve the working and health skills of employees. This law was meant to protect workers from injury, to prevent professional illnesses, to guarantee the correctness of tools for work, electrical and thundering installations and personal protection equipment. This law should regulate staff training for safe work. I mean, I should, because in practice, it's not like that. I know a lot of disabled workers who haven't been able to get a job for years, and in the meantime, they're doing jobs they shouldn't do for their health. There are also companies that have worked without consent for years and decades, e.g. Fire protection inspections or others. In these cases health is directly threatened, including the lives of employees, who often do not know what kind of danger they are in. Once again, the biggest problem with this law is that it will most likely not be implemented. Why? Because Serbia has a strange phenomenon. Relatively good laws, such as the Labour Protection Act, are not implemented, while others, such as the University Act and the Information Act, and how they are implemented. And how these laws are implemented, however, they are only in one part of Serbia. More specifically, the Information Act is only being implemented on Serbian journalists, quickly, overnight, as in broken courts, judgments are made...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1207	I ask MP Bojana Ristic to talk about the draft law on the agenda. Please don't expand the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1208	So, judgments are made on the basis of this law against certain newspapers, radio and TV stations. On the other side...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1209	I ask the MP to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1210	The government in Kosovo is doing nothing against lists in Albanian, such as "Bujku" and "Koha Ditore", although they openly advocate Kosovo's secession from Serbia and encourage terrorism.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1211	I ask MP Bojana Ristic to stick to the agenda, because I will take your word. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1212	A group of laws, which are not implemented, include many laws in this country. For example, laws, which should guarantee foreign savings, make the state a guarantee of foreign savings.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1213	I ask MP Bojana Ristic to return to the agenda, or I will take your word from you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1214	Here, I'll be right there. You don't respect the laws, by which you're supposed to share pensions on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1215	Please, I take your word from you, MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1216	There is no respect for the Law on the paying of child's allowance in time (a microphone is disabled). Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1217	Please leave the pay phone. You have a public warning that you disobeyed the President's word. Please, you can't get the word, I took your word. Be nice, leave the pay phone. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the truth of the will of this labour protection law should be spoken more honestly, that the Republic of Serbia in these legal regulations is not behind the technologically developed countries in Europe. However, we can see that all legal solutions are agreed on time and that was in 1991 through the additions and amendments of the law, in 1993 twice, then in 1994 and now in 1998. So it's a very good, professional law. The thing is, can the law be applied? It certainly can, but we all need to know that this law, in difficult conditions of submission, requires financial expenditure for certain companies. When you mention business directors or business authorities, these are protection measures, for which extremely large funds should be allocated, and you know that many businesses today are not able to pay for either a warm meal and all those contributions, concerning legal solutions, contributions. For these legal solutions, what is most important is what is written in the first part of the law, means technical protection relating to prevention. This part must be extremely rigorous and it is contained in additions and changes, especially in criminal provisions, where penalties are increased and should certainly be increased. In particular, where economic operators, i.e. persons in charge, do not respect and implement technical protection measures, especially where most of the financial resources are not required. In the first part of the changes were related to imports of these equipment, which must be accompanied by expert and technical documentation. When it is sold from a company, it must be followed by certain technical documentation according to all standards. It remains only disputed in this law whether certain undertakings are in a position to comply with certain legal and sublegal acts and technical regulations at this time with all technical regulations, i.e. to comply with this law. That's the point of this law. The truth is, they're in no condition to ask for certain solutions. We have quality inspectors, and if the inspection works in quality, it can stop some of the plant in the chain of production, but then it should stop the whole production. What to look at, what is greater material damage, stop the drive or wait for the company to stand on its healthy feet and remove the minimum of what is required in that chain. So the point is that. In the absence of money. It is likely that there will also be reflections on whether all these legal conditions can be respected. When the Fire Protection Act is mentioned, it is integratedly relying on all members of the Labour Protection Act. Malta is about one law and members of the law intertwine with each other. The government of the Republic of Serbia has put the procedure back in 1993, 1994, and I believe that the Fire Protection Act, which is extremely important as well as the Labour Protection Act, should enter the assembly procedure and that the law requires certain members to be completed, as amended by the Labour Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1219	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here are the two basic things to point to and on which such solutions should be made, which will no doubt provide protection at work in all places. One is an ecological question, an extremely current question. This is a question that the government and the laws should not follow, but should basically seek and condition that work can only be done where full protection is absolutely provided. It is no accident that in the territory of Serbia we have a whole series of regions where such protection has not been implemented until the end, is not provided, is not controlled. I think these are issues that have far greater meaning than one moment, one environment. In this regard, there are many things that need to be regulated legally and in some ways provided in practice. I'll just tell you, there's a federal regulation passed seven and more months ago, based on which the federal government was obliged to bring in ten sublaws, based on which all of this could be realized. As far as we're concerned, none of these acts have been brought in so far. Therefore, with the coordination of all these things, it must be done quickly, quickly and finally, in order to protect all those people who work primarily in working organizations, and indirectly, if we have protected them, we have also protected all the environments of such objects, where such dangers occur. That's one thing. And another matter of professional nature. In the new provisions, from Article 37 to the end, illegal practices are envisaged to be sanctioned. But it is done in a way that should certainly not be done, because it is said: "Whoever acts contrary to Article 21 will be punished, so the punishment is foreseen." Or, "Whoever does not deliver the proofs of Article 48a within a certain period, shall be punished." Everywhere we want the law to be applied, it's written -- it can't be done, it can't be done, and it's called in brackets to the right member of the law, in this particular case to Article 21. That's how this can be applied. Otherwise, when you write: The fine of 1,500 to 450,000 dinars will be fined for the commercial offence of a legal person if they examine and examine Articles 10, 16a, 18, 22 and so - seven - eight pieces without the prescribed authority. That's not good. I think in that respect we have to start working the opposite way. You have the same provisions, in the same members, where you say, "Point 8 is changing, or you say, new ones are added and said, "Until the authorised company gets the prescribed expert report, and the brackets say, "Article 16a." Thus, in two ways within one member of the law, such a thing is regulated. Please, everyone's writing regulations, they're written by sports organizations, all possible associations, they're all writing regulations. The best regulations must be written by this body, this parliament, the highest body in the Republic. Therefore, if it does not stick to it, if it does not want its acts to be fully clear, it is clear that it cannot be expected in other places.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1221	Anybody else answer for a word? (non-announcer) I'm concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 175, no one against, nine abstentions, two MPs did not vote, 186 present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment, I realize that this amendment has become part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Since the government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Since the government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Since the government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Since the government and the Labour Committee have adopted this amendment, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone else want to talk about this bill? (doesn't want) I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on protection of workers in general. For 172, no one against, 12 abstentions, four did not vote, 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act. We move to item 16 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Independent Obligation of Art or Other Activities in the Area of Culture You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a notice from the Government that Mr Željko Simic, Minister of Culture, is appointed as its representative in the search of the Law proposal. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? (don't want) I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 176, no one against, 6 abstentions, 6 didn't vote, 188 present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Self-implementation of Art or Other Action in the field of culture in general. For 174, no one, with six abstentions, voted five MPs, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Self-fulfilment of artistic or other works in the field of culture. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the law on the law on the law of law and on the rule of law, you have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment, which was submitted by the Legislative Committee to the draft law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Does MP Milan Mikovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? (WHISPERS) He has the word National MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1222	Mr. President, I'd like to point out one thing. Federal law has been passed in this area. However, it is explicitly said in federal law that some things will be regulated by the government of Yugoslavia's special decision. Such a sublegal act has not been brought in. And because it hasn't been brought in, it can't be entirely the applicable Law on Lawyerry and the Service of Legal Help to put itself out of force, until the issue is resolved by the underlaw of the Federal Assembly. The issue is essentially a matter of security of defence in criminal cases. So it's not about the side, it's about the big thing. It is clear that these provisions, which are regulated by federal law, do not apply. Therefore, the only thing that has not been regulated by federal regulations so far - that is why it has been said that the Government of Yugoslavia will do so, and so far it has not been done - so for these reasons it cannot, in my opinion, put the law entirely out of force. At committee meetings, we pointed to the Justice Minister and the Justice Minister took certain measures and interventions on his part, so that the Federal Ministry of Justice would also bring this regulation and thus lead us into a situation so that we could put the Law on Lawyerry into effect in all our provisions. So we're looking for something that's most normal. However, in order to avoid confusion, there were words, one moment, to make the same law or decision that would put aside the Emergency Measures Act, and that law exists in Serbia's territory, although the matter is regulated by the provisions of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Defence Act. And then we were told by the then government that we couldn't put law out of force on emergency measures as long as some issues, which are not regulated by the Defense Act, were not regulated. Now, in one place it's okay, and in another place it's not okay. I think we have to act the same way no matter what the law is. So that's the only reason I've expressed my opposition and I don't think this law should be passed right now. There will be no adverse consequences if we do so at a December session or at one of the next sessions, after the federal justice minister makes that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1223	Are any of the MPs answering for a word? (no) He has the word Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1224	Article 72 point 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. The Federal Constitution in Article 79 provides for the possibility that the republics may transfer their republican powers to the level of the federal state. Both members of the republic did so and, on the basis of such an act, the two republics, the Federal Assembly of May of this year, passed a federal law on lawyership, which entered into force and began to apply on July 14th of this year. So, by applying the federal law, it practically ceased to apply, because we cannot have two laws in the same area, they are partly and different, so in practice there could be problems, especially in the field, with judges and lawyers whether or not the law is in force, which applies, in addition to the indisputable fact that only federal law is in force. The federal law provided in its provisions that Serbia-Montenegro's legal chambers, each for their own territory, would bring so-called. an attorney's fee which determines the fees and benefits for the work of a lawyer. One provision provides that only compensation for the work of lawyers and so on will be paid. Official defenses shall adopt a regulation on this by the competent federal authority. And why it's so done, it's none of our business. However, Serbia only recently, i.e. the Law Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, recently brought its legal tariff, which was published in the latest "Official Journal of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia", and it is normal that the federal minister could not determine the fees for official defences, not having some starting basis for a legal tariff to be determined by the competent legal chambers. I don't think the absence of this act is an obstacle to the adoption of this law in the uncontestable fact that two laws cannot be applied at the same time. And so far, the official defenses of lawyers have always been assessed on the basis of a legal tariff applicable to all defenses. There has never been a particularly regulated issue, nor a otherwise regulated issue of compensation for official defences. Therefore, since the legal tariff for regular defence has been passed, there is no interference until the issue is resolved by law in a different way, and it does not necessarily mean that it will be in a different way, there is no interference that courts are working and applying the applicable legal tariff, as they have done decades ago. Therefore, the absence of the legal act to be adopted by the federal state is not an obstacle to the termination of this law from the Republic's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1225	There's a word from MP Branislav Pomorski.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the newly adopted federal law has resulted in the abolition of the oldest professional association of lawyers in the Balkans. It ceases to exist in the Duke's Bar of Lawyers. Without prejudice to respect for tradition for more than 75 years, the question arises whether the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina....
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1227	Mr. Pomorieski, you're talking about the consequences of federal law, and we're talking about the abolition of the Law on Lawyerry, which was in force in the Republic. Please stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1228	The question arises whether the Autonomous province of Vojvodina must put out all governments this way...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1229	I'm warning you again, it's about breaking the law. Therefore, you know the subject, you can't speak outside the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1230	So, the question is, what's going to happen to the Serbian Matrix, will it become part of...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1231	Mr. Pomorieski, stick to the subject you're talking about. Are any of the people's messengers answering for a word? (Nicho) I'm concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 147, 28 is against, no one abstention, 6 did not vote, 181 MP is present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Does anyone else want to talk about this bill? (Nicho) I am concluding the search of the draft law in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on Lawyerry and Legal Assistance in general. For 148, 31 against, no one abstentioned, seven MPs voted. A total of 186 MPs are present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the termination of the Law on Lawyerry and Legal Assistance. We move on to the 18th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF ARCHIVE CITY OF EXTERNAL SIGNANCE THAT IS KEEPING IN ARCHIVES The proposal for a Decision has been adopted, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which considers that the motion for a decision can be accepted. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1232	You've read all of this, just like me, and you've seen the government suggest that we make a decision that determines that culturally well is of the utmost importance of archival structure, so now everything is listed among other things: "The City of the Union of Socialist Youth of Serbia, the Republic Conference from 1964 to 1990." I don't think it can and should be on the cultural well-being list of exceptional importance for this country. The other thing is, if it's political organizations, their critical-time materials, from time to time that can be used for such a thing. But the youth material from 1964 to 1990, one political party, I'm afraid, will lead us to tomorrow all of our materials, all of our relevant political parties, put into this and consider it all to be culturally beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1233	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1234	I, although I prefer to listen to Mr. Mikovic in the National Assembly, am truly very surprised this time by his performance. The meaning of keeping an archive building is not in its subsequent public proof, but in helping all historians, researchers of the past, who want to brighten up one period of our history from all sides. It's about a political organization when we had a one-party system. The archive construction of the Union of Communists is being kept. How in 30 years someone will investigate a system of work within the Union of Communists, a way of making decisions, if there is no archival structure, how they will investigate one of the Union of Communists' transmissions, so in the theory it is called - the Socialist Union, the Alliance of Socialist Youth, the Union of Unions, the Union of Fighters, etc. They were all transmissions. And the Constitution regulates the transmissions. They were all constitutional factors. There was no law on political parties and social organisations. The constitution defined what organizations they were. That's why they're being guarded, and this law of ours doesn't say that only beautiful archival structure is being kept or just ugly. All archival structures are being guarded, and then historians will evaluate what was beautiful in our history, and what wasn't nice, will also give valuable courts based on scientific and professional facts. And this law does not contain any valuable vessels. He only contains facts. There was this, and it was a constitutional factor, it was a state factor, and it had to be kept. He must be careful to help someone in the future in scientific research. That's the basic sense of keeping an archive building.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1235	Thank you. National MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1236	I don't usually waver with my attitudes and other people's attitudes. I'm not talking about whether this belongs to an archival structure. It's all part of the archival structure. But here there is a difference between the archival structure and the work of the archival building, which qualify as a cultural good of exceptional importance for this country. So it's true that it's an archival structure. And it's all archival and all that's there, and it can be included, and every note can use something at some point. But part of the archival building here stands out and qualify as a cultural good of exceptional importance. And that's not the answer, which is why we qualify this as a cultural good of exceptional importance.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1237	There is no need to argue, because the Assembly will make a decision as necessary. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1238	Okay, Mr. Mikovic is giving up on himself. That's very nice, but he should have done it a lot sooner. Why this is motivated by the law on the preservation of archival building. Because it's especially important. It's a constitutional factor, an organisation founded by the Constitution. Directly by the Constitution. There's no other formulation here. Culture covers everything, and science, and education, and everyday work and life, it's all a culture in the broad sense of words. It is preserved as a cultural good, kept as a document without which there is no quality scientific work in the future. There is no one who can write a good critical historical study about the Alliance of Communists without investigating the Alliance of Socialist Youth. It's impossible. Well, there's someone among us who deals with science, and there's not just those who take on privileges. How can it be explored by the Union of Communists from 1945 to 90 if a youth organization is not explored as well? It's not possible. That's why you're keeping this special. So the conservation measures are higher than those of the classic measures of saving the archive building, there's a obligation to keep some archival structure for five years, let's say 10 years, let's say 20 years, who knows how many, it doesn't matter how much we get into that. There is one part of the archive structure that must be kept indefinitely. And take good care of it. And this is a legal formulation covering this particular concern of one part of the archival structure, without any ideological connotation. You'd say now, it's ugly, we don't want to keep it. This is how the German state preserves the archival structure of Hitler-Yugen. They'll protect her and keep her as a treasure because without it, there's no research on Hitler's regime. It's impossible. So, something that's blackest, worst, worst, but it has to be kept with the greatest attention, with the greatest care, because without it, one period of the past cannot be illuminated.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1239	Thank you. There's a word from the People's Messenger, Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope this archive of the Communist Party finds a request from Mr. Seselj for admission to the Union of Communists. The application is written on 99 densely typed pages, and there may be copies of the Youth News List of the organisation's official paper in the archives of the Alliance of Socialist Youth. In 1982, Mr. Vojislav Seselj gave an interview to the journalist at the time...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1241	Mr. Chotric, I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1242	Here, I'll get on the subject. And to the question of Mr Draskovic, what is by nationality, Vojislav Seselj answered "Yugosloven" (Vojislav Seselj - yes, so, "Yugosloven"). That's exactly how you can very easily check it out. But let me get to the subject on the agenda. We adopted the Labour Protection Act today, but I must say that my party's parliamentary club SPO expresses regret that there is no means in the republic's budget to hire paid educators and educators to teach some MPs by polite conduct, and to the god and ministers of the Serbian Radical Party. I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1243	Please, it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1244	Let me just finish my sentence. Therefore, when it comes to particularly difficult cases of primitives, it also means that competent medical experts are paid out of these funds. So, in support of the motion for a decision on archival construction, we suggest that the statements of the president of the Serbian Radical Party and of the vice-president of the Republic government of Mr. Seselj, as these will be very valuable to some future researchers and future historians for the study of politics, above all the swings and the sale of fog to people, colorful lies....
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1245	Mr. Chotric, please, you've come out of the agenda. Leave it for another chance. (Employer Chotriæ continues to speak.) Please, I will be forced to take away your word. Don't talk about the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1246	I'm talking about the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1247	Please don't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1248	I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1249	It's my right to assess whether you're talking about the agenda point or not.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1250	Here, I haven't spoken for more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1251	No, I can't let you keep talking unless you're talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1252	Here, I'm talking. For example, Seselj spoke yesterday about, as he said...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1253	Mr. Chotric, you have no more words. (Employee Chotric continues to discuss. I took your word. Leave the pay phone, please. Mr. Chotric, please, you have a warning. I give you a second warning. Next, please, away from the O.R. (Employee Čotric continues to discuss. I took away your word and be kind and leave the pay phone. You promised three times you'd do it and you didn't. Please leave the pay phone. (Employer Chotriæ did not leave the pay phone.) Please, pause, continue at 2.30 p.m. (P a u s a) I suggest we get back to work. You have been given a decision by the Central Country Administration of the Serbian Radical Party on the exclusion and termination of membership in the Serbian Radical Party by Prof. Dr. Veselin Trajkovic and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the consideration of this decision, with the proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102, paragraph 1. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Prof. Veselin Trajkovic, on the date of exclusion and termination of membership in the Serbian Radical Party. Consistent with Article 102. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before he was elected, to the National MP Prof. Dr. Veselin Trajkovic, elected from the Election List of the Serbian Radical Party - Dr. Vojislav Seselj, in Election Unit 28 - Pristina, on the day of exclusion and termination of membership in the Serbian Radical Party. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We are going back to the debate on the previous draft decision. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Renewal Movement at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like you to take this into account. If it is true that the archives of the Alliance of Socialist Youth are culturally good of exceptional significance, then they are also "The Great Serbia" and "The Zemun newspaper", which are free of charge in the millions of circulations across Serbia, on which the printing is spent by tens of millions of marks. This was an attempt to suggest and explain Mr. Chotric, but you did not allow him to do so, Mr. President. The archiving of "The Great Serbia" and "The Earth News" will help future historians to answer the question in which one party, from a programme for large Serbia, which will border with big Germany, has reached the requirement for small Serbia to drown in a renewed Soviet Union. As a result, it is not important to archive these documents because they are certainly no less important than the archives of the socialist youth. Mr. President, if you allow MPs and ministers from the Serbian Radical Party to slander and insult the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement in the future, while preventing our MPs from responding and defending themselves, the Serbian Movement MPs' club will consider the purpose of their sitting in this hall under such circumstances.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1256	There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1257	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I want to fully support Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj's proposal, and I don't think it should be a question of whether the documents, which were here, are cultural goods or not. Culture explained in the way Mr. Vice President did, and it is what we are talking about, above all, the culture of political dialogue, political culture in general, so that every document is of great importance to all of us, and especially to those who come after us. However, I would be free to put a few more well-intentioned remarks in terms of expanding all this. What Mr. Mikovic has now said about the issues of certain newspapers that are shared in millions of circulations should be done even further, thank God that if something is shared in the million-dollar circulation, it is culturally good and in the label of one time. It's really not a bit controversial. We from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are extremely interested in solving this in the best possible way, because 206 calls the archives in our material, 142 are from Vojvodina or 68.92%, from Serbia 53 and 25.73%, and from Kosovo only 11 or 5.34%. I don't think it's done enough to find more archives in Serbia, I mean geographical Serbia, not administrative, and I don't think it's done enough to protect as much as possible, especially the historical heritage of the state we live in. The archives must be carefully guarded, for we have one terrible experience in history that during each shift the first thing was to burn the archives. With such a practice, it must be interrupted and more attention should be paid to the fact that future generations and the court of history have measurement documents, that they have documents on which they will be able to judge us objectively, and that does not mean, of course, that the records of these archives should be removed from secret meetings, where we need to find out who agreed, even if they were our descendants who would be informed about it, to find out what obligations we have made, etc., that the archives do not leave only the haired documents, as was often the case, but that they remain truly true evidence of the time in which we live. The archive should be carefully guarded, because it is the basis for the court of history, and I mean not only history, but also other courts, because here all courts will have a lot of work to do. In any case, I would end up with the following words - Vojvodina, which has 68.92% of the title, and its archives come back from a long time ago in 1699, has shown that it is able to store the archives of this country and I suggest that there be a way to find a way for this job, which has been responsible for all these centuries, to continue and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1258	There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1259	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought there would be few words about the initiative submitted on the Committee on Culture and Information, and this initiative includes that, as I see here where the archives of the Serbian Orthodox Church are kept, it is primarily the archives of the Serbian Orthodox Church that return to the Serbian Orthodox Church. The archive was taken after World War II from the National Security Authority and until today's Serbian Orthodox Church, for others I don't know, has not been returned. We will come from this that this law wants to regulate these relations and if it really wants to, then that archive should actually be returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church. I'll tell you by my guess why it's not returned. There's a period in our history, and it's months September and October 1944, and that's when the most victims of the new government fell. Some descendants, who wanted to clarify why their parents suffered in September or October 1944, although the injuries were later, but some military courts were made, received both from the Serbian Archives and the Supreme Court data that they did not know about these courts, for military districts from that period, from those two months. That's when the highest number of victims fell. It would be interesting to link it exactly to the archives of the Serbian Orthodox Church, because at the time, the Serbian Orthodox Church kept data on the born, dead, married, and it was not the local offices, but it was all done in the church. So it's a very serious piece of work that would brighten up a period of total darkness with us. There is no reason for you from the Socialist Party, the Radical Party and the Left Coalition to oppose it. It's one period where actors are mostly on one side and on the other, already out of reach of the law, they're in God's hands, but it would be very good to find out the truth one day, so that the truth doesn't happen again. We from the Serbian Renewal Movement have therefore proposed to the Committee that the archives be returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church, in order to shed light on the period. Otherwise, all these archives, for these two critical months, are mostly either in private or in some document in some historical archive. To praise is the historical archive in Zaječar which keeps several posts, and since I have seen two posts, I can show you when necessary. There are about 60 people over whom the death penalty was executed. So, on every log out, there's so much and so much. It was approximately the working effect of a single night’s liquidator battalion on the Queen in Zaječar. If we don't make it right, believe me, history will repeat itself. I see no reason for Serbia to re-enter such conflicts. I therefore propose that the Assembly take a position to even allocate funds to the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and to dedicate a team of scientists to this period for a period of time to find out what happened then and where. I again urge you to return the archive and documents to the Serbian Orthodox Church, which the state security took at the end of 1944 and in early 1945.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-18-0.u1260	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I am concluding a unique search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the establishment of an archival building of exceptional importance, which is kept in archives. For 138, against two, 27 abstained, not three voted, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on the establishment of an archival structure of exceptional importance, which is kept in archives. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: – The proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do any of the messengers of the people want a word? (No) Since no one is answering my word, I'm concluding a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 154, no one, with nine abstention, voted four, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 20th point of the agenda: – SALANICAL QUESTION Just a few warnings. I ask the MPs not to leave the assembly hall, for oral questions must be given before the quorum, and written questions can be delivered beyond that. The emissaries are leaving the O.R. I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units, to see how many are present. Fewer MPs are present. No vote on parliamentary issues, but it's the agenda. Questions can be asked in writing, and then there's no need to be a quorum. But when spoken in front of the Parliament, it should be a quorum. I have three MPs so far reported, these are Bojana Ristic, Nikola Jovanovic and Dr Nevena Petkovic. I ask you to send written questions to the government or to postpone it for the next session. Suggest that at the next session it should be classified as the first item of the agenda. The session is over. I'm sorry, we'll continue next time. I'll see you in December.
