ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u965	I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 205 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum, please place the cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I hereby inform the National Assembly that I have granted my leave to the following MPs: New Lazla and Karola Kasash. I would like to inform the National Assembly that the meetings were called to be attended by the President, Vice-President and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 20 October 1998. Any objections to the record? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 20 October 1998. For 193, no one against, five abstentions, voted 13, a total of 211 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 20 October 1998, without objections. You have been given the resignation of Milorad Vucelic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the consideration of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 102, item 1 point 2. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Milorad Vucelic on the day of his resignation. Consistent with Article 102. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before the end of the time on which it was elected MP Milorad Vucelic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic in Electoral Unit 8 - Sombor. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic proposed that the draft law on the termination of the Security Act for the regular and safe conduct of railway traffic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 November 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards into the MPs' units to establish the quorum. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Neboja Lekovic to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the termination of the law on the provision of funds for the regular and safe conduct of rail traffic. For 31, against 160, four abstentions, 40 did not vote, a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic proposed that the draft law on the national capitalisation of the "Stava" Development Programme, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 November 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Neboja Lekovic to consider, following an urgent procedure, the proposal for a bill on the national capitalisation of the "Stave" Development Programme. The proposal was voted by 38 MPs, against 169, three abstentions, nine did not vote, with 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. An emissary from the O.R. is asking for a word. ) No, be kind, sit down, when we determine the agenda then advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group has proposed that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal by the Socialist Party Group of Serbia to supplement this session's agenda agenda item Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 176, against 19, 10 abstentions, 13 did not vote, a total of 218 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic, suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by the agenda item Proposal for the resolution of the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the election of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does a representative of the government want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to supplement the agenda of this session on the agenda of the proposal for the resolution of the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the election of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 158, 17 against, 15 abstention, 23 did not vote, a total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group has proposed that the agenda of this session be extended to the agenda -- the parliamentary issues. Does the proposal's representative, MP Milan Mikovic, the president of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group want the word? He doesn't want to. ) I ask the MPs to put cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the SPO parliamentary group's proposal to extend this session's agenda to the agenda's agenda - the parliamentary issues. For 101, against 63, one abstention, 47 did not vote, a total of 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be entered in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal or acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts, committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports or opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 197, three against, nine abstentions, 16 did not vote, a total of 225 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 as a whole. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic has advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u966	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the violation of the Rules of Procedure refers to Rule 89. The proposed amendments and additions to the agenda shall be subject to a search in which only the proposer of the said agenda, or the authorised representative of the proposer, of the act to which the change relates, or the authorised representative of the act promoters, may take part. I think as a law enforcement officer, I had the right to propose an emergency procedure. I don't see why you gave everyone else your word, and you didn't. Secondly, you read the wrong order of the law. The law on suspending the 3 per cent railway is a proverbial solution to the Law on People's recapitalisation. But now that the agenda was adopted, there would be no point in discussing it, but I would just like to say that the idea in the National Capitalisation Act was that the 3%, which so far has been given to the railway company since January 1st. Because we think that the development problems of the flag are nothing less than the problems the railways face, with the difference here to make the citizens of the 3% owners, or shareholders of the funds allocated to taxes...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u967	Mr. Lekovic, please, this agenda item has not been adopted and don't explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u968	It's obvious the Rules of Procedure is blocking her this time.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u969	Only the Assembly can decide that.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u970	Thank you. It's pointless to argue now, though.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u971	Thank you. Just to remind you that when determining by emergency procedure the arguments are given in writing and in writing. You've all got those texts. Therefore, when the congregation accepts this, it does not need to be further explained by the speaker. In other proposals, we have always allowed for further explanations. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – CHOICE AND DETERMINATION OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS Within this point you have received: 1. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the number of judges and judges in the courts, which was submitted by the Ministry of Justice, 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial office of judges of general jurisdiction and of economic courts, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 4. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Judge of the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica and the Judges of Jurisdiction in the Court of Justice in Pristina, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 5. Proposal for a decision on the discharge from the office of the President of the High Court of Commerce, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration, 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 7. A Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Judges and Presidents of District and Municipal Courts, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, 9. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges of municipal courts in Arangelovac, Vučitrn, Kragujevac, Kraljevci, Novi Sad and Presevo, and the Business Court in Kragujevac, submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration. You also received a notice from the Republic Public Prosecutor to withdraw all proposals for the selection of public prosecutors. In addition, you have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the number of judges and judges in courts. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single inquiry into the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the number of judges and judges in the courts. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No. Do any of the MPs want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u972	Dear President, honourable MPs, I have no objection to the proposal of the Justice Committee. However, I have an objection as proposed. In fact, the structure of the population in municipalities is never taken into account, so that judges and judges are proposed in this way. So today in the courts of Presevo, Bujanovac, we have quite a small number of Albanian people, so since he has proposed that the number of judges be increased by courts, and this applies to Bujanovac, I ask you to respect this remark and keep in mind, because the Constitution and Serbia and Yugoslavia provide for the use and language of ethnicity, bilingualism. I don't know how the courts will work with the parties, run a court case, if the judges don't know the language of the peoples.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u973	Thank you. There's a word from the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u974	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's easy to go over what's going on here for the simple reason that this shift story and change the judge just keeps rounding up the system that needs to lead this country into the ugliest dictatorship and the worst darkness. So I'd like to draw attention to yesterday's ban on printing newspapers from the Ministry of Information.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u975	Please, here is the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the number of judges... Please don't expand the discussion to other topics.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u976	It is not an enlargement of the subject, but a question of extending the number of judges, as it is obvious, it is probably about the ban that follows, such as a ban on driving a car with Montenegrin plates, it is again being obtained, Serbia is being secededed from Yugoslavia again. I mean, when it comes to Kosovo, you control 50%...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u977	Mr. Canak, please don't use the pay phone for political speeches. There's a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u978	Since I am the chairman of the Justice Committee, let me say that the Committee had in mind, when choosing judges, above all, quality and expertise, and it was also considered national representation and, in particular, in Sandzak, where we have proposed that this assembly be elected by Nurija Rožajca. We know this country must...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u979	Please, it's about the decision on the number of judges... Don't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u980	The cause is likely that they did not report to the competition when it comes to Albanian ethnicity. Otherwise, if there are such cases and if people are good quality and have good results, none of them will be left behind and there will be no reason not to choose.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u981	Do any more of the people's messengers answer for a word? (No one) Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving on to a decision. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the motion to amend the decision on the number of judges and jury judges in the courts. For 184 MPs, against 18, 15 was abstentioned, and 13 MPs did not vote. A total of 230 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the selection and resolution of judicial officers be subject to a single search, with the fact that the National Custodial on each proposal is particularly clear. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. So there's no confusion, we're voting on this proposal. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 172, 8 against, 12 abstentions, and 27 MPs did not vote. A total of 290 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes, this proposal. In agreement with Article 156, I am opening a single search on the proposals for decisions on the election and resolution of judicial officials. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? There is a word from MP Milan Mikovic, head of the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u982	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for a few days we have been carefully trying to assess the candidates who have applied and should be elected to these judicial functions. Today we do it in part because the Republic Public Prosecutor found that his proposal still cannot be complete and that there are serious reasons why today, in this situation, cannot finally be decided. I'd say, first of all, a few things. The courts are independent, according to the Constitution, judges are independent and we must, it is our primary job and task to enable them to perform their duties in this way and thus protect freedom and the right of citizens. In such a situation, we faced the fact that in several places there have been misunderstandings and different views on who in the best possible way could satisfy the call of the judge and, doubtless, the person who has great rights and great authority to make decisions that depend on the fate of families and people of individuals. So that we don't stay, because we're all standing in that position and we can't step down from it, I'd like to make our name a few suggestions so that one number of candidates offered doesn't get elected. First of all, it is a new proposal for the new President of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. This is Mrs. Aregina, who was proposed, as we managed to hear, at the last moment, because during the last day, the proposal arrived, and which was the only candidate. I don't think that a procedure has been conducted in this respect as it should, because most of the judges of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, who were the only ones who had the right to compete for the place, did not know and was not aware that Mr. Spacious Cedomir, the former president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, should be elected President of the Higher Economic Court in Belgrade. And in such a situation, we faced the fact that we were told there was only one candidate. A few months ago, a competition was launched for the same place, and then there were five candidates who applied to the competition. In fact, in the election of the president, and there is no competition, in fact, one person can be chosen as president, but, if nothing else, there must be at least a notification to each of these judges that they can apply for something like this. The business court in Belgrade is not an irrelevant court. I fear that one of the most important things in our justice system is because it decides on the largest number of disputes, on the most difficult disputes, because it is about everything that is happening in Belgrade and the environment, and they leave it to workers not only of certain businesses, but also of a large number of consequences, sometimes and of serious consequences, and in such a situation it is extremely important and who will be at the head of that court. I have to tell you that last time we had this information, that the judges of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade have been consulted, and that 50 of them or I don't know how many of them were there, all two judges have pleaded for this person now proposed for the president of that court. Therefore, the situation was so, we were faced with the fact that at that time a temporary solution was sought to Mr. Spacious. In this situation, I ask you to seriously consider this issue. I ask you to assess whether or not we can choose a candidate who has been in the judiciary since 1992, an associate of the Court of Commerce since 1994. Obviously, by the number of years, even in our experience in this case, we would not meet the criteria we are looking for both in municipal courts and where there are far smaller powers of the President of the Court. Despite this proposal not to elect this candidate, because that is all we can suggest, we cannot propose a new candidate, we challenge Mr Desimir Milenkovic's election as President of the Municipality Court in Jagodina, we have talked about him before, Mr Radomir Gojkovic for the President of the District Court in Peća, Mrs Bojana Trboljevac for the President of the Court of Justice Leposavic, Mr Milorad Antic for the President of Gjilan, then for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Požega Mr Varničić and for two candidates at the District Court in Pozarevec, I have no names at this time - Mrs Arizanović and Mrs Miljević. I'll tell you why right now. For the three presidents in Kosovo, they have far better candidates than those proposed. We can't choose another one, we can choose this one or we can't choose him. The Assembly can't decide instead - it'll be someone else. For these reasons, I suggest that there are better candidates by the results, if you will, we can quote and read the results, but I'm afraid we don't have the time for that in 10 minutes for how long I've been left. Thus, compared to Mr Antic of Gjilan, there have been speeches here before, and in that court they have declared that there are five candidates for such a one-function, equal to five candidates -- so are the proposals. However, Mr. Antic, not getting involved in anything else, needs to be in the post of elders, where he was once an elder, in which his brother is a public prosecutor, in which his godfather is a municipal public prosecutor and for these reasons there are reservations whether the circle of relatives should be extended to the most responsible functions there. For Mr Varničić of Požega, after having considered everything about the Justice Committee, there were some data, some subsequent data, which the Committee did not have in mind, which concerned the situation regarding Mr Varničić and the performance of his duties, I believe that he is in the municipality, in respect of which criminal proceedings were conducted. And another particular question -- who are these two candidates from the Fireman? It is proposed that Ms. Milica Arizanovic, judge, I read her result to you: in three years there are 50% confirmed decisions and 40% abolished decisions, as well as 9% of amended decisions. So 50% is what the result of her work is. There is another candidate, whose results we have read, which we have pointed to on the Committee, who has 71% confirmed decisions and 24% of the decisions that have been lifted. It's the Savik Mirjana. (At the remarks of Minister Stojiljkovic) That is our proposal, at this point that is my proposal. So in a situation like this, we can make a little difference -- if one minute it's a little bit better or a little weaker, but right now that difference is too big. It's about selecting judges for the District Court, therefore, in many ways a court that once makes a final decision. We've challenged two personalities here. One is Mrs. Arizanovic and the other is Ms. Danica Miljevic. (The President reminds the speaker that time has passed) Here, I conclude, Danica Miljevic has only worked in court as an intern and expert associate and since 1981 she has been in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that when it comes to the second-degree court in a procedure like this, obviously for someone who comes from another profession as a rule has never been preferred by such a candidate before, and such a candidate has chosen. For these reasons, I would ask that we vote individually on all the disputed candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u983	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u984	Ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, a session of the Committee on Justice held on Friday (November 13th) as part of preparations for the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This committee has tabled proposals for the appointment of a number of judges and presidents of municipal and district courts in the Republic. Four candidates were proposed, they participated in the competition. These are Mr. Janićijevic, Mr. Filipovic, Mr. Dražović and Mr. Cvetkovic. It's about Gornji Milanovac. So far, the acting head of the municipal court in Gornji Milanovac, Mr Janicevic, has been proposed in the meantime by this committee for the District Court judge in Cačka. This created space and showed the need to appoint a new President of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. Of the three remaining candidates who participated in the competition, which is Mr Filipovic, Mr Dražovic and Mr Cvetkovic, the Justice Committee has been defined as Mr Milisav Cvetkovic, the current judge of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. The proposal to postpone this decision for Monday 16 November and to re-evaluate all the references of individual candidates, which are important for the appointment to this function and its performance, was rejected with the reason that the decision to appoint the President of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac was long cooked and will be done as agreed. Since the President of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac enjoys strong support for the SPS and the JUL, as he has done his work so far, and especially by acting as the president of the Municipal Election Commission has done all he can to ensure that the results, which these two political parties have achieved in the past elections, are as good as possible. The other parameters, which should affect the adoption of a proposal for appointment to this important function, seem not to have been crucial for most members of the Committee, which are representatives of the SPS, JUL and the Serbian Radical Party. According to our programme principles, and I mean according to the programme principles of political parties, the judiciary is a profession, not a policy. Professionality and honesty must be the only criteria on which judges, public prosecutors and public defenders will be appointed. Local authorities or any political organisation must not decide or influence whether a judge, public prosecutor or a lawyer will be appointed or relieved of his duties, denied of progress or transferred before the law of a given time. All courts and prosecutors must be absolutely independent and independent in decision-making, within the limits that are only constitutional, law, security and honesty. I propose, therefore, that we do not choose today's candidate, Mr. Milisav Cvetkovic, because there are better candidates in the Municipality Court of Gornji Milanovac, some of whom have contributed greatly to helping the courts in Kosovo, whose results are at least as good as the gentleman mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u985	Thank you. There's a word from MP Rankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u986	Dear MPs, we in Sapac have remarks about the election proposal for municipal judge Slobodan Velisavljevic, because candidate Dragan Jakovljevic, a longtime municipal judge with experience, was also a candidate. And the proposed Slobodan Velisavljevic was the deputy Public Prosecutor and has no experience whatsoever. So, only the profession works, not maybe the politics, like you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u987	Thank you. Once again, the People's Messenger, Kasa Joseph.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u988	You'd better throw before I start the discussion, so I can get into a conversation. Gentlemen, at one of the last meetings of Skuština, I have said that ethnic cleansing is being done in the area where the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians works. I supported that with a few facts. I may have gone a little too far with Mr. Curtis, and that's why I apologize to him so publicly. However, in all other parts I remain on the claim, and today the case absolutely confirms it. A number of candidates are proposed to elect three judges, and neither of them by any chance knows how to speak Hungarian, let alone Hungarian. We have made a proposal to Mr. Justice Minister for Election Josic Melinda, who at least knows how to speak and to conduct the procedure in Hungarian as well. And the answer was, "Don't worry, we'll give you an interpreter." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u989	Thank you. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a unique search and we are moving on to a decision. Since a number of proposals by the Committee on Justice and Administration have been challenged during the search, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. Before deciding on the disputed candidates, I ask the MPs to put their cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Milen Aregin as President of the Court of Commerce. For 161, against 51, abstention one, three were not voted, a total of 216 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milena Arezina as president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade by majority vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Desimir Milenkovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Municipal Court in Jagodina. For 162 against 50, two abstentions were held, six were not voted, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Desimir Milenkovic as the President of the Municipality Court in Jagodina most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Bojan Trbojevac, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Municipal Court in Leposavic. For 163, against 52, one abstained, not five voted, a total of 221 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen by majority vote Bojana Trbojevac as the president of the Municipality's court in Leposavic. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Milorad Antic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Municipal Court in Gjilan. For 160, against 52, the abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen by majority of votes Milorad Antic as the president of the Gjilan Municipal Court. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Radomir Gojkovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the District Court in Peća. For 158, against 52, the abstentioned one, not 9 voted, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Radomir Gojkovic to be the president of the district court in Peća, most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Josip Varnicic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge of the Municipal Court in Požega. For 156, against 50, with three abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 218 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Josip Varnicic as the judge of the Municipal Court in Požega most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Milica Arizanovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge of the District Court in Pozarevc. For 157, against 49, with three abstentions, it did not vote 8, a total of 217 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Milica Arizanovic as the judge of the District Court in Pozharevec most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Milislav Cvetkovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. For 154, against 53, the abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Milislav Cvetkovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Danica Miljevic, whose candidacy has been challenged as judge of the District Court in Pozarevec. For 158, against 49, with three abstentions, 10 were not voted, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Danica Miljevic as judge of the District Court in Pozharevec most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Slobodan Velisavljevic as the judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 164, against 50, the abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 223 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Slobodan Velisavljevic as the judge of the District Court in Šapec most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Krsto Knezevic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Subotica. For 164, against 52, with three abstentions, not five, a total of 224 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Cross of the Dukes to judge the Municipal Court in Subotica most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Corina Lecic as Judge of the District Court in Subotica. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. End of vote. For 164, against 49, with two abstentions, four were not voted, a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Korina Lecic to judge the District Court in Subotica most of the votes. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Sanja Tonkovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Subotica. For 167, against 47, with four abstentions, four were not voted, a total of 222 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly chose Sanja Tonkovic to judge the Municipal Court in Subotica most of the votes. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 170, 6 against, abstention 30, 10 did not vote, a total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move on to the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards into the MPs' units to establish the quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 175.6 versus, 29 abstentions, there was no 9.219 present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to relieve the judge of the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica and a jury judge in Pristina's Privred Court. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 174, against four, 29 abstentions, 13 did not vote, 220 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the discharge from the office of the President of the High Court of Commerce. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 172, against three, abstentioned 37, five did not vote, a total of 217 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am taking the opportunity to thank the former president, or former President of the Senior Court of Commerce, Jezimir Mitrovica for his co-operation. I wish him a pleasant retirement. We move to a vote on the proposal for a decision on the election of Serbian Supreme Court judges. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 168, against 10, 24 abstentions, 16 did not vote, 218 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of judges and presidents of district and municipal courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 170, against 9, it abstained 29, five did not vote, 213 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 168, 14 against, 19 abstention, 11 did not vote, a total of 212 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of municipal courts in Arangelovac, Vučitrn, Kragujevac, Kraljev, Novi Sad and Presevo and the Business Court in Kragujevac. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 165, against 11, abstention 19, 14 did not vote, 209 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the motion for a decision. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the newly elected holders of judicial functions in the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. We move to agenda 2nd point: - Proposal for the Law on the Transport of Immobilities You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Slobodan Nenadovic, Zoran Nikolic, Milan Mikovic and Istvan Ispanovic and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. National MP Zoran Nikolic resigned at a session of the Legislative Committee on Amendments he submitted to the bill. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Does MP Milan Mikovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? (WHISPERS) The word has a National MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u990	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there is something in this bill that should be commended. It is to be commended that the right to prevent buying in favour of the state, in favour of the municipality, in favour of what the state represented in the broadest sense of the word, and it is certain that it is a good thing. But on the other hand, there are a lot of objections, and we've tried some amendments to fix it, to make it right. However, we see that the government has taken the view that these amendments or the gross amendments should not be accepted, and in the same way our Finance Committee has been appointed. We have to point out in this situation. This is a thing that belongs to classical civil law. It's a serious thing. These are the foundations in one area, it's property and transfer property. Therefore, in this respect, we cannot and should not be able to go over all of this in one way and not only to consult with the Faculty of Law, not only with law schools, with people who do this work, we should fail to consult our courts, with the Supreme Court and all others, because let us, this is not about one temporary solution and temporary solutions, this is about permanent solutions, this is about such institutions as a state institution, which we are absolutely interpreting in the opposite way that this is about in the world. Thus, in addition to political views, political desires are very important for us to treat this issue as an extremely professional and extremely important issue. It is that MPs and the Assembly should be made known about how solutions in practice should look, but how they will be formulated, in this respect really cannot be handled in a layman's way here, defined in a layman's way and adopted in a layman's way by a regulation in this area. If it were essentially accepted, not only did I give it, but others that have given it, changes to all of this, then we would have one law, to say, how good, I can't say that I'm professional in that area that I can write good laws myself, none of us are like that, but with the help of no doubt those who understand it, who want and who want us to do something in this country that is identical to what exists in the whole world, with our specificities, for which we have defined ourselves. We've limited ourselves here to two things in terms of a buy-in obstacle. One thing, it's a question of co-owners, which may not be the case. The other thing is the sale of agricultural land, which can come to a serious assessment of whether we want it or not. For these reasons, it is obvious that we will define our view of this law on the basis of how this congregation will identify itself in terms of new, better, in our opinion, the solutions offered in the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u991	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Nikolic, chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u992	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I'd like to say a few words about the law. The Legislative Committee adopted the proposal for a law on the transport of immovable property. The Legislative Committee also considered all amendments to the proposal for this law. And I must say that all applicants of the amendments have indeed made an effort to make all the amendments they have submitted to the agreed Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the legal system, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and to assess whether they will be accepted or not. I would like to say, first of all, what is known to all of you, that the immobility at all, and especially their traffic is of particular importance to each country and to ours, and that this law that we are considering today is very important and that from the aspect of a final break-up with an economic system based on the 1974 Constitution and from the aspect of the development of future relations in this very important area. This law is in full compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the legal system. I would like to remind you that the previous law in this area, still valid, was passed in 1981, where it suffered some nine amendments and additions, and that this new law has only 21 members, and it also states in its form that this government, and hopefully the National Assembly, has, after its adoption, defined itself as deregulation of relations in this area, fully affirming the principle of freedom of movement and as one of the fundamental principles of economic relations declared in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This principle of freedom of movement is consistent with the principle of freedom of disposal of the owner, and the restrictions are only laid down by law only in the case of the contractor's interest or in the general interest. I would like to refer only to two provisions of this law from which it can be seen in which it is progressive in relation to the solutions we have so far. The first refers to provisions on the right to prevent purchases and, in particular, to prevent purchases established in the area of transport of agricultural land, where the right to prevent purchase is conditional on the benefit of the owner of neighbouring land. I will remind you that we have so far established this right by law in favour of the first organisation dealing with agricultural production, and then the agricultural cooperatives in the territory of the municipality where there is real estate that is being sold, and then the municipality on which the immovableity is located and ultimately the neighbouring owner. We think that this measure, which is in line with all the changes that we have received from the new constitution and how it means to build up land in the individual sector, and that this measure, in line with those measures that the Government is taking and which will take in the area of agricultural production, will make agricultural production more rational and efficient. And I would like to refer to Article 11, which speaks of the futility of the immovable transport contract concluded under the conditions of pressure and violence, i.e. under the conditions and circumstances in which it was threatened, or the safety of people, property, the achievement and protection of freedom, rights and the duties of citizens, the legality and equality of citizens were not ensured. I think this provision itself says how much this state is determined to stand in line with everything it does in the way of pressures and violence, which have been present for us in some periods as a method to extort a number of fixed-state transport contracts and as such were one of the main factors for evicting the population from Kosovo and Metohija from the end of World War II to the 1980s. All in all, this law is progressive, is modern, provides full freedom. I think he found the right measure between the principle of freedom of movement and equal protection of all property forms and therefore deserves full support from the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u993	Thank you. Do any of the other MPs answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u994	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a very important law in front of us, which still has a chance of being a good law if some of the provisions or some of the members were to be a little more precise and to avoid the reasons for the existence of two laws that regulate one and the same matter. In fact, it is said in Article 1 of this law in the first position that the traffic of immovable property is free if the law is not different. We cannot talk about one law or we cannot talk about the traffic of immovableity that is free if we limit it by the next provision in the same article. This provision stipulates that the immovableities are free represents one big mistake, because other laws that are in force, in particular the Law on specific conditions for the transport of immovable property, limit this existing and this bill of law, which is given, and the Law on Building Land in the possession of the Republic. Namely, this law on special conditions of immovableity, and even when it comes to these immovableities, cannot be implemented without the consent of the Republic of Serbia, or its organs. None of the citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, other than the citizens of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, can alienate or even supply or lease, not even the closest relatives without the consent of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The criteria for granting consent to the transport of immovable property by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are not objectively prescribed so that consent is given from case to case and they are in most cases not issued and no judicial protection is allowed against such decisions, so that citizens are placed in an unequal position. This bill deprives the basic right of every citizen to be free to dispose of his immovable property and without these reasons, we cannot understand this provision as it threatens the fundamental freedoms of citizens. The provisions of this law are particularly affected by the citizens of Novi Pazar, Sjenica and Tutina and other municipalities in Sandzak, because in practice so far they have shown that they do not generally get consent to the transport of their immovable property. So they were often forced to exercise their civil rights through special agencies, which specialize in this type of business and that is for large amounts of money. They charge it exclusively from citizens in this area. For these reasons, the provision set out in Article 1 should be left out, which reads: "if by law it is not different". I have several examples of not giving solutions and consent to citizens who have already bought locals from the Assembly three years ago and for whom they have given large funds, and that foreign currency, have given these payments, but unfortunately they cannot be the owners of the locals in question until today. We have some other solutions here that refuse to protect the granting of consent and the citizen refers exclusively to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, through the court can't resolve any of its rights. Here I have one solution that's won for 700 marks. This law restricting this proposal, which automatically comes into collapsing with this proposal, was adopted in the first version of 89 years and was called the Law on traffic restrictions on immovableity. He has been declared unconstitutional since the Federal Constitutional Court, so in 91, changes and additions have changed only his name and is now existing as the Law on Special Conditions of Transport of Immobility. If the proposal for this law provided for by the entry into force of this law, which is now in the procedure, it ceases to apply the Law on specific conditions of immovableity, which has been extended by 99 years, it would create conditions for us to get a certain quality, better say a good law, which would allow citizens free movement of immovableity. This law, especially in Novi Pazar, limits the development of this small economy, i.e. business, because people to get consent to a request for a place or location, to develop their business, they wait, I say, for months. And you know that business in our terms doesn't take so many waiting deadlines, so many jobs fail. In this law, there are places to specify several members, of course with a view to being quality, as is the case with Article 4(1), to state precisely in which cases and where the contract is being checked, then Article 4 needs to be added to include the Republic Board of Geodesic Affairs in the transport of immovable property. For these reasons, I think the proposer would have the space to withdraw the bill, with it being done and to provide for the suspension of the law, which is still a year old, so that, according to the chairman of the board, this law prevents emigration under pressure. That, I say, provides even more space to prevent these financial machinations and malfeasances. To see how much in these nine years it has been possible to prevent these things and create conditions for people not to move out. In this regard, Article 11 is mentioned, and it can be said that there are a large number of sales contracts in Kosovo that have been annulled; citizens of Albanian nationality have paid large sums for purchased buildings or parcels and have lost both money and no facilities and no parcels. It was probably better to assume that before the sale contract is concluded and before these financial transactions are carried out, that there is an organ or person who will check the conditions, namely whether there are conditions for purchases, not when the purchase process is already completed, so there is damage to the citizens. And there are hundreds of examples in Kosovo where citizens have lost large amounts of money, and they are left without what they bought. It takes the state to give the citizen an opportunity to question all of this. For these reasons, I suggest that the law be withdrawn and specified, because there is room for it and a quality law.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u995	There's a word from MP Branislav Pomorski.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u996	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of Vojvodina have two fundamental objections to this bill. The first remark concerns the ban on the transport of agricultural land of state and social property. They were once again placed in the position of declaring in the first member of the declared law the free movement of immovableity, and in the next article we rule out such an option. The question arises whether there is a need to explain why the private sector in agriculture, especially in Vojvodina, is more efficient, more productive than the social sector. The social sector has been proven, unable to live in those previous regimes, when it was ruled by social, or state property. We know that essentially that the social sector of agriculture collapsed at a time when we had social property, and then we advocated and came to new users of the regime, where we came to private property, and our farmer in Vojvodina, our private sector in the Vojvodina farm, showed that he was also productive at the time of social property, so when they all dragged him back in every way. Now that we have come to new property regimes and a proposal for one of these laws, we exclude the possibility of transport to agricultural land that is in social and state property. The question is, who does it go to in the account? What do we get by that? We're going to get social or state agricultural goods -- call them whatever you want -- that no criteria can survive on the market. I therefore propose that this law be amended and complemented in the sense that all property regimes for immovable property are equated, including state and social agricultural land. Secondly, the proposal was tabled on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Sbria by Finance Minister Borislav Milacic with his creditors. I believe that the need to pass this law is primarily conditioned by problems in the implementation of the Privatisation Act, adopted more than a year ago. Changes in the immovable transport regime should speed up the privatisation envisioned by the Privatisation Act. Therefore, it would be logical for the proposal to be presented on behalf of the government by the minister in charge of privatisation, not by the finance minister, as it is the system law. Only secondary state finances can benefit from its adoption. But that's why I'm saying this. The second flaw I have announced is that this law is very late. He is late for the reason that privatisation in this country has already been well completed, and not according to the Law that was passed more than a year ago and which is still waiting for a certain logistics to be applied, but through our famous loans for the rebirth of Serbia, our Dafins, the Yedda, by breaking into the country's payment system, hyperinflation, etc. I'm saying this for a reason that when we create conditions for the Privatization Act to be applied, we, gentlemen, will no longer have anything to privatize in this country. It'll all be privatized.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u997	Do any of the other MPs answer for a word? (Nicho) Since no one's answering my word, I'm closing the search. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 159, 12 against, 8 abstentions, four did not vote, total attendance in the 183 MPs' room. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic to Article 4th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u998	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted amendments not only to Article 4(2), but also to Article 4(3) and Article 4(4). In fact, Article 4 regulates how you should look at that contract based on which you can transfer property from one person to another. And it is said in paragraph 1, that the contract is concluded in writing -- that it is one, and the other, that the signatures of the contractors are certified by the court. It's attitude one, and that's the attitude it should be. It is said in point 2 - contracts which are not concluded in the manner referred to in Article 1 do not produce legal facts. It's a clear thing. So, if these two conditions are not met, contracts do not produce legal facts. However, paragraph 3 of the Law states: the court may recognise the legal fact of the immovableity contract referred to in Article 2 which is concluded in written form, the signatures of the contractors are not certified by the court, provided that the contract is completed in whole or in part and that no breach of the right to intercept the purchase and that no forced regulation has been violated. Article 4 states a detailed contract must be delivered to the Public Revenue Administration to collect what it has to collect. But I tried it one other way, a better way to formulate it. The principle is that it originates in attitude 1. - is concluded in written form, the signatures of the contractor are confirmed by the court. In Article 3, I did not accept what is said that the court can recognise the legal fact of such a contract if it is concluded in written form, but if it has been fully executed. What does it mean? The court can confess? It means the court can't even admit it. Because there is the authority of the court to confess, but he is not ordered to confess if that other condition is fulfilled - that the contract has been executed, that there is no violation of the right to intercept the purchase and that no coercive regulation has been violated. And that's why I said in Section 2. "Proportional immovableity contracts which are not concluded in writing do not produce legal facts." This is also said by the legislator in an indirect way. So without the written form, you can't convalitate the contract. That's a fact. Third thing. I say, "The immovableity agreement concluded in writing, in which they are not certified, have a legal fact if the contractual obligations are carried out in whole or in the principal part, if the contract does not violate the right to interfere with the purchase of authorised persons, nor the injured other coercive regulations, which determines the court by its decision made on the request of one of the co-contractors." Therefore, the court must do so if all the conditions are met and if one party - the buyer or the seller are to be held at court with a request to make such a decision. I'm going to say this right now as far as the next amendment is concerned. Article 4 is stated - the court which has carried out the contract or has made such a decision, which I have spoken of earlier, is obliged to deliver to the Republic authority competent to determine and collect public revenue within 10 days of the date of the invoice, i.e. from the date of the decision's legality. I said this -- this is to "deliver the court within 10 days of the day of the confirmation of the signature" -- is a logical thing. Today is a certified signature, one copy or two copies of the contract are there, on the sides within 10 days, or within a normal period, it is delivered to the Republic Public Revenue Authority to cut the tax. However, this second solution, in which it is said - within 10 days of the legality of the court decision, I said there was too short a deadline. Because, let me, there's no judge who can control it and that knows exactly what day or to deliver it from the office subject that he can do it within 10 days in any case that the order went to the Office of Revenue, so I suggested a normal solution - that it be 30 days. Because, let me, there's a special provision here, in criminal provisions, between 500 and 10,000 dinars, the person responsible in court who doesn't deliver all of this to the competent authority in accordance with Article 4(4) will be punished for the offence. Therefore, I think it is unrealistic to expect that in all our courts, municipal and other, each time the judge comes to a delivery ticket that he can conclude that within 10 days he will also travel to the Administration of Revenue. A 30-day deadline -- that's one period within which it is normal to expect that the case, which he has decided on, will be re-delivered to determine his legality. I think it's logical, normal and real.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u999	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 32, against 139, no one was abstentioned, 7 did not vote, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 28, v. 136, no one abstained, no 9 voted, 173 was total present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 4(4) of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Under Article 4(4) of the amendment, MP Milan Mikovic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (no). I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 30, against 145, no one was abstentioned, nor voted 3, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milan Mikovic to Article 5, pages 2 and 3. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1000	Article 5 regulates the right to prevent purchases in favour of co-owners. When one co-owner intends to sell his co-ownership, he is obliged to offer it to other co-owners. St. 2rd and 3rd said, a jury that I have raised by amendment: "In case there are more co-owners, the championship in the exercise of the right to purchase is owned by a co-owner with a larger co-ownership. When there are several co-owners who, according to Section 2, would have the right to an obstacle to purchase, the co-owner of the immovable property has the right to decide for himself who he will sell his part of the immovable property to. "That's Section 3. If there are more co-owners, this situation can happen, for example, that me and my brother have one/4 each, and on the other half, Mr. Seselj has the right to property. He's got half, and we've got a quarter each. By this provision of the law, I am obliged to sell to him, not to my brother. Why is that? It's not about agricultural land, where we say we want a big property, and that's why the neighbor has the right to make purchases so we can have a bigger plot. But why prevent someone who turned to his co-owners and chose someone from whom he could only sell under the same conditions under which he offered everyone else? Thus, he cannot offer someone at a higher price and at a lower price. So, the point here is, where is what comes out of attitude 1: the traffic of immovableity is free? If he's free, then I should be able to choose which of those faces, which are all in the rank of co-owners at the moment, to sell. The number of co-owners will be reduced. It's one of the goals, but there's no reason why it would shrink in such a way that one who is richer, greater, who at that moment has a larger co-owner's share, would be recognised by that right. Therefore, I suggested that this stand that he had previously been obliged to offer to other co-owners to continue acting as co-owner who has the right to prevent buying, his right to sell at one price to the other at another price should not be violated. But this, so that he can choose whether he or she, if we accept it, then it's not worth declaring that the traffic of immobility is free.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1001	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1002	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I have a confession to make today. I admit that I highly appreciated Mr. Mikovic, as a prominent, educated lawyer, as a man of great understanding in legal matters. So much more surprised me today. Mr. Mikovic, it's about one principle. First, the desire is a legislator, it is not yet materialized, until this law is passed, the wish is for the legislator to reduce the number of co-ownership relations when it comes to real estate. This desire is present in all civilized legal denials, including ours. Out of this legislation's desire to reduce the number of co-ownership relations due to complications that always arise in such a kind of relationship, we establish a certain principle, one rule, a rule about the pre-purchasing rule. That rule is based on the assumption that the one who has the most co-ownership has the most interest to collect the rest or part of the rest, to increase the co-owner's share. It is one principle that cannot be opposed to adequate legal arguments. When it comes to family relations, so you give an example, you and your brother own it, by 1/4 you hold it in your hands, and I own half. And what would you sell to your brother, why don't you give him a present, and you solved the problem? So the law doesn't have to go into that kind of detail. I want this rule of law to be simple to make it clear to everyone. So there's an opportunity in these variants to do your will. You make a gift contract, a gift contract is also paid a certain tax and is paid even if it's a born brother. So, you give it to him, and then if you expect your brother to pay you anyway, it doesn't interest the state, it's important that the tax is paid, whether it's a gift or a purchase, you and your brother regulate it. So your argument is not valid at all, and we are introducing this legal principle in order to satisfy the legislator's basic wish, so that there are no specific problems in people's personal relations because of this legislation's desire, there are open opportunities. It's important for the state that your brother pays his taxes, and then you give it to him. It's your mutual trust that you'll trust each other for a word. In all other legal relations, in order not to have to believe the word, there is a written legal contract, regulated by this law and regulated in a very principled way.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1003	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs for the purpose of establishing the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 36 MPs voted against 151, one abstention, not five, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 6(2) of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Under Article 6(2) of the amendment, MP Milan Mikovic submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (WHISPERS) He has the word National MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1004	This says that if there is no co-ownership, that the owner of the neighbouring land has the right to intercept the purchase and that only he can buy it. I'm not quite sure that on the territory of the whole country we want our neighbor to always buy us our land.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1005	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1006	I'm glad Mr. Mikovic is finally in college with what Mr. Muric said. That is why we have that other law, which controls trade in sensitive areas. It is not our country's goal to encourage separatist tendencies or to support some, I would say, anti-state elements that try to move Serbs out of certain areas of our country, so they buy them property. First at the advantage of the price, and the rest for the debauchery. That's why we have a law that controls the traffic of immovableity and makes sure that when Shiptar sells to Shiptar, it's very easy to get consent, but if the Serb sells to Shiptar, then we're pre-examining whether it's under pressure, whether some other moments are involved, whether it's a purely commercial legal relationship or there's both political stuff and everything else. We've dealt with it in another law, and that's why we can specify the legal principle here. The legal principle is that the neighbor has the right to a championship at the same price, and in a species we apply that other law and we make sure that it has any political, legal, security implications and the like.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1007	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 38 MPs voted against 154, two abstentions, four did not vote, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 7 of the same text by MP Milan Mikovic and MP Istvan Išpanovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments may be accepted if the position of the 3rd member of the Committee is properly recasted. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 34 MPs voted against 146 abstentions, did not vote ten, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic to Article 7th. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 41 MPs voted against 145, with no abstentions, no five, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (WHISPERS) He has the word National MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1008	I'll take the opportunity, so not only this amendment, but I'll explain two of the following. In fact, here it is: "If the rightholder prevents the purchases from being offered, within 15 days of the day of receipt, he does not declare himself by letter", what is imposed upon him, and no such obligation can be made anywhere. But in our case, it says, "The right holder of a buy-in is required to make a written statement within 15 days whether he wants to buy or not." What kind of duty? Why am I obliged, if anyone offers me anything, to answer anything? I can answer if I want to buy and say I want to buy, and I can not answer. No sanctions, no harm can come to me, except I can't buy it, because I didn't say I wanted to buy it, but well, you voted it out and let it exist. It says here, "If the rightful owner of the purchases, who has been offered, is not declared within 15 days, then the sale goes on." Why 15 days? I want to sell and say that I offered eight days, and that's one normal deadline to write -- yes, I do, I want to respond within that time limit. That's one thing. Next Article 9: "If I offer and he doesn't buy, and I try to sell, I haven't sold, so over the course of a year I'm looking for a buyer again, I'm obliged to offer again." It's not a permanent right to interfere with buying. I owe it once when I'm selling to offer under those conditions. I can do it after a year, estimating all that, estimating the price increase, the one that's being calculated in some way, that I'm in the mind. But it can't happen that I'm always obliged to offer something like that every year. Third thing, which I think is the most important thing here, which is next. He says, "If I've violated the right to prevent purchases and I haven't notified them and I've sold them, then the one who has the right to prevent the purchase has the right to press charges to determine that the sale is void and therefore asks him to conclude the sale contract." All of this has no real problem. But there's one other thing. The action referred to in Article 1 may be brought within one year, counting from the date on which the rightholder of the purchase obstacle learned about the sale of that property. So he found out that there was a sale and he didn't press charges immediately, he didn't immediately demand that his right be realised, but appeared within a year. No, before it's over a year from the day he found out, and it could happen up to two years if he didn't find out right away. Therefore, legal certainty in one country does not allow such a thing. And so far, we've had such a right and it's been 30 days, 30 days to file a lawsuit, and in the same time, to deposit money on the name of the purchase price in the court's deposit. Why is he now courting someone who wants to show up as a buyer after a year? I, in that sense, have suggested what exists today, that the deadline of a year be replaced by 30 days. That's my amendment 10, so when it's voted, I'd like to have it in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1009	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1010	Dear People's MPs, I'm reporting in connection with this law and article 10 on the right to interfere with the purchase. I may have been a little late, but I think there's one important thing that's been missed. It is the following: the customer is obliged to offer to the co-owner or neighbor and to answer him within 15 days. What happens if the neighbor dies and his heirs aren't there, they're out of the country? How will that answer arrive in 15 days? I see some people are laughing here. But those are questions that can cause big problems tomorrow. I'm surprised the legislator didn't see it coming. I'm thinking this article should change or supplement. I haven't submitted the amendment, but we have to think when we're passing laws not to put people in a bad position in the future, and that's the situation I've been talking about now, which can come up, not once, but more times. Let those who are legislators think about it because these are the things that need to be eliminated so that there will be no inconvenience tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1011	Thank you. The word has Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1012	Regarding Mr. Mikovic's amendment, which requires that this 15-day deadline be reduced to 8 days, we remain in the position of 15 days. Let me remind you, until now, this deadline has been 30 days. So we're shortening the time limit in which the co-owner, with the right of an obstacle to purchase, is a person with the right to prevent the purchase from being declared. If it is not declared within that time limit, it is believed that it has been declared that it is not interested in the purchase and that it must be prescribed. So we shorten and improve, but not so much that it's eight days because the real estate business isn't a business that breaks across its knees. This second amendment, in order not to go out again, there are conditions to accept it, I must say. There's a reason why we've lasted these years, because it's about why without the knowledge of a potential real-estate participant, a contract is being concluded without his knowledge, but this deadline may be too wide, and so I suggest we adopt it, the government accepts it, and I suggest that it be an integral part, these 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1013	So that's Article 10, third amendment. Anybody else answer for a word? (Nicho) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote, Article 8, that was the first one, you didn't accept it, that's why the vote is being voted, please, it's all clear. 29 MPs voted for this amendment, 136 against, no one abstained, seven MPs did not vote, and 172 were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Milan Mikovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Mikovic has already spoken of him. Does anyone want a word? (Nicho) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The vote was taken by 31, against 136, abstentioned no one, no 9 voted, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 10(2), the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The amendment reads: Article 10, in the second sentence of "one year" is replaced by the words "30 days". The government accepts this amendment. After the government has accepted this amendment, it becomes an integral part of the law and will not be declared by the Assembly. On Article 10(2), paragraph 5 and Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The vote was 29, against 134, no one was abstentioned, no one voted four, there were 167 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 10, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Mikovic. As the amendment of MP Milan Mikovic was accepted by the government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 10(4), Article 5 and Article 6 of the amendment were tabled by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (Milan Mikovic withdraws the amendment. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Nenadovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Nicho) I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 30, 138 against, no one is abstention, four MPs have not voted, 172 MPs are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Mikovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1014	Please, I said that Article 15 should be deleted for the simple reason that it is contrary to Article 1 of this law. Article 1 of this law says: "The traffic of immovableity is free, if by law it is not otherwise defined." It's a principle. However, Article 15 speaks otherwise. He says, "Arrival and construction land, so forests and forest land cannot be alienated from state and social property, if the law is not different." It's done backwards here now. For one, not a small part of the immovableity is predicted to be the opposite. No traffic, no sales, if the law doesn't say there is sales, and this basic principle set out in Article 1 of the immovable traffic is free if the law is not otherwise determined. Article 1(1) is therefore in accordance with the Constitution and Article 15 does not comply with the Constitution. It can be respected, if it can mean anything, but in that case, I'm afraid it seriously scolds that constitutional provision that speaks of equal treatment of all forms of property.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1015	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their card in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, 133 was against, no one abstained, 13 MPs did not vote, 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment can be accepted, with the word "two" being replaced by "two". Does anyone want a word? (no) I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, 135 against, no one is abstention, eight has not voted, 176 is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Istvan Ispanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 37, 143 against, no one was abstentioned, three didn't vote, 183 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I stress the proposal for a law on the transport of immovableity in general. For 153, against seven, abstentions of 23, four MPs did not vote, 187 present. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on the transport of immovableity. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Arrivals and Public Expenses You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from the MPs: Milan Bozic, Aleksandr Milutinović, Sanja Cekovic, Bojana Ristic, Vojislav Mihailovic, Istvan Ispanovic, Tihomir Marjanovic, as well as the Finance Committee. You have received the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1016	As far as this law is concerned, but also for a whole pack of these eight points that follow behind, I wanted to speak to the MPs. The reform of the tax system in the Republic was also launched in late 1991 and in 1992. It was one of the most difficult periods for our economy because sanctions were imposed by the international community. However, in such circumstances, our Republic has defined that changes in the tax system have brought it into line with the standards and principles of policies of developed market economies. Changes in direct taxes have been made in general, while indirect taxes have launched a job of conjecturing and preparing for the introduction of additional value tax at the federal level. According to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a large and detailed analysis of the functioning of the tax system was carried out at the end of 1997 on a proposal from the government. The expert teams, formed by the Ministry of Finance, have analysed the relevant elements of each individual tax, both from the normative aspect and from the point of view of the effects in practical application. This analysis has shown that the tax system is basically well set up, but that some changes are needed from the point of view of practice. This primarily referred to the taxation of personal incomes, i.e. the extremely high tax burden of profit. It has also been found that in certain segments of the system, the principle of taxation is not fully respected in proportion to economic strength. Finally, one of the most significant findings was the lack of efficiency of the tax system in curbing the grey economy. According to analyses, tax revenues based on return to regular economic flows could increase by about three billion dinars. As a result of these assessments, a platform for further changes in the tax system has been established in our Republic. In May of this year, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on Income Tax. The most significant change was made in profit taxation. In the meantime, the taxation of personal income at a progressive rate of 15% to 30% was replaced by a single proportional rate of 14%. This is an important reduction in the tax burden of profit - the profit ratio and the total profit-related payments decreased on average from 1:1,24 to 1:0.98. Dear People's MPs, for today's meeting of the National Assembly, the Government adopted and delivered proposals for amendments and amendments to eight laws in the area of the tax and fiscal system that are being further upgraded and improved. In the preparation of these laws, consultations were held in the Alliance of Independent Unions, the Chambers, as well as a detailed debate on the assembly committees. In this regard, the government adopted a number of amendments that further specify and improve the proposed solutions. It is proposed that the laws enter into force on the eighth day since the day of publication, by applying new solutions in the Company Tax Act and the Excise and Transport Tax Act from the beginning of 1999. In this way, the economy and the population enter into the new year with known tax obligations, allowing for more efficient business planning based on defined conditions of governance. The proposed amendments to the law provide for the implementation of the following principles: - the expansion of the circle of taxpayers, - the equality of all entities and all forms of property, - a far fairer way of distribution of the tax burden, i.e. taxation of the relatively economic power, - a more significant basis for the principle of social justice in the tax system, - the prevention of speculation, tax ejaculation and the fight against the gray economy. In addition, it is ensured that the proposed changes (especially in the case of sales tax) do not carry out a cost impact and do not have an inflationary fact. All amendments are on the line of reform definitions to create a stable and efficient tax system that will stimulate timely compliance with tax obligations. In addition to each of the proposals for amending and supplementing the laws, detailed explanations have been given for the proposed changes with an assessment of the effects these changes will have on certain categories of taxpayers, i.e. on the overall level of budgetary revenues. On this occasion, I would like to point only to the most important characteristics of the proposed changes. In line with the definition that tax burdens are more uniformly deployed and legal persons tax the relative economic power, appropriate amendments have been proposed in the company profit tax law. This tax so far has very low participation in the structure of public income (between 1% and 2%). The proposed changes come from the fact that in the future this tax form should have a much more significant role to play. The first change, particularly to point out, refers to a reduction in the profit tax rate from 25% to 20%. This will have a stimulating effect on the correct accounting and on the regular settlement of tax obligations, as taxpayers who regularly settle obligations are further relieved. On the other hand, the income tax significantly extends the tax base by reducing tax incentives which are estimated to be not in the function of economic development and the creation of a desirable economic structure. It is proposed to abolish tax exemption for newly established companies dealing with trade, financial services and insurance, as the registered number of business entities in these activities shows that such tax stimulation is unnecessary. It is also proposed to narrow down tax incentives for investment investment. The reduction of tax relief is recognised up to 50% taxable profit. This reduction in tax relief will not apply to taxpayers who have had foreign capital investments or who are founded solely by foreign capital. In addition, expenditures in the tax balance are significantly determined in order to prevent a far greater cost than real and thus artificially reduces the tax base for taxing profits (limiting the reservation for investment maintenance costs, less possibility of delaying the revolving revenues, abolishing tax relief to banks up to 10% of profits, etc.). These solutions are in line with the legal solutions for taxing income from self-employed activity, adopted by the National Assembly during the amendment and addition of the Law on Income Tax in May of this year. In this way, from the point of view of tax obligations, all entities carrying out economic activity, regardless of the size or form of ownership, or whether it is a small or large economy, social, private or mixed property. On the line of a more even distribution of the tax burden is also the basis of social justice elements in the tax situation. First of all, the proposed amendments to the Property Tax Act should be mentioned here. A higher tax burden (increasing the tax by 50%) is provided for a debtor who, next to a residential building or an apartment where he or members of his family, owns another or more residential buildings or apartments that he does not rent. This is proposed because it is estimated to be justified to increase the tax burden on assets that exceeds the real needs of the owners and members of his family. Also, taxation of property is extended to the right to use city building land, if the area is over 10 acres per building plot. When it comes to fairer taxation, it is also necessary to remind once again of the changes made to the Law on Income Tax. The system of annual synthetic taxation of citizens who could not be practically realised has been abandoned, and a solution has been adopted to which the annual income tax is paid by those citizens who earn a net income of more than 72,000 dinars in that year (of course, the corresponding costs and reductions are recognised). The solution is simple, covers a significantly smaller number of taxpayers and comes from the principle (almost forgotten, because it has not been applied for six years) that citizens with above average incomes should be bonds. In view of this when proposing legal solutions, it was considered harmonisation of these taxes at the federal level (a.k.a. intensification of activities for the most significant change - introduction of a tax on additional value). As part of the unification of the tax rules, the republics have defined the unique rates of sales tax. This will reduce the lower rate of tax on goods and services from 10 to 9% so far, while the higher rate remains unchanged (20%). The proposed changes in this law relate primarily to excise products. As is said, these products have the highest degree of tax evasion. It is proposed to increase the rate of excise duty on luxury gold products, to introduce excise duty on artificial non-alcoholic and synthetic fuels and oil, and to lift the excise duty on salt for food. It is also proposed to remove the relief (in both excise duty and sales tax) for the sale of products in free shops, except at international airports and ports. It was originally proposed to encourage legalisation to reduce the rate of excise duties on cigarettes, alcoholic beverages and coffee due to the agreement at the federal level, as well as the extremely high earnings generated by the tax ejaculation of these products. However, the government gave up this proposal and accepted the appropriate amendment of the Assembly Committee. In the case of sales taxes, the obligation to pay this tax on motor gasoline, diesel fuel and lye oil is introduced immediately at the border, i.e. in the case of production. So, if the sales tax were only to be paid by importers and oil processors, until this tax was paid in the future. This proposal will allow for a significantly more correct tax procedure, as illegal trade has a significant situation in these products. Also, a new way of paying sales taxes for construction material (cement, concrete iron, blocks, bricks and crep) is being introduced. The sales tax on these products would be paid at any stage from the manufacturer to the final consumer. In doing so, any entrant would have the right to refuse the tax he paid at the previous stage, or at the time of purchase, when paying. The introduction of a phase tax on construction material is estimated to contribute significantly to the elimination of the grey economy of the transport of these products. In order to neutralize the cost impact on construction work, the rate at which the sales tax on these products is paid will be reduced and the tax exemption for the payment of sales taxes on construction services will be introduced. When it comes to the phase way of taxation, it should be said that by accepting it, we are gradually approaching tax systems in developed market economies (an additional value tax). A very important solution affecting the management of the grey economy on the one hand, and on the other, facilitates the business of small trade and catering activities, is that these shops pay taxes on the marketing of products when they purchase these products. In further traffic, bonds would not pay sales tax. This significantly simplifies the procedure and allows for the orderly and timely reconciliation of the tax obligations. The proposal to prescribe the form and contents of the tax exemption declarations and that the powers of the National Bank of Yugoslavia's banknotes should be printed in the form of those statements, should prevent the abuse of those statements and the avoidance of the payment of taxes on the market. The estimates show that by applying all those legal solutions related to the fight against the grey economy, more significant additional tax revenues will be provided. By introducing excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages, by increasing the excise duty rate on gold products, by eliminating the release of excise duty payments for fri-shops, etc. An additional billion dinars would be provided. A new way of paying taxes on the transport of construction materials would raise another 200 million dinars, and the effect of the measure on the basis of the return of the grey economy to the legal flows of transport, through a new way of issuing tax declarations, the abolition of the release of free shops, the payment of taxes on retail goods, the payment of taxes on the sales of oil derivatives during imports and production, the introduction of tax cash registers, etc. would amount to 1.3 billion dinars. So the overall possible financial effect of the proposed measures in the fight against the grey economy would be about 2.3 billion dinars. In addition to these changes in the system, it is necessary to have a far more efficient tax administration to combat the emerging economy effectively. In this respect, it is also proposed to amend the law on control, determination and collection of public revenue accordingly. The papers refer to the introduction of preventive control, as well as the precision and giving of clearer powers to the work of the financial police inspectors. Several more questions should be raised regarding changes in sales tax. For certain products (clothes and shoes, as well as public hygiene funds), a reduction of tax incentives is carried out, i.e. an obligation to pay the sales tax at a higher rate of 20%. At the same time, it is possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce this rate for domestic producers by 50%. On a selective basis, this increases the competitive capacity of the domestic industry and promotes its development. By accepting amendments from a group of MPs, it is proposed to extend the importance of paying a special fee to the City of Belgrade of 3% and in the following year. It was originally proposed to introduce in our republic the payment of sales taxes on equipment, the truth at a low rate of 2%. First of all, this proposal was due to a consensus of federal attitudes. However, given the legitimate remarks made in the economy that this tax destimulates investments, other taxes, for example city taxes, national defence taxes, have been added to 2%, the government has accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee to give up this proposal. At the same time, further efforts will be made to free the solutions and the federal law of equipment from paying sales taxes. In line with the provisions to encourage tax systems and measures to develop and positive economic processes, new solutions have been built in the proposed amendments to tax laws. One such solution is to encourage the process of property transformation in line with the solutions of the Law on its own transformation. Tax exemption from paying taxes on property shares acquired in the property transformation process (based on enrolment and on purchase with discount) is proposed within three years of the date of acquisition of those shares. The second solution that should encourage economic development concerns the introduction of the possibility of flat-rate taxation of profits in enterprises that are established and operate in underdeveloped areas. It should be recalled that tax exemption is maintained for newly established enterprises in undeveloped areas, and this proposal further stimulates investment in these areas. The proposed additional amendments to the Law on Income Tax also reduce the obligations of companies whose workers are addressed to work abroad. In this case, the salary paid by those workers in the country in accordance with the collective contract shall be taken as a basis for taxing earnings. This creates opportunities for the competitive performance of our builders on the ino markets while reducing tax evasion. The proposed amendments to the Law on Public Revenue make the Republic stronger to take responsibility and responsibility for the total balance of public spending. About this, I'm only going to point to the key changes. The future government of the Republic of Serbia would bring a general balance of public revenue on expenditure, which would have the force of obligation and which would represent an integral part of the federal consolidated balance. This law also specifies what is additionally included in the public income system (the funds from the transformation of social capital, concessions, sales of real estate in state property, etc.). In particular, it shall be specified which all fees shall belong to the budget of the Republic. First of all, this relates to the remuneration of the Republic's funds for water, forests, geological research, etc., which, under special laws, became the incomes of the Republic. In this way, it is ensured that the total public revenues and their spending are under tighter control. Under the adopted amendment, budget preparation under the gross system would begin in 1999 with the objective of drawing up a parallel base, and the adoption of such budgets is foreseen in 2000. The law also determines which public revenues belong to Croatia and cities. For the financing of public expenditure in municipalities, municipal administrative fees, concessions for carrying out municipal work and money are also provided for by the sale of state capital of the company, which is the founder of the city, i.e. the municipality. In a new way, the Law on Public Revenue regulates the deposit of public sector funds in business banks. The procedure has been defined, which ensures that these funds are deposited with those banks, which are financially capable of monitoring public sector needs. The proposed amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes on Service Taxes, which are done by state limited, increase on average by about 3 times. This has resulted in a post-relative long period since 1995 the heights of these taxis are aligned with the actual costs of doing these services and with real economic movements. Dear People's MPs, by the end of this month, the government of the Republic of Serbia will propose economic policy measures for next year. As part of these measures, an important component will be the public spending policy proposal. The basic intensity is that, regardless of all the restrictions, the share of public consumption in the social product is reduced below 50%. This is a very complex task, which means intensifying the already started reform processes in our republic. It is, above all, about ownership changes, consolidation and restructuring of the economy, but also about radical reform of services and rights acquired in public consumption. These changes to the tax system can be a significant instrument for speeding up these processes. Each dinar of increased revenues based on the return of traffic to regular economic flows, which is the intensity of the proposed changes, will create the possibility of reducing the direct tax burden of the economy in the future. And tax redistribution of the economy can significantly facilitate the otherwise difficult process of its consolidation and restructuring. I propose to the Assembly to consider the proposed laws, taking into account the corresponding amendments to the Government and the Committee, and after the debate to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1017	Thank you. The session will continue at 14.35 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, please take your seats to begin our work. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to a vacant parliamentary seat belonging to the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy -- Slobodan Milosevic. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in Electoral Unit 8 - Sombor, to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the People's Parliament, with a proposal that the National Assembly would recognise the mandate of MP Dusan Dusic, elected from the Electoral List of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left, the New Democracy - Slobodan Milosevic, in Election Unit 8 - Sombor. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 30(5). Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dusan Djusic. Congratulations to MP Dusan Djusic on the election. We're going back to work. [[Applause]] Does the MP, who singled out his opinion, Milan Mikovic want a word? (not present) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? (yes)
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1019	Mr. President, ladies of honor, MPs, the Law on Public Revenue and Expension is on the agenda. It's one of the key laws. It's a law that controls the direction and use of funds that go towards the budget and from the budget. This law provides for their control and direction. The Finance Committee has dealt with this law and there have been a lot of changes on the Committee itself, so I will now draw your attention to two things that the Serbian Renewal Movement resents this law. The Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses has seen a major increase in public revenues. They are now taken, revenue and from the sale of movable goods in the state property, income from interest on payment of money, revenue from concession fees and compensation for the use of goods of general interest in accordance with the Law, revenues obtained from the sale of government capital, income from leases, i.e. on the use of immovable property in state property. What we can blame on these new incomes is the income generated by the lease and that part of the income. The portion of the revenue was determined by a grand depreciation rate, and means, part of the revenues that local municipalities make by issuing a bar, will now have to go to the Republic of Serbia's budget. We believe that this income should have remained in the municipalities, where it was realized. The second point that we have disputed in this law, and we have proposed, by amendment to its resolution, is Article 89. Article 29, where it is said: "Only taxpayers who have claims from beneficiaries of the budget may participate in the compensations referred to in Article 1 of this Article." By entering into force of this law, we will have a large number of compensations that have been started and are not finished. Just because they are not completed, if this Member of the Law enters into force, they will probably not comply with this law and will not be able to finish, since compensation is a way of paying on the basis of obligations and claims. I'm afraid the great claims will remain undecided. We've given amendments to this law, so we'll talk about them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1020	Thank you. Does MP Milan Mikovic now want a word? (don't want) Do any of the MPs want a word? (whispers)
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1021	Dear colleagues, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Revenue and Expenses, as well as other laws regulating the area of tax, are essentially further specified by the application of the tax system and provides for a better system of payment control and dedicated use of budget funds at all levels. The powers of a large number of entities to introduce fiscal commitments are eliminated, the principle of gross budgets, i.e. the inclusion of all public revenues in public spending balances, is affirmed. There is a wider circle of taxpayers, a fairer distribution of taxes is being carried out, that each taxpayer pays taxes according to its economic strength. Measures shall be set out to prevent tax avoidance, i.e. tax evasion. Amendments to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, as one of the system laws, in particular define the obligation to adopt a general balance of public income and public expenditure, creating conditions for precise determination of the participation of public consumption in the social product. It is also important that the proposed amendments to the Law define the control of budget spending, increase responsibility for their dedicated use, especially for the beneficiaries of the budget, which, at the request of the budget authorities, must provide information and documentation on the basis of which the financing of their expenditures is carried out. I think it's a good thing the government adopted the objections of the Finance Committee to Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the work that the Executive Boards of Assemblys of municipalities, cities and autonomous provinces independently decide to deposit funds with business banks for the funds of budgets and institutions and enterprises whose founder is local self-government, creating real opportunities for the overall examination of municipal problems by local self-government executives, as well as the provision of additional funds and more favourable credit monitoring of investments in the area of municipal infrastructure by banks. The paper in amendments to the law is also the possibility of introducing municipal administrative tax and concession fees for performing municipal activities, which basically creates a possibility for a different organisation of the business of public enterprises, in particular public utility companies and their business. The amendment of Article 89b provides for the possibility for debtors to settle their obligations on the basis of taxes by transfer to the state property of bank shares, foreign claims, and the reduction of immovable property, which contributes to further consolidation of the economy. The proposed amendments and amendments to the tax law, and in particular the Law on Public Revenue and Expenses, are an improvement compared to the solutions so far, and should therefore be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1022	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1023	There is one thing that should undoubtedly be explained to us, and that is the general balance of public income and public expenditure of the Republic, you know. That's the thing that's new to us, for those of us who don't do this job, and it would be important, and we've asked on the Committee, to tell us, since it's determined by the Government, whether it's going to be an act, whether it's going to be something that's going to be in some way to check, whether it's going to be a statement, whether it's going to be a Parliament that's going to be informed or maybe possibly a Assembly and that it's going to be something like that, whether it's going to make a decision, whether it's receiving something. I think the legislators should explain that part to us.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1024	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Bojana Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1025	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about a whole package of tax laws within the time allowed, of course. A package of tax laws proposed by the Serbian government in some cases reduces the tax burden on the economy. However, the same laws simultaneously significantly increase the incomes of the Republic. Thus, the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act plans to increase revenues by about 800 million dinars. The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Tax Law plans to increase revenues by two billion and three hundred million dinars, and since it has dropped the excise duty on cigarettes, coffee and alcoholic beverages, that means more than 2.3 billion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Taxes and Refunds also plan to increase the revenues of the Republic of Serbia. With the draft law amending and supplementing the Administrative Tax Act, the government plans revenues of about a billion dinars in a year. What does all this mean? The planned increases in the revenues of the Republic of Serbia are nearly five billion dinars and means that money must be taken. This makes it more clear that this is possible to reduce certain tax rates and on the other hand to increase income and become more clear that this is being extended to taxpayers, according to the finance minister, how the tax burden is evenly distributed and how they are more taxing incomes from self-employed activities. It is clear that this increase in income will be paid by citizens and by those poorer and small business owners. It is clear that what does not take an economy for wage employees, the government plans to take even more taxes and extend the circle of taxpayers. Practically, what the Serbian government does not take on the bridge will be taken on the pot. It can be said that the reduction of individual tax rates is a waste of dust in the eyes and that actually citizens will be much more burdened. Because, in addition to the current TV tax on electric numbers, special vehicle registration fees, the obligation to pay new plates and traffic permits, new taxes are being introduced, and the old ones are increasing multiplely. So if we look at tax laws individually, we can say that every reduction in tax rates follows a multiple increase in the income of the Republic on the other side. How is that possible? Here are concrete examples. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act reduces the profit tax from 25 to 20%. This means reducing the tax on those who have profits, successful businesses, and new start-ups in the area of trade, banking and insurance are cut off tax incentives and are reducing investment incentives for basic assets for work and thus making more income. The Serbian Renewal Movement has always advocated that newly established companies are free of taxes in the first five years and therefore cannot accept the solutions proposed by this law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and Taxes on Transport abolishs the excise duty of 5% for salt and taxes on the marketing of services from 10% to 9%. However, a 10% excise duty is imposed on artificial non-alcoholic beverages, as if we have natural non-alcoholic beverages, bottled and mineral water, as if water is luxury, introduces a tax on the sales of legal services, and increases from 10% to 20% tax on the sales of detergents, soap, shampoos for hair, clothing and shoes, baby soap and goods from imports. All these excise and tax increases will be paid by citizens. As for the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, the Serbian Renewal Movement requires that poor citizens who have only an apartment in which they live do not pay taxes on the apartment, and that only those who have income from renting an apartment or house are taxed. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on municipal taxes and fees allows for the transfer of funds from larger municipalities to smaller municipalities by rejecting public fees on salaries and paying to municipalities in which they live, not municipalities in which they work. This bill is unacceptable because it damages major cities. The Serbian government has other mechanisms that can help undeveloped small municipalities and should use them. It should use the Fund for Development, the Fund for Undeveloped Areas, the Fund for Unemployed and Others. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes should be withdrawn from the procedure because the introduction of new taxis and the increase of old citizens burden themselves to intolerable borders. Salaries and pensions are actually less so citizens are unable to pay the phone, register a worn-out car, let alone pay all the taxes you planned, in addition to this tax on electric numbers, in addition to paying new licenses, new traffic permits, etc. A special story is punishment in tax laws, which have such large ranges to allow for various abuses. That's why it happens for the same offense the government's favorites are being punished by 300, and the other one with 5,000 dinars means the same offense. The Serbian government would achieve an increase in revenue without all the additional burdens mentioned if it made sure that taxes and contributions are paid by large enterprises whose directors are close to the ruling coalition. So far, practice has shown that this, privileged, close government enterprises do not pay taxes and contributions, such as pension insurance tax, health insurance, etc. which shouldn't be happening in the rule of law. It is also unacceptable for citizens to be persecuted when it comes to paying for electricity and telephones, to be charged interest without the state giving interest when late pensions and salaries, such as salaries in education, culture, health care, state administration, etc. The Serbian government can only increase the burden of citizens once it makes it possible to create new jobs and raise wages and pensions with its policy. Otherwise, the government will remain remembered for its greatest influence on Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1026	Thank you. There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1027	Fellow MPs, a few words about the proposal concerning all the laws that have been highlighted here and why the minister has delivered his opinion. We will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, as we understand, that the Government has given up on Article 11, which provides for the centralisation of all financial resources of the congregations of Vojvodina and cities in Serbia and Vojvodina respectively. This proposal, which originally existed in the law, would certainly be difficult to jeopardise the entire history of local self-government in Serbia and Vojvodina, would hardly challenge the right of citizens to manage their resources on their territory and hence be commended to the government for giving up this proposal and for at least maintaining local self-government in this law. We will also vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, as there are no disputed elements in this law. However, we will not vote for the other laws. The reasons why we will not vote are as follows: First, it continues with the policy of spreading legal uncertainty. There is almost no shorter period already already going on for six months without changing significant laws, and now it is about changing the entire system of laws that, of course, further cause legal uncertainty in the country, so that more simply, with this uncertainty spreading, no one can get used to the existing tax rates, taxes, excise duties, customs duties, although they are not being discussed here. And with this continuing challenge of legal uncertainty, no more investors in our country, but that's a long time ago, he's not sure that under the same law, he'll end up investing and doing business with which he entered into investment. This applies only to a privileged group, which does not depend on the law and which can be privileged to participate in business. So, by biased interpretation of all laws and political forces, but for a convincing majority of investors, especially medium, small entrepreneurs, the continuing challenge of legal uncertainty in the country essentially affects the economic potentials of the remaining in the country and investment. At the same time, today when we listened to the reasoning of this package of laws, we did not see to what extent the Government expects the increase in taxes, excise duties, tax rates and penalties will contribute less to inflation. Because existing taxes, which are now changing and if they are voted - communal taxes, etc. will be installed in product prices. There's no projection of any model, we don't know if any model was created to test what would happen to the prices, with the price level of these tax laws. Since taxes are raised by an average of three times, many for five times, some for ten, penalties, and from that we can expect that all these elements will be installed into new prices and we can expect an inflationary blow. It would be good if the government could come out today with a projection of what would happen with price stability. It is good that we have yet, even ten years ago, standardized and encrypted in accordance with the European Community of tariffs, customs and all others, so in this sense we have taken one path towards the European system, but at the same time we are moving away from it and we are moving away from this continuous challenge of legal uncertainty and persistent changes in tax rates, taxis, etc., which is ultimately further away from us, but also making it impossible for our domestic economy to operate under normal circumstances. We estimate that raising communal taxis, excises, taxes will be difficult to damage the standard of our people, that this is no longer even taking the skin off the back of the people, this is now taking off the skin, what's left of it, and that this has nowhere to go except to increase the misery in the country, to despair. The social output per capita in Serbia is $1,310 according to the latest data. About 60% is taken for public expenditure in our country. Hence, the standard of living for the population is extremely low, regardless of how one part, independent, therefore from a net personal income, is received from the outside by a detour. We see that our people will not be able to withstand this massive increase in municipal taxis, excises, etc. and we see this as a recognition that in the country in the past few years, compared to the time when certain laws were passed, which are now being changed in the country, there was an extremely high rate of inflation. At the same time, there is no explanation, it seems to us at least one part of the exhibitors in front of the government, about the meaning of these laws, which warned that the economy, according to these laws, would be less burdened to achieve a balance on the back of the people. As far as we can see, the decline of our country's economy continues, and these days, an example of bankruptcy has gone away from one of the largest meat industries in our country, in the history of even our country, it is the Klanic Industry in Banatski Karlovac, which already had 13% of the total exports of then-Yugoslavia in 1923. As of 14 days ago, the Pancheese Azotara, for which gas deliveries are no longer available, the fertilizers will no longer be, people are on the streets, unemployed, the Blacksmith Sugar is gone. At this point, it's a struggle to even process sugar tails, etc. There's less income in the country. And from this we estimate that it will be extremely difficult to justify a coup on the back of the people of all these costs, with this explanation that, despite the downfall of the economy on the one hand, even the administration should be increased on the other. One of these laws envisions hiring new people to collect signatures and to prevent taxes from being paid by accident. So on one side, the economy falls, and on the other hand the number of administrative workers rises. Of course we want to vote against it because we believe it is not the interest of the people of the country. At the same time, we do not believe that it is good to continue to maintain a system of forced tax on movables, unless the taxpayer paid it in time, whatever the circumstances. We are deeply convinced that no one, an alien worker, or a worker, especially those who are now on the street, can enter the house without a court decision to take away his mobile property. We believe that this would be an additional element of the security of every citizen in our country so that the tax authority does not put above court decisions and that any confiscation of private property, which should be sacred, must first go to the judicial decision that confirms it. We disagree with the fact that all of our citizens, who except for apartments or houses that have other residential facilities, are taxed by 50% because we are deeply convinced that the country has long failed the middle class, but today it has fallen very badly. Every year, 3,000 more unemployed people go to the Bureau of Labour, and we do not believe that with the increased additional burden of the population, relatives, children and others taking over property, we do not believe that any support in the people can be obtained. These are all the elements that prevent us from issuing these laws, but I believe that, with a certain effort, these laws could improve and then become acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1028	There's a word from MP Milovan Purenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1029	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign, everything and everything has been promised as the people's gain, but the results of the work so far by the ruling coalition have been devastating. What has the Government of the Republic of Serbia done to date for the benefit of Serbian citizens? Serbia's universities are intimidated. The information law struck freedom and written word, in expressing freedom of opinion. Vehicle registration fees have been increased, then through the tables, and immediately after the Regulation has not given the appropriate results, a new Regulation is introduced in the registration of the vehicle. In particular, a tax on gasoline and cigarettes has been introduced. And there's now a big package of 10 tax laws. Almost everything will be taxed: food, drink, shoes, clothing, hygiene, immovable and mobile property. And it's time to tax the air we're breathing, home furniture and home appliances, under the pretext that it's all a grey economy. Gentlemen of the government, without production, especially industrial production, no goods, no value achieved, and therefore no profit. There's no profit. And from there, it is only possible to charge tax on satisfaction to both taxpayers and state. In the area of economy, the situation is devastating. For various reasons under bankruptcy, 20,000 companies went. That's twice the number of companies that are in the situation of bankruptcy. Gentlemen, let's protect this people who have very low incomes, about a thousand dinars. It is also clear to the laymen that they live on the lower limit of endurance. And biological survival is at stake. Many have lived or are currently living on additional activities, but these supplies have already been spent. The only thing left is naked life. The biological survival of Serbian citizens has already been compromised. Everybody needs to add it, not take the money. Whether we create children in these conditions or the white plague will question the statehood of the Serbian nation. It's winter, people are threatened because there's no money for heating, food, clothes and shoes. It is rare that households in Serbia do not pay for studies to their children, which should also be fed and put on. At a time when Serbian citizens prepare for winter and prepare to survive this winter, they unfold in various ways. Action is organised: sugar, electricity, citizens of Serbia. Of course, the vast majority of debtors can't even pay for their spent electricity. And this can be easily confirmed: with an average pension of 500 dinars and employees of 1,000 dinars, what to say about those who receive social services 200 dinars a month, with that money it is impossible to survive, let alone pay for electricity and other taxes. If you take that many of this social structure to pay for private housing, then it's close to the situation it is in the conditions of war. A part of the debtor could pay for the clean electricity consumption, but they can withstand the charges with allegedly cheap electricity, as another 1.6 dinar of charge is paid on one dinar of electricity, through a fee, through employed power, sales tax, Seselj's electricity tax. Seselj's tax was introduced to help the TV Bastille of Serbia, the gentleman who will not live from marketing and business co-operation, but from the cash the people need to separate from the mouth. That is why it is necessary to take action immediately, to stop harassing citizens immediately. Citizens spend their electricity as a national resource, for which our people invested over 10% of their salaries for years. They invested when they made sure they didn't have money for a naked life, so those who really couldn't, they don't have to pay for that electricity. You put pressure on the same people twice. Once the electricity is taken from social enterprises, for the second time at home. As a result, many employees do not have heating at work or at home. And we know that electricity is being exported for all that time between Croatia and Slovenia, which you know our friends are. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition take your anger towards holding Albanians in Cosmet, not towards the university. Therefore, its energy should be directed towards Cosmet and tried to save this Serb sanctity. That is why I will end my presentation with the words: There is no Serbian without the Serb people. Serbia is our only treasure preserved not only for our sake, but for our offspring and out of respect for our ancestors. That's why we're all working for Serbia and the Serbian people. Let's do everything to make it easier for the people to live, to work and earn, and then pay for all the tax obligations through a progressive and better system than this, as is the one that the Serbian Renewal Movement advocates.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1030	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Milovan Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1031	I would like to point out that I have long since heard more half-truth or arbitrary than I have heard in the discussion of a MP whose name I do not know. Mr. MP, if you're already talking about the fear of the university, let me tell you that in the last few decades, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set up the Fund for Scientific Research, to encourage the scientific and educational process at universities, the University's housing issues, and to create assumptions for the certainty and perspective of survival here is a fact. If you're already eating at how many fines we hit, then you're bringing yourself into contradiction. You defend the Information Act, where we haven't choked any freedom, we even let the lie go, but we said that this lie had to be paid a little more. And one more thing, I believe I share an opinion from the Government of National Unity: we are not afraid of criticism, especially not written and not illiterate, but we are most afraid of semi-literate ones.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1032	National MP Purenović has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1033	I'll be freer now than I was before in my presentation, since a college professor, a respected doctor in his profession, treats a university professor who's more respected than he is. But I don't think it would make any sense to be offended about literacy or half-literacy. And the truth really hurts. What I've said is true, and I'm glad I'm the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm encouraged to think a little bit. I am a university professor, Mr. Seselj, and you haven't held a single hour at university.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1034	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? (Nicho) I'm concluding a principled search. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 160, against 15, four were abstentions, not 20 votes, and 199 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 6th, the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MPs Milan Bozic, Aleksandar Milutinovic, Sanja Cekovic and Bojana Ristic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, 159 was against, no one was abstentioned, everyone voted, 202 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th, the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MPs Milan Bozic, Aleksandar Milutinovic, Sanja Cekovic and Bojana Ristic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' offices. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 155, no one was abstentioned, four did not vote, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, with the amendment of Article 34, as amended. They delete the words "with the prior consent of the Government", and they delete the words "and 2" from Section 3. Since the Committee on Finance has adopted the intervenings proposed by the Government in relation to the amendment of the Committee and has given a consolidated amendment to Article 11, and the proposing representative has accepted the consolidated text of this amendment at the session of the Committee on Finance, I find that the consolidated text of this amendment has become an integral part of the law. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milan Bozic, Aleksandar Milutinovic, Sanja Cekovic and Bojana Ristic and MP Istvan Ispanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (don't want to) (The amendment promoters have declared to withdraw the amendment. ) I find that the amendments have been withdrawn. Mr Tihomir Marjanovic submitted to Article 16 of the First Amendment. This amendment shall, in its essence, apply to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Since the Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Marjanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (WHISPERS) The People's MP Tihomir Marjanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1035	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am glad that the government and the Finance Committee have accepted the previous amendment, which is a sign that the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement are always trying to give improvement and quality. And now I'd like to say something about this amendment to article 17. I believe that the Assembly should accept this amendment, because in my opinion, the budget is primarily parliamentary, not the government's act and the budget schedule is determined by the Assembly, and the government is only exceedingly over-rectified positions of the "current budget reserve". As far as I'm concerned, it's a congregation's right to rebalance the budget. If a proposed Article 17 by the Government is accepted, with an upcoming Article 48. The law, the Assembly will never be able to rebalance the republican budget. In my opinion, the Government takes this member as a right to have the total budget, similar to having the executive boards available in municipalities, instead of the current budget reserve. Similarly, MP Mikovic commented earlier in the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1036	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? (Nicho) I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in MPs for the purpose of determining the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, 159 is against, no one abstention, no three MPs voted, 205 is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 29th amendment include mid-term MPs Vojislav Mihailovic and Sanja Cekovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be acceptable. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' offices. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 42, 155 against, no one abstained, four MPs did not vote, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 30th amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? (don't want to) Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a law search in detail. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public revenue and public expenditure in general. For 185, against 5, with 5 abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on control, fortification and payment of public revenue you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do any of the messengers of the people want a word? There's a word from MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1037	The law on control, determination and collection of public revenue is a law necessary for every country, because the public revenues charged must also be controlled. This law lays down criteria and ways in which officials, designated by the Republic Public Revenue Administration, exercise that control. They are not disputed criteria and their working conditions and they are not even disputed, which rewards those people in Article 9 with a percentage, a percentage of 25 increases to 50. It is a dispute that in practice it has been proven many times that this control is not objective, that it is not adequate and that it often has a political note. This is particularly noticeable when private companies are controlled and social enterprises are involved. Every control, when it is objective, when it is right and when it is represented by law, when the law is applied, when the records are respected, must be supported. But please make sure that the social companies for the offence, which has been committed, as well as in private companies, are equally punished and equally blocked accounts, that this law provides for the payment of contributions to each other. For now, from experience, private firms have been the ones subject to this law, and social firms have been passed this law solely because of the political definitions of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1038	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (no). I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on control, determination and collection of public revenue in principle. For 180, against one, it abstained 10, not three, a total of 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Control, Identification and Payment of Public Revenue, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1039	Under this law, I have submitted two amendments. I also need to explain why it's important. I suggested that article one be deleted. This is the member, in which the words "up to 5%" are replaced by the words "up to 3%", referring to Article 14. The law, which explicitly states that advertising and propaganda expenditures are recognised as expenditure of up to 5% of total income. We have introduced this provision in time into the law, because it is then estimated to be a real percentage, which should normally be recognised as expenditure. Therefore, neither was politics, but it was those people, who do this work and understand it and who, based on human experience, have proposed such a provision and have entered the law. So it's not something new. I'd like to point to two things. Article 14 should be seen in general and especially the last two positions of this provision, where it explicitly states: Only those gifts and other expenditures, which serve directly or indirectly, are recognised as expenditures of the tax balance. So, not all of it, but exactly what it serves that purpose...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1040	Mr. Mikovic, I'm sorry, this law has only 13 members and no amendments have been submitted. Is this a mistake?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1041	Article 1 states: Article 14, paragraph 6, changes words.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1042	This is the law on control, determination and collection of public revenue. Okay, it's okay. Anybody else answer for a word? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on control, determination and collection of public revenue in general. For 167, against one, with 27 abstentions, one did not vote, a total of 196 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Control, Determination and collection of public revenue. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Entrepreneurship You have adopted a bill, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic and Milan Mikovic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At a session of the Legislative Committee, MP Milan Mikovic issued an opinion. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Does the MP, who has given his opinion, want a word? (No) Do any of the messengers of the people want a word? There's a word from MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1043	The company profit tax law is very similar and has received the basic elements of the Law on Income Tax, which we adopted in this assembly in June of the month. The basic objection to this law is in several members, which I will read and explain. Article 2 says: "If investments are not made according to the long-term plan on the burden of expenditure in the tax balance, only the actual costs of the investments made and not the amount of the reservation are recognised. "So far there have been reservations, and now only real costs are required, so those costs have been made by December 31st. This alone does not allow the possibility of planning and booking costs for next year. Article 7 provides for a reduction in the rate from 25 to 20%, and this implies that the final calculation will be carried out at a rate of 25% and the advance in the following year by 20%. In Article 9 of the corporate tax exemption, they are now out of banking, technical, financial and commercial enterprises. Now it's about companies, and it means not one year they've had anymore. In one part of the Law, the right to freedom does not belong to those who have an income greater than 75 thousand. Article 11 of the obligor who invests in fixed assets in its own registration activity, in the purchase of shares or shares in the existing legal person or in long-term public loan bonds reduces the tax base for the amount of investment and up to 50%. The previous law reduced that base by 100%, and that was one incentive for people to invest, to practice and to buy funds for work. In Article 60a. In underdeveloped areas, we predict that income tax can be paid in a flat-rate amount, but we just don't see categories that would regulate it. What I particularly object to this law and for which I will insist on voting against is Article 16 which says: "The taxpayer is obliged to make monthly advances of Article 1 and 2 of this article higher by the rate of growth of the total income compared to the previous month. "We're talking about profit tax here. It's a category that has to do with income, but not just revenue. We all know that profit is something derived from income and expenditure. So we can't tax a single company with a growth in income without looking at expenses. Incomes grow, and relatively they grow and costs. For example, if it is a commercial company and there is a significant increase in revenue in one month, that means that it bought the goods and gave the goods funds for them and that the purchase value of that goods was the category of cost. Therefore, any other solution, a solution that would strengthen the control of the Administration of Revenue, which would require a more frequent submission of tax balances, I would accept, and to tax on income, it cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1044	Thank you. There's a word from MP Nebojsa Atanakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1045	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, I will use this address to give, with a comment from this company's profit tax law and a certain comment from the total package of laws that we have been offered. My overall relationship to this package of laws is positive. I think you've taken a step forward in some things. However, there are still things we may have been able to change and make this package more suitable for the situation we are in. I would also point out a certain understanding shown by the Government in adopting certain suggestions, as well as by the Finance Committee, and in commenting on this law, I will say some things that are positive and, in any case, a reduction in the rate from 25 to 20%, which in itself means a certain stimulation. On the other hand, I appreciate that certain provisions of the Law have succeeded and I think they will succeed in the practice of expanding the tax base and also significantly improving the efficiency of the control of economic operators. However, one thing I appreciate is that the government finally wanted to increase the participation of this tax in the overall financing of society through corporate profits in some way, in any way. However, I believe that this could have been achieved in a different way, rather than by taxing basic funds. As we know, investment in fixed assets was 100% released, and now only 50%, which seems to me that under conditions of insufficient investment can significantly reduce the interest of economic operators towards investment in fixed assets. Secondly, no matter what arguments may be accepted, we may have enough companies in the area of trade, banking, insurance, etc. i.e. they represent 70% of the total number of enterprises, i think with one change in the terms and conditions of engagement, and in these areas we simply change the conditions of rejuvenation, and maybe that wasn't necessary. It should indeed be pointed out that business subjects must finally come to one security, and in this way, such changes do not contribute to this, and there is always an assumption that next year, in line with those covered by these exceptions, others could be found. In the end, I'd say one more thing about one thing that I don't like, which is that we don't treat foreign people in the same way, so that's something that's in all of this, in the overall injuries, maybe the most serious injury to some of the definitions. I really don't see, in fact I see a reason why we couldn't change the conditions of hurting foreign investors, because we have certain other promises and efforts not to change it, but it also best shows that we change the conditions of harming domestic entities and this is all in favour, but it's very difficult for me to accept that we should tax the basic funds.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1046	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (non-announcer) I'm concluding a principled search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 143, against 30, four abstentions, did not vote 7, 184 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Milan Mikovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1047	I've said most of it, but there's still one more thing that we need to point out, and that's that provision that we have in basic law, which suggests that these advertising and propaganda expenditures aren't made up and not something uncontrollable. I told you a little before, only those gifts and other expenditures that serve directly or indirectly to promote the business of the taxpayer are recognised for the cost of propaganda. Therefore, it is an objective thing, but the following point is said: "If propaganda is done through giving gifts for which it is not a documentary recipient or whose recipient is a connected person within the meaning of Article 57 of this Act, these expenditures are not recognised in the tax balance". Therefore, even when there were speeches about what percentage it should be, and then the law provides for guarantees that it will not go the other way. I think one thing that existed, one thing that was precisely determined, one thing that turned out well and one thing that stems from the experience of our organizations, business organizations, no doubt should be changed, but should be respected. If you'll excuse me, I have another amendment, so let me point it out. I suggested erasing Article 22, and I pointed out two things here. One thing is that this law is contrary to the Law of Infractions and that's important. The second thing I'd like to point out is point 1 that changes within this article, and it's said, "If a taxpayer doesn't charge taxes and collect taxes on dividends, interest payments and other incomes, they'll be fined." But you have to look at the text, you have it in the material that we've got. It's not about "paying" but about not paying taxes on dividends. It stands explicitly in this text and is completely wrong now in this new bill.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1048	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, 139 against, no one abstained, 6 didn't vote, 186 was present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16, item 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sanja Cekovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 42, 140 against, no one is abstention, two have not voted, 184 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 44, 140 were against, no one abstained, one MP did not vote, 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? (don't want) Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Profit Tax Act as a whole. For 143, 40 against, no one abstention, three have voted, 186 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on the Income of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have accepted it in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Do any of the MPs want a word? (WHISPERS) The word has a National MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1049	Just for a little while. This law was meant to, I saw it from an explanation, to make money for our people working abroad to confess to the amount of profit they would have made if they'd worked in the country. As these people who went abroad, separated themselves from their families, worked hard, and made a lot more money on that job than they'd made in the country, I respect that we wanted this law to give them some money, but I think that at a time when they were defined or they had to retire, they'd be damaged because their retirement and disability insurance base would make a lot less money than they've earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1050	Thank you. The word has Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1051	So there's no misunderstanding about whether anyone likes it more, and someone likes the builders less. Just on the basis of the request of the Association of Builders, for objective reasons that we all know well that they're getting a messy payout of what they normally earn outside, and that they get to spend part of it because of the higher costs that are out there than here in our country, we've respected this request and we've regulated these that they have obligations to social funds, which is what we're talking about, at the height of the salary they would receive in the country. Of course, any builder who has won and earned well, and is interested in exercising greater rights in the pension system, can pay as much as he pleases and we will be grateful to him given the problems we have in the pension fund.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1052	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (Nicho) I'm concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle, since we have a quorum. For 161, seven against, 11 abstentions, seven did not vote, 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening an investigation into the draft law in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. For 165, one against, ten abstentions, seven did not vote, 183 is present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCISATION LAW AND THE IMPLEMENTATION ON MARKETING You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from the People's MPs: Nebojje Lekovic, Zoran Nikolic, Dragomir Radovanovic, Cvetkovic's Lives, Milan Bozic, Aleksandr Milutinović, Sanja Cekovic, Bojana Ristic, Milan Miković, Istvan Ispanovic and the Amendments of the Finance Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Istvan Ispanovic gave up his amendment to Article 19. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1053	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of law is contrary to the provisions of the Law on the founding of the tax system in force, the federal law of 1996. The same bill is contrary to the provisions of the new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of the Tax System in front of the Federal Assembly. The Committee's session, among other things, concluded that this bill, especially with these amendments, which we have learned in some way that it will be accepted, was not in agreement with the information we have learned from the newspapers about the agreement between Serbia-Montenegro finance ministers. In such a situation right now, we are facing the law, or we are proposed to adopt a law that is contrary to the existing federal law, a federal law that is in the process of adoption or before the Federal Assembly and contrary to what is allegedly agreed between the two finance ministers. We can pass a law like that. Should we pass such a law that is contrary? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1054	Thank you. He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1055	These words in "controversy" sound rather harshly, they even associate that they are opposite and that one policy is achieved contrary to the law of the federal law and what was agreed to establish and comply with the Montenegrin Deputy Prime Minister, who officially informed his government about it. So when something fits, it's a process. Within the process, there is a first, second and third step. We are pulling our step, which is the first step, and the total alignment is provided by signing the relevant documents. We harmonize the differences that have made it difficult for our business entities to attract and we are absolutely standing in that position, because this is the area of traffic, that we should have the same regulations, the same rates, so that economic operators in the common territory work in the same way. That's what we're providing. We had a problem, I also said in the opening statement, one in the position of taxation of equipment, because we first agreed that Serbia should still introduce a minimum rate. In the context of consultations and discussions that were in the process of passing laws and at committee meetings, we have come to the conclusion that this is not a good idea, because here there have been remarks that abandoning investment taxation and additional burden on investment is not a policy that we should be leading under these circumstances and therefore we gave up and suggested that the equipment is not taxed. We received agreement from participants in the consultations so that it was accepted that the federal government would intervene under its jurisdiction in federal law, and a representative of the Montenegrin government accepted that they too would not tax the basis. We have perfectly harmonised regulations. We've even had a difficult situation. Our original agreements required Serbia to increase its tax rates. Let me remind you, our first agreement was that the lower tax rate on transport would be 9, now it's 10%, so we're reducing, but that the higher sales tax rate in Serbia is 20, and in Montenegro 21, it goes to 21. We agreed to remain in Serbia a higher tax rate - 20, that they would reduce to 20% and accept their lower rate of 9%. We think as part of what is the observation that the Assembly should decide on the proposal and that this law will contribute crucially as a normative area to regulate the fight against the gray economy and ensure a more realistic arrest than those taxpayers who have avoided paying the tax on excise taxes. In this regard, I propose that we make a positive statement on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1056	Thank you. There's a word from MP Tihomir Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1057	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, I am today in a position to debut here in the Assembly, given the current political consolidation in this room and given what I'm about to say, because I don't believe that at the end of the presentation I'm going to get a round of applause, but since we actors are used to applause, I'm asking you to welcome me with applause at first, so it would be convenient for everyone. I'm glad Mr. Seselj applauded, too. [[Applause]] I will start with quotes: "The Republic of Serbia has a first-rate interest in including the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in regional and European integration processes. Our interest is to speed up the normalisation of the relations between the SRJ and the European Union.... "In the Republic of Serbia there are major social and economic reforms.... "The social product will grow about 7% annually by the end of this decade, which is above average and compared to developed countries... Our goal is to catch up with the middle-developed countries at the end of that period, in terms of social product... "The government of the People's Unity will continue in the coming period with a policy of continuity, which is the main pillars of stability, economic growth and the acceleration of reform processes... "We are about to round up the fiscal system by introducing taxes on additional value and applying synthetic taxation of citizens' income... "These are quotes from the programme, which the prime minister for the government's composition, Mr Mirko Marjanovic, announced to this assembly during the government's election eight months ago, on 24 March this year. I would also like to remind myself that the National Assembly was still in 1997 (when the Prime Minister was also Mirko Marjanovic), I concluded that it would approach a serious and detailed analysis of the economic system, with the aim of discharging the economy and reducing budgetary and public spending. Looking at this set of laws from those points of view, it is not difficult to see a huge gap between the declared policy and the practical, legal frameworks that not only create the necessary environment, but also disrupt the elemental conditions for the realization of such a policy. Because, for example, if the declared participation of budgetary and public spending at 47%, by applying the proposed laws increases to 60% and above, then it is not only an increase in total consumption, but it is a dangerous destruction of those policy resistances that the government has designated as the basic: stability, economic growth and acceleration of reform processes, with the real potential of the failure of the economy, which we know, in every respect and segment, is sufficiently endangered. That an increase in the consumption of facts can be seen from the reasons for the proposed documents, according to which only three laws (about excise duties and sales taxes, administrative taxes, corporate tax), the effect of increasing budget revenues at an annual level of 2.3 billion 765 million and 800 million, close to four billion dinars, plus revenues from drastic increases in penalties for violations (public revenues, communal taxes, property taxes, Seselj Public Information Act, etc.). If we take the budget without rebalance at 96, it was 12 billion, in 97, 14 billion, and in 98. 16 billion, then mathematical laymen, it's clear what a year-on-year increase is for just two billion. You can see that these three laws alone have an increase in the budget by four billion. It is difficult to defend the attitude towards which the state does not determine its income at the level of the taxpayers' power, but rather takes as much as it needs. In countries that are seriously building their perspective and do not plan from today to Tuesday, and I think that is our superior task, tax policy must be developmental and stimulating, so that it increases and does not reduce the scope of social production and business activities. It does not even occur to anyone that the problem of budgetary and public spending is unsupervised, but it can be compensated by reviving communication with the world and regulating relations with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund (on which New Democracy has already expressed its commitment countless times and in countless ways), where there are specific funds intended for these purposes. It is understood, with additional efforts for cheaper and more rational organisation of the state and its institutions. On such grounds, reforms can be discussed in both economic and social terms. Another thing I would like to remind myself of is our five-year preparations for the adoption of a tax law on additional value (which, as a government intention, I have already quoted), which, as the backbone of the tax system, applies in a large number of states and even in some former Yugoslav republics. It is applied because it gives good results because it allows for the simplest control and because it has proved to be the most efficient in curbing the grey economy. And last but not least, what I would point to is the fact that, as a whole, and especially on the projected monthly indexation of the company tax bill, the policy offered is not only measured according to the rate of inflation achieved, but also projecting a new inflation in the coming year. It certainly can't be counted in reform behavior, it's far from any positive reform, and it's not long ago that our sad experiences that irrefutablely warn that they were always high-risk games, a chain of cars that no one ever came out of as a winner.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1058	He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1059	If what's said here is that I think it was the basis to talk about what this government is doing and whether this government is running an economic policy that seeks to ensure the growth of the social product with stable conditions of economic change, with a similar course, or whether it is going to collapse the country's economic stability. There's been so much misinformation here based on what's been said that I can't help but comment. First of all, the policy of public spending growth from what the government is proposing and doing. They're at 60%. Public consumption policy is one of the important segments of economic policy. One of the most important things the government takes care of most. Unfortunately, what you can't see is that she has to take care of not only on the revenue side, when it comes to tax laws, because that's where we're talking about providing funds for public spending. And looking at this cost-effective side of the obligations that the law imposes before the Government, in order to do so with a number of public spending obligations, all relevant facts must be taken into account. What is not known enough is that in the context of the total spending of the Republic, only one small part of spending is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Most of the spending of the Republic of Serbia is for me public spending. And it's about the pension fund and the health fund. Efforts to provide funds to service obligations are a great burden and obligation for the government, which may not be completed or implemented in general as the law provides, because unfortunately, there is not enough money and there is no fact that so much money is taken from the economy. That would be an irresponsible government policy. Mr. Arsic cited the story of how we, for example, increased spending this year compared to last year, the budget spending of the Republic from 14 billion to 16 billion. We have established the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998 of 16 billion and we will spend so much despite all the circumstances that demanded significantly higher costs. And compared to the real level of arrest, it's less real than it was in 97 years. I think that the government should expect recognitions for policy-making because it did not go to budget rebalance and it provided changes in funds to serve a number of other commitments not planned by the budget-making act. I argue that in 1998 the Republic reduced its participation in public spending, effectively reducing budget spending by 12% compared to the total average price increase this year. And that is a policy that is not achieved with ease and which produces certain difficulties. Here, a modern European tax solution is proposed. It is obvious that Mr. Arsic did not listen to what I said in the exhibition: The government's policy is to introduce this tax instrument, but I must also say that an additional value tax instrument cannot be introduced in Serbia alone, because it must be introduced in others to ensure a uniform total of the economic and economic space of Yugoslavia. There is no chance to introduce this only in Serbia, because as an example, I can say that the value added tax implies a different redistribution of sales tax revenues, because it is achieved in certain stages. This will also require adequate calculations and mechanisms of relations between Serbia and Montenegro, as most of the goods are produced here, and will be sold in the final consumption there, and most of it will be a sales tax account, they will demand part of the cake. However, it should be settled by federal law, such a law has been drafted, the government is behind it and is asking to be passed as soon as possible. But let's not have the illusion that one law that requires, first, a normative arrangement, and then an introduction, will be enforceable within a month. It is certain that we will need, from the moment we adopt the law, at least a year of preparation for moving on to a new system called - taxation of traffic through the law to an additional value. That's what other countries did. And this is not just a magic wand, it produces costs, and even has a certain inflation impact, it's all quite a serious topic to get grades from a pay phone like this, one serious work task that the government has done by making suggestions on how to improve the current tax system, and above all by collecting taxes from a part called tax ejaculation or grey economy. Well, that's where we came on the right subject and let's see who's bothering you. This bothers and this tax burdens exactly those who didn't pay for anything. That's what I have to say first. It's not a discharging policy, the government will burden them. So whoever was dealing with the sales of oil, alcohol, cigarettes, coffee, who was selling construction materials with a statement that it was for sale, and that he wasn't paying his sales tax anywhere, will suddenly be found in front of the wall, he won't be able to avoid it. And based on that kind of procedure, so from that part of business that wasn't covered by the tax liability, we figure we'll pick it up and we've said it in a fair way, with what we predicted in these other tax forms of two billion and 300 million dinars, without any increase. On the contrary, we are reducing the profit tax rate and reducing the sales tax for these products that are of interest to the population standard. At lower rates, we count on higher income. So, from that segment. If this is the wrong government policy under this proposal, I agree that we will return to this general debate. I think this is an important contribution to ensuring that both these social justices and the fair distribution of the tax burden and the collection of supplementary incomes are realised and we expect that MPs will support this proposal and that it will provide this interest, which means the disbursement of that part of the economy that has been burdened with its salaries and its fair payment of its sales tax suffered an injustice of greater burden than it should bear, because the other part stood outside such a mechanism.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1060	Are any of the MPs answering for a word? (non-announcer) I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' offices. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 178, against 8 abstentions 8, there were no 6, 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill of unions. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic and Milan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 34, against 154, no one was abstentioned, 6 did not vote, 194 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? (Milan Mikovic: I quit. You're giving up? (Milan Mikovic: It is related to the previous one, and it is not accepted. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment can be accepted. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1061	I wouldn't go out if the MPs had a text in front of them with everything that's in the law and our amendments. Therefore, we shouldn't explain anything. This is about that situation with airports and ports, where there is a special way of taxing everything, and we said in these amendments that we should not only do that, but also in all the places where customs and passport controls are provided, because that's what the bill says -- we're going to make the exception to international airports for international traffic, because we assume there's passport and customs control. And we stand at the point that it exists in other places, and at other border crossings, and we don't think it should make a difference. I have another amendment on that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1062	Anyone else want a word? (Nicho) Please Members of the People to - to determine the quorum - place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 32, against 157, without abstention, 11 did not vote, and 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I'm asking the MPs to put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 30, against 161, without abstention, four did not vote, 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Milan Mikovic from the scene: I asked him to correct himself grammatically.) Are you giving up? - Milan Mikovic. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1063	In the new Article 15, two positions have been added for the previous Article 30. I'm going to talk about this new attitude 3, which I've suggested to delete. So we figure out the rate and say, there's going to be a rate of 20, so there's going to be a rate of 9, so maybe there's going to be a rate of 2 or 3 in terms of that tax base law. But in the new position of Article 30, the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the restructuring programme of the economy and the stimulation and substitution of import products, can reduce the rate of the 1st member's position, which is 20 to 50% for certain products. What does that mean? For everything we've determined correctly, this 2 and 3, this is going to be 9, this 20, and now we're saying, it's not 20, the government can say it's going to be 10, 11, 12 to 20. Therefore, out of power, which has the Assembly to pass a regulation, which will determine which rate, this is foreseen, if we adopt today, that the Government has the possibility to reduce that rate from 20 to 10 or to any percentage between 10 and 20. That's what it says here. So it's not a small thing, it's not a small thing if we charge 10% or 20%. It can be expressed in millions, and if that's the case, then there's no reason, that if there's a need for something like that to just propose an amendment to the law in one part, that the Assembly meet and so an important issue to bring. You saw, the minister just explained, we tend to see if the rate will be 9 or 10 or 20 or 21. The government wouldn't do it if it didn't matter if it didn't give us some results, because it's going to make more or less money in our budget. Therefore, since this is a serious matter, I don't think this is something the Assembly can pass on to the government. This government, every government, any assembly, any moment. It is a very serious thing and I think that we must absolutely with full responsibility ask that the Government at any time, when it considers that there is a need for it, request a meeting of the Assembly and that such a decision be made.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1064	Thank you. He has the word Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1065	I suggest that the amendment not be accepted. The government through this member asks the Assembly to agree, which the Assembly can give it, that in certain branches and activities, to encourage a restructuring and protection programme against imports, which destroys the economic positions of branches and activities, it can obtain tax relaxation. We believe that this should absolutely be one of the instruments of incentives, which should be given to the Government as a possibility, in order to solve the current problems associated with the restructuring programmes ahead of it. I'm willing to keep it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1066	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I am asking the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum card setting in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 42, against 156, no one was abstentioned, 6 did not vote, 204 MPs present in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to the 17th amendment. Since the Government and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 17, Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, because it has accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee, which proposes to delete this member, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1067	The essence of this amendment is that when buying a passenger car, he gets the status of a basic asset, i.e. equipment. This would result in legal persons paying 2% of sales taxes, not as 23+4% so far, but as a percentage of taxes go. This would bring about a recovery of production, and thus improve the position of one of the largest industrial giants in Serbia, the flag, and address the very serious social problem of a large number of employees. I must say that about 250,000 people in Serbia are directly or indirectly linked to the Zastava Development Programmes. Then, the rise in purchases, or traffic of passenger cars. In addition to resuscitating production should be taken into account and resuscitated all accompanying elements relating to service, manufacture and sale of spare parts and the like. Without further an analysis, it is sufficient to assume that, given the favourable price of the Zastava vehicles, about 2,000 passenger cars can be expected per month. I must point out here that the recovery of a car industry in the world did not go without the intentional help of the state in which it is located. With the adoption of the bill on the recapitalisation of the flag group, which was submitted by the New Democracy parliamentary group, it would have taken five hundred million marks in five years since January. With this, we would be able to revitalise the Zastava Development Programme and would certainly resolve Kragujevac, and thus a good part of Serbia, as the immediate focus of the country's biggest social dissatisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1068	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1069	I'm showing up too much, but let me just say it, this can't be left without an answer, because it either doesn't know or we're pretending we don't know. To what extent the government of the Republic of Serbia is Serbia's auto-industry, the holder of the flag, sees, sets programmes and sets realistic goals for the flag group and for the auto-industry and real resources to help resolve the matter. What are you doing here? Here it is required not to pay a corresponding sales tax on cars, but rather to avoid practically a sales tax on cars supplied by foreign companies. It sounds nice, but I think it would further destroy all the perspectives of the flag in this situation. Why don't we say that, and import cars wouldn't be paid for that sales tax. If we look at the Law, the Law does not make any difference, but what you have not noticed about the previous amendment and member, we, in order to encourage and restructure certain actions, have provided for the right to reduce the rate by 50% and since the amendment has been adopted, means the government's authority also has to help Serbia's auto-industry to obtain an appropriate tax incentive in the part of the sale. Of course, the government has allocated over 500m dinars of money this year to maintain the consolidation process and the period of seeking a strategic partner in the context of an increased production task. The flag is tasked with producing over seven and a half thousand cars in this second part of the year. The Stock Reserve Directorate has agreed to purchase appropriate cars. In this part, I think it is completely inappropriate for the auto-industry to make amendments that would essentially allow for additional unfair competition, a narrow space, which car manufacturers have on the domestic market for a known reason, which I hope we have now closed, would have lost, and thus would have prevented them from doing so. The government certainly stands firm behind the fact that the flag complex and the flag car industry, as well as the metal company programme, is one of the important economic programs that, by means of concrete means, does not support and support the task that lies in achieving the growth of the social product and in these activities. In that sense, I suggest that the amendment given by the MP be not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1070	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic is again looking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1071	I guess we ministers didn't understand each other. It refers only to domestic production vehicles, which means that if a flag car costs seven thousand marks, with 2% of taxes, it would not pay the rest and means that the state gives up its 25% of the tax, which would encourage car production in the flag. It doesn't matter any unfair competition. You must bear in mind that 18 thousand workers in Kragujevac receive 300,00 dinars and are on forced vacation.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1072	So, through tax laws, since they had to be compatible with the laws of the world, we can't distinguish between products, but that's why we asked that we have the right to reduce rates for branches and actions that are being restructured according to government programs. The flag is on that path. That provides a difference in tax treatment. We can't write that domestic cars are paid 2%, and import cars are paid 26%. It is simply not possible, but we wrote therefore the right to halve the tax on products that are of interest to the Republic and in the restructuring program. It'll be tax-stimulation for price incompetence. As far as donations are concerned, from those pairs that we're going to collect, and especially from those other ones that we're going to pick up, as we did this year, we're going to support specifically programs that will have to have their business plan of production and that will have the task of finding a strategic partner. We think this year it's the program that got the government's biggest support. In particular, these are next to the agrarian budget, like global figures, the biggest programme supported by the government, with the largest amount of funds is the flag. They're in third place. They're in the field-mechanization program. There shouldn't be any confusion in that part. So, we, by tax-stimulation in transport, create price competitiveness on the domestic market. We support the program and we give real money for the program, but based on the production plan that the flag is accomplishing. In that domain, I think the government will lead its policy in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1073	Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs for the purpose of establishing the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The 27, against 165, ten abstentions, did not vote five, a total of 207 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by Zoran Nikolic, a national MP. He's giving up. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 40, against 163, there are no abstentions, two have not voted, a total of 205 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22, paragraph 4 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Mikovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 43, there are no 164 abstentions, two have not voted, a total of 209 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sanja Cekovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 22a. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 161 abstentions, there were no six votes, a total of 208 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MPs Dragomir Radovanovic and Life Cvetkovic and MP Sanja Cekovic. Sanja Cekovic did not withdraw the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, 160 against, no one abstained, 5 did not vote, 207 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now that it's 17.00 hours, I suggest we agree to do two more hours or 1900 hours. I've made a suggestion. I'm putting him to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to a vote on the extension of working time. For 125, against 67, one abstention, not 9 votes, 202 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going back to work. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. National MP Zoran Nikolic reformed his amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee in the work relating to item 1 of the newly proposed position 2, Article 70. Since the amended amendment of the People's Parliament has been adopted by the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Finance and a representative of the Proposer at the session of the Committee on Finance, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Please, the session isn't over. Please sit down. On Article 32, paragraph 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. They voted 22 against 142, no one abstained, 12 MPs did not vote, and 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milan Bozic, Aleksandar Milutinovic, Sanja Cekovic and Bojana Ristic have tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member 33. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to put their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The government and the Finance Committee accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee did not accept it. As soon as there was a disagreement, please, there had to be a vote. Please, the Legislative Committee was against it. The amendment was voted on by 165, against 25, with two abstentions, without four votes, with a total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. [[Applause]] Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? (don't want) Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act in general. The 183, four against, four abstentions, six did not vote, a total of 197 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Transport Tax Act. The head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1074	On the basis of Article 50. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose that point 19, a proposal for the resolution of ministers in government and the election of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be considered as the eighth point, and the other points are considered according to the order set out.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1075	Thank you. We have a proposal. Does anyone have any other suggestions? (no) I'm putting the motion to a vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to a vote. The proposal was voted by 166 MPs, 14 against, 6 abstentions, 8 did not vote, 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - A PROPOSAL FOR THE SERBIA-GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to present a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the resolution and selection of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to present to the National Assembly a proposal for the resolution and selection of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He has the word of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1076	Dear President, honourable MPs, the Government of the People's Unity of the Republic of Serbia, by establishing the Constitution and by the law of established jurisdiction, is composed of representatives of the most important political parties in the Republic of Serbia whose MPs in this assembly make up the majority necessary for the effective enforcement of the established policy in the general interest and the achievement of the necessary coalition unity. At the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party, I propose that the current member of the government from the Serbian Radical Party Dr Rada Trajkovic be relieved of his duties as minister of family care. At the same time, I propose that Dr Miroslav Nedeljković, a doctor, a specialist in pulmonary diseases from Vracjevšnica, Gornji Milanovac, be elected as Minister of Family Care. Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic was born in 1957, and the father of three children was married. I propose that MPs accept the proposals I have made because they do not question established relations in the exercise of competence and functioning of the Government of National Unity.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1077	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the government's proposal to resolve Dr Rada Trajkovic from the post of Minister for Family Care in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we formed the Government of National Unity on 24 March this year, we established the basic principles on which the Government would act. The government has been dealing with serious economic and social problems, and above all with Serbia's defence problems, protecting the territory of the Republic, the government has been dealing with crime that has begun to bite many segments of our society. In that government, first of all, we tried to discipline ministers. Ministers had to set an example of respect for the law, strict discipline, responsibilities in their work, because without such a disciplined government, without such disciplined ministers, we could not lead order into basic state structures. We will remember this government for more or less success in economic, more or less success in the social sphere. This will be addressed by citizens in the next elections. We will not be followed by dirty trails like this laughing group, which showed a real face in the Belgrade City Assembly. In this government since it was formed, for eight months now, no minister has received an apartment. We've abolished our privileges. We've been leading a life-saving policy. In July and September, they possessed us even from all sides looking for interventions about enrolment in college, so we resisted there, and there is no one who can say that we gave in, that we were dating, that we were someone's chance to pass the law, past the rules to gain some right or some privilege. It happened that a minister was bowing down after all. It is about Radi Trajkovic, I find it very embarrassing to say today because Rada Trajkovic was a prominent member of the Serbian Radical Party, she pointed out her patriotic performances and hard work both in the parliamentary group and in the party structure and in the Serbian government. But a few days ago, Rada Trajkovic tried, past the criteria to force her brother, who is the judge of the Niš Municipal Court, to be the judge of the District Court. That man's name is Radomir Vujačić. First, it failed even with the party, because we took the view that we strictly adhered to the criteria in the election of judges, that no judge can come to court because he is someone's cousin, because someone's friend, someone's acquaintance, the judge, can come to the jury's office, advance to a number of subpoenas only on the basis of concrete results in his work, reputation and trust that he enjoyed in the environment in which he acted during the previous period. Rada Trajkovic, unfortunately, went to Minister Jankovic, made a scene in the office, even cried. She tried to intervene with other prominent political officials, all in order to provide her brother with the desired position. The Serbian Radical Party simply cannot tolerate such behaviour. Our coalition partners in the Government of People's Unity, too. We will not give up on principle even if we have to say goodbye to someone in the future in this way. I'm sorry it happened, but we need to maintain discipline and we need to tell the public the truth about the whole case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1079	Thank you. There's a word from MP Milan Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1080	The replica isn't. I'm the head of that town hall that was just mentioned. In that context, we wouldn't come into the dirty laundry that's being washed up here right now, and we absolutely don't know, nor do we care, but the government is going to regulate the number of ministers by their majority, but I think they're completely inappropriate comments like this. The destruction, which is constantly being done with such objections, can only harm this city, Serbia and all of you living in this city. So you have the City Assembly for such things, it's not done in places like this, and we're very afraid that you won't defend Serbia as you've defended it so far.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1081	Who wants the next word?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1082	I'm the first time in front of the National Assembly. I am the husband of Dr Rade Trajkovic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party. For the sake of truth in front of this gathering, I must say that my wife has not resigned for those reasons stated by Vice President Seselj. My wife resigned because of the totalitarianism of Vice President Seselj [[Applause in O.R.]] , due to a lack of respect for the democratic procedure in the party, for imposing his will through his protégés, Jorganka Tabakovic and Maja Gojkovic. [[Applause in O.R.]] So it's true. My wife receives any moment of support from telegrams sent by the people of Kosovo, Metohija and Serbia. Please, every moment several hundred telegrams of support has been received, everyone congratulates her for coming forward and standing up against one such dictatorship of one party president, who unfortunately leads one party and I here solemnly declare and resign to all the functions I have had in the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1083	He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1084	It is not snowing to cover the hill, but to show that no one normal can be in the Serbian Renewal Movement. Well, you're showing it nice here today. The investigative authorities will determine everything that's happened in the City Hall, I'm convinced, in due course. All these commissions that were paid, all those marifetteluks. As for former Minister Rada Trajkovic, however, she attended a session of the Serbian Radical Party's presidency this morning. She was told today that functions would be resolved. She did not resign, except, perhaps at studio "B" in the afternoon or with her husband, Veselin Trajkovic. I am sorry for the appearance of Veselin Trajkovic, because he never said anywhere that there was any totalitarianism in the party until his wife was called to account. For a long time, the party was proud of Veselin Trajkovic, with a prominent university professor, as a man who performed patriotically, who deserved trust within the party. The party was proud of Veselin Trajkovic, his patriotic speeches, the party was proud of Radom Trajkovic and of determined public appearances that criticised the negative phenomena in society etc. At the moment she made a personal mistake, a mistake that is incompatible with the minister's moral character, the Serbian Renewal Movement was then invigorated, as it is natural behavior for them. Only relatives and friends were deployed throughout the City Assembly, 30 to 40 relatives of the Draskovic married couple, then remembered that totalitarianism existed. If totalitarianism is a matter of principle, a question of morality, then maybe it's totalitarianism. Totalitarianism is not a matter of principle, not a question of morality. Here morale gives us the obligation to tell the truth what happened. We could have kept quiet, the president of the Assembly could have passed this point of the agenda, but we're not saying this because of the Serbian deception movement, we're saying this because of the people in Serbia, and we're always going to tell that people the truth openly, clearly, until the end, even if that truth has struck us at certain times.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1085	There is a word from MP Veselin Trajkovic, in response to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1086	The tireads of Vice-President Seselj are known so far, you know, and he continues with these tirads and continues with false testimony and promises to the people, I mean the people of Kosovo and Metohija. While he had support, while Serbs could give 25 to 30 MPs, he supported the people in Kosovo. Now that so many MPs are probably not going to be, he is now disowning the Serbs from Kosovo and our Serb MPs from Kosovo. They will likely now seek support from the Albanian population.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1087	There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1088	Mr. President, just before it was said there is no one normal in the Serbian Renewal Movement. You, Mr. President, have 45 MPs in front of you who are all, in one sentence, offended and one sentence characterized, no doubt in a way that does not suit this home in any way. I think, Mr. President, it is your obligation that when such a thing is done, it is not about the direct conflict of two people, and even then it is necessary to react and it is undoubtedly necessary for the first of you, and then the rest of us, to preserve the dignity of this home. Or we are the People's Assembly of this people's markets where everything and everything is said. We ask that in one serious way, as we did today, so we end today's meeting. We won't get anything like this in the way we argue. At this point, if this should be a picture of Serbia and Yugoslavia in front of the world, we have done ourselves terrible damage. Don't let us go in that direction, don't let us be characterized by that and that kind of behavior for a whole series of years in advance, and that's why we get a picture of ourselves and our future stands.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1089	Do any of the MPs want a word? (No one) Since no one's answering, I'm closing the search. I remind you that the decision to dismiss members of the government is considered adopted if it was voted by most of the total number of MPs. This is Article 93, Section 7. The Constitution. We move to a decision on the Prime Minister's proposal for the resolution of Dr Rade Trajkovic from the post of Minister for Family Care in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to dismiss Dr Rada Trajkovic from his post as Minister for Family Care. I find that 163, seven are against it, 11 are abstentions, and 20 MPs have not voted. A total of 201 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes has resolved Dr Rada Trajkovic's role as minister of family care in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, I am opening an investigation into the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic as Minister for Family Care in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No one) Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that Article 187 of Rule 1. The Rules of Procedure on a proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia decide in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. Whether there is a proposal to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, with the way the public vote should be held. Using an electronic voting system, hand-lifting, or a roll call, it should be done. Any suggestions? There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1090	I suggest we vote publicly using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1091	Any other suggestions? (no) I find there's a quorum. I am putting on the vote by MP Steve Dragisic to decide on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia by public vote, using an electronic voting system. I find that 165, four against, two abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, using an electronic voting system, I remind you that, according to Article 92(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the decision to elect members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. Please, before joining the vote, let us determine the quorum. Please place your cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to vote the Prime Minister's proposal to elect Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic as Minister for Family Care in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. 165 voted for the proposal, against two, abstentions three, 18 did not vote, a total of 188 MPs were present. Since 165 MPs voted for the government's proposal to elect a minister in the Serbian government, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has elected Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic as the minister of family care in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the newly elected Minister for Family Care in the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the election. I ask the newly elected Serbian Government Minister to comply with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approaches to take an oath. [[Applause]] I ask the People's Messengers to stand up. DR MIROSLAV NEDELIKOVIĆ (read the text of the oath): I swear to uphold the Constitution and the Law in my work and that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with responsibility and security. I ask the newly elected Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sign and submit the text of the oath. [[Applause]] We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax on Property You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and detail. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word? (don't want) Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? ( doesn't want) I'm concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law in principle. For 132, two against, four abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, most of the votes, a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1093	(He first addresses Serbian Radical Party MPs who earn him something: "I can only talk to you over the microphone. Don't scare me." )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1094	Let the MP speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1095	I'm not here for the first time, so feel free to refrain (repeated to the MPs of the SRS), or come out, I'm not a dilettante, you don't want to confuse me...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1096	Please, please, please don't let the MPs get away from the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1097	I just want to see who's normal here and who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1098	The MP has the right to speak, and it should be made possible.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1099	I will talk here about Article 2, which prescribes a higher tax burden for the debtor who, by the residential building, owns another or more residential buildings or apartments that are not leased, by applying this solution from January 1st. It's a small comfort, gentlemen, which will apply from January 1st. I think this law can achieve positive effects where the population comes, where it settles, where it increases and where a number of people hold dead certain capital, their houses and apartments that are in excess. For Timočka krajina, for eight municipalities of Timočka krajina, this law will have disastrous consequences. I would remind you first of all of the white plague that has ruled there, where of the two households, since World War II, one has been made, which means every generation leaves an empty house. Mostly in the villages of Timočko krajina at this time between 80 and 100 houses, and somewhere and more remains empty, there are no more "live villages" in the Književci municipality, so -- residents, and to such people, it would be unfounded, because they will never be able to find someone to betray their houses, their apartments. And that this government of alleged unity -- and that's the only truth here -- did not make sure that in the last term we received the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. The spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia speaks of the following -- that, for example, in Bolovac, in a small town and a small municipality, where there are now just over 10,000 inhabitants, the population will be reduced by three thousand. Since our families in Timoko are few in number, this means that there will be 1,000 apartments or houses in Bolovac itself - extra living space, which no one will need alive. For example, there will be fewer 5,000 residents in Zajecar by 2010. It'll be somewhere around 1,500 apartments that absolutely no one will need. And the whole Timoca landscape is in this situation. I would remind you of a situation in the town of Majdanpek where you can get a three-bedroom apartment for 15,000 marks, if you find a buyer, or if you're happy to sell for that much. This means that, for Timoko, this law will not only do us any good, but besides all the accidents that have come to eastern Serbia and this law will be destructively affecting our people, it will be directed against our people's and national interests, and it will probably fill the pockets of various ministers. So here we really need to reconsider the Law and see how Timočka Krajina can get rid of this extra harrassor. You know, pensioners there don't receive any benefits based on agriculture, and people are forced to pay pension contributions, which they won't get. There's big companies. The teamland is famous for having two hydro-electrics, a mine in Bor, a mine in Majdanpek, a "Serbishum" there, so to speak, well-rooted, and they're getting out of there. But what's the main reason, why is this happening to Timoland? Because mostly the fit, which comes to the leading places of these giants, is temporary, they don't care about protecting the people in Timoko region. Their families don't live there, and they just come out, do whatever it takes for the big boss and get out of Timoko region. Please reconsider this situation. The information I have now presented to you has been found in a very representative brochure called the "Special Plan of Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1100	Thank you. He has the word Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1101	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have no replica, I have one lesson. It would be a good idea if you were at the pay phone to provide accurate information. In the Space Plan, you couldn't find that this law would fill the pockets of individual ministers, so I ask you, not to apologize, but to go out and point your finger at the minister who steals, who fills his pockets in the Government of the People's Unity and to say, Mr. MP, if you're a moral and honorable man, who steals, who's a minister full of pockets by adopting certain laws here in this assembly. I will not consider you an honorable and moral man unless you show this minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1102	Thank you. Replication response. There's a word from MP Zoran Kostadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1103	Mr. Tomo, that will be discussed by the people in charge. I am a People's MP. And you can deny what I said. I had a controversy with Mr. Minister from this pay phone when we talked about taxes and I said that there would be an increase in national giving, and he said it would shrink. Let's talk about it now. And this, I can say whatever I want, because you just said, or your president that we're not normal. Now, let me tell you one thing. One ruler in the old days brought a horse into the Senate, and here we brought donkeys into the government.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1104	He has the word Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1105	I'll stick to the subject, the Property Act. What is out of the question, about the remarks and the amendment of the MPs, is the following. The property tax is paid in relation to the market value of the facility. Objects in this area, as is said, have a low market value in total exposure, almost nothing. So these facilities are empty, but they're property, and they're practically not going to produce any big burdens on those tax bonds. Under this package, the government of the Republic of Serbia has a number of measures for underdeveloped areas, which, through tax policy, are stimulated by investment and development in areas that have an underdeveloped character. To remind me, regarding the period of exemption from corporate tax obligations, the first years of business are not paid at all, and there is the right to flat-rate taxation and a number of other measures, which should resolve the issues of Serbia's even development, in line with the document, which the MP otherwise appointed. There is also the possibility that this uninvolved property, which will burden people and have no interest in retaining it, could be used by the government of the Republic of Serbia in a programme of equal migration and settlement of Serbia. The remarks on how much of a burden will be on this basis do not stand. He will hit those people, who in the developed environments of Serbia have more houses, apartments, do not use them, and on that basis do not have documents that they have issued. They will have an obligation to pay the tax by rate, which is increased by 50%. I think it's an element of social justice and these people are going to have more significant spending on this instrument. We suggest that we stay on this topic, because, unfortunately, the tax cannot make differences in terms of cutting and covering, but relatively economic power or market value, the real difference here will be appreciated.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1106	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (no) I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act in general. For 128, against 16, no one abstained, no voted 10, a total of 154 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Commercial Taxes and Refunds You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received an amendment submitted by a group of MPs: Dr Milan Bozic, Aleksandar Milutinovic, Sanja Cekovic and Bojana Ristic, as well as an amendment of the Legislative Committee with an amendment in the text of the amendments, which was contained in the Committee's report of 16 November 1998. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do any of the messengers of the people have a word? There's a word from MP Milan Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1107	For the sake of time's economy, Mr. President and Madam and the People's MPs, I will take the opportunity to speak at the same time about the Law and at the same time about the amendment on this subject, which we have submitted. In the case of municipal taxis and utility fees, therefore, money, which is partly used for the functioning of municipal systems, the initiator or government suggests that from now on, taxes and public fees, which are charged by employers, are paid in the municipality in which he lives, so where is the residence of the working man. It's a big hit on urban continents, not just Belgrade. In Belgrade, perhaps the most, because in Belgrade the most people work from nearby municipalities that are not part of the city. That money will stay there. We had a dispute in one debate with the minister as much as Belgrade will be damaged. Different estimates are different, but in any case no less than 100 million. So the money for utility fees should remain in the municipality where someone lives, not here in Belgrade where he works. The proposal for our amendment is logical to keep it the way it was, so it's being paid into the headquarters of a company that pays the worker. This is the only possible and logical solution for a very simple reason, which is not an individual commitment of citizens, but is actually a tax paid by the employer and turns out that the city of Belgrade, and I am fully convinced and an increasing urban environment, say Kragujevac, because surely from the municipality around people come to work in Kragujevac, practically every major urban continent, will be damaged. It's an extremely dangerous thing, and it's these big urban continents that spend the most on municipal systems. City traffic in Belgrade or Novi Sad certainly costs more incomparably than any other parallel system in the smaller environment. By the way, you all have children who are studying here, although you are not from Belgrade and you live a good part of your life in Belgrade yourself, and be convinced if you do not accept this amendment, or that change, that Belgrade will have about 100 million less money for the work of the municipal system. Simply, the system will automatically be weaker, it will continue to erod, so that this is one measure that is extremely dangerous, in our opinion, because it will create a precedent and in the future others who charge various forms of compensation will tend to put it into their little blankets, concentrate money regionally, semi-fedually and literally destroy larger urban environments. It's a great danger, because you can be sure that our urban environments are in a worse situation than our urban environment, for the simple reason that the infrastructure is a failure, 10 years of war, crisis and everything that followed us. A railroad collapsed on which someone who is your political opponent is certainly not in power. After all, you are now one of those who manages the railways. But we don't need to talk like this. (He speaks to Dragan Todorovic, Minister of Transport and Communications. ( ) It is very important that the congregation understands that it is necessary to leave large urban areas with money to be taken away in this way, since they are in a difficult condition anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1108	Thank you. He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1109	We're essentially just speculating something that should have been clear from the very beginning. A fiscal form or parafiscal form called a municipal contribution is being discussed. To remind MPs, a municipal contribution has been introduced in the post-supply period, as a form provided by citizens, such as Belgrade, funds for the development of municipal infrastructure and the resolution of the city's problem. Then he was introduced as a transitional category to finish you start, and unfinished investment facilities, and after that, it was extended year after year. It is, of course, a very important source of income for the functioning of local authorities and for solving municipal problems. If we look at this genealogy and look at the essence, unlike what Mr. Christmas said, it's not an employer's expense, if we look at the legal regulations, as it did from the personal statement of every citizen in the introduction of a self-increasing contribution that his total earnings are denied part of it and paid at the expense of the self-independence, so here is the communal contribution of the fee that is calculated on the gross salary of the employee, and gross earnings is by the Constitution his right and his total income. It's about a citizen as a taxpayer, not an employer. This is normatively regulated. As there are objections as to who is going to be damaged, there are other objections, if someone has been damaged so much that someone has been costing and living in one city along with their family, and his place of work has been elsewhere and gross earnings have been left in one part where he works, not where he lives, and no communal problems are solved. I think this is completely legal. The communal contribution should be paid and so we suggested, according to the place of residence, in which the place of residence includes the place of residence and the place of temporary residence. The second thing, these problems that will arise with the balance first need to be proved. They need to be looked at, because so far these are some estimates behind which there is no data until the end clear. It will be seen entirely in the account, as it is a special account here in Belgrade, what revenue it is, whether it has fallen, it may grow, we will see, as part of Belgrade is working in Pancheva and other surrounding places that are not Belgrade's territory. Other municipalities will run for it, and otherwise we have a National Assembly before us to discuss the budget, the total public spending, of which will be the consumption of municipalities. We will have these great illogicalities, which create material problems for the functioning of local authorities, then we will be able and measured on the basis of arguments and data to look at, and there is a mechanism for recognising part of the balance in consumption that is denied by this. However, this will be a topic in the next assembly and will be much more difficult, as solutions should be sought in the overall minor economy. For now, as far as the normative arrangement is concerned, we need to accept what the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1110	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (don't want) I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. 140 MPs, against 25, with two abstentions, did not vote four, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment, with an amendment contained in the Committee's report of 16 November 1998 on Article 1. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill, as it was accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. The First Amendment was submitted by a group of MPs: Prof. Dr. Milan Bozic, Aleksandar Milutinovic, Sanja Cekovic and Bojana Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (don't want) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 22, against 140, two abstentions, six did not vote, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Do any of the MPs want to talk about the bill in particular? (don't want) Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on municipal taxes and fees in general. For 134, against 27, two abstentions, it did not vote seven, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Taxes and Refunds. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Administrative Taxes You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Nikolic, Tihomir Marjanovic, the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (don't want) Does MP Milan Mikovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? (WHISPERS) The word has a National MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1111	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, MPs, we have been changing this law since 1992 for the tenth time. And not just this law. In a group of laws we've had today, there's a lot of those we've changed 7-8 and 10 times. It is not possible to monitor which provisions are in force and which provisions do not apply. We would ask that whenever possible, in such situations a new law has been passed, even if half of the provisions have been repeated in this new law, but we write laws and write to be applied, and in order to apply them, it must be clear to him what is there and what is not. If you look at the text you gave us at the end of the Excise and Sales Tax Act, you will see that you have given us one text that does not correspond to all those provisions that you have proposed for change and proposed. I think it's in the interest of everyone, and in the interest of applying regulations more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1112	Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word, and then the minister will give an answer?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes? Mr. Milačić, as finance minister, is likely to have the most difficult task, to get out of one state of general poverty in which this society is located as long as it takes for this government and this people to make a conditional living. But poverty is not the choice of this people. Unfortunately, poverty is the choice of this government, and it does not have to be if the government leads a different policy. What about tax procedures? You know that the Serbian Renewal Movement programme has included and discussed tax procedures and the fairness of these procedures. It's normal for one who has more to pay. But here, specifically with this law, it's not about any justice, it's almost every citizen who's running any administrative dispute with the state in a position to pay five times as much in the name of every administrative fee. Starting with the most insignificant, the most banal, of conviction, of someone asking to receive a copy or a duplicate of a right, he must conduct a dispute in which he will already be placed in a position of subjugation in advance, as anyway a citizen in a administrative dispute against the state and its institutions is always in a subordinate position. His position will be even more subordinated when he has to pull out his wallet and pay these very large taxes. As you have seen and as Mr. Mikovic has said, the fees are minimum three, and the rich are five times larger than the ones that have so far been valid. The annual fees, according to the government's proposal, should be close to a billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's a lot of money. I am deeply convinced that the citizen will react most to the application of this law. I think that in my opinion, therefore, the Government should withdraw this law and offer it in a new version at one of the next sessions of this assembly. I suppose the needs of the government and the needs of the budget for next year could probably be met with a significantly lower amount of tax on the name of administrative services. Otherwise, what I don't want to do to Mr. Milacic will happen - that he may be recorded in the history of our country as the minister who has deeply dragged his hand into the otherwise empty pocket of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1114	Thank you. The word has Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1115	Thank you for wanting me to, and I want to, I have to say, but I have to do what I'm supposed to do and I have to do what I'm supposed to do with being realistic. So the fact is that every valorization and increase means one unpopular act. The issue of administrative fees is -- what is administrative tax. The administrative fee is the price of public authority services for some of the rights to be obtained. We must try to pay directly for the one who rightly achieves it by obtaining a favor from the state. We can keep an administrative fee at zero, but then we'll reach right in the pocket that needs to be based on some general tax to give that money to the authorities to do what they need to do as a state service to the citizen in question. And it's a kind of injustice. This is, to say the direct payment of the work of the administration. It should be borne in mind, with all the unpopularity I accept to be present, the fact that this was last changed in 1995 and that it would be in effect in 1999. I wish that the other costs and other invoices that happen between us in our economic life have this tendency. We probably wouldn't even need to valorize this administrative fee today, then. For these reasons, I remain on the proposal to perform the valorisation. I accept, not as a personal point of view, but I must say that the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance has concluded that the possibility of publishing the single tax laws in the consolidated text is considered. People who know these laws better than I claim that the Legislative Committee should be tasked with publishing the consolidated text of all the laws on which we are now making amendments and additions, i.e. that a formal decision must be made on these laws at the meeting of the Assembly. Let the Assembly consider the possibility and the need to eventually, as the first point of the next session of the Assembly, cleanse these laws and may be a quick working session where only by lifting our hands we have now adopted these laws, but in a consolidated text. It is not impossible, it is accepted as a task, if the Assembly concludes it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1116	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 141, 24 against the abstentions, two MPs did not vote, a total of 167 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. To Article 2. Tariff number 3d. The amendment was submitted by MP Tihomor Marjanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (no) I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 25, 135 against, no one abstained, 16 didn't vote, 166 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 2. Tariff number 3dj. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Since the amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 2. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Financial Committee. Since the amendment of the Finance Committee has been adopted by the Government and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To Article 2. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic. The government has accepted this amendment essentially. By accepting this amendment of the Finance Committee to this member, it has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, as it was essentially accepted by the amendment of the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment can be accepted. Does MP Dragan Nikolic remain in his text of amendments or accept a solution accepted in the amendment of the Finance Committee, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1117	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1118	Thank you. Since the MP has accepted, there is no need for us to vote and become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? (no) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes in general. For 141 against 28, the abstentions are gone, four have not voted, 173 MPs are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on COMMUNITY You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment to the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendment. You have received a report from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do any of the messengers of the people want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger of Spasoje Krunic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1119	Ladies and gentlemen, I know there's little time, and I think it's very important because we consider this law to be good and beneficial. It would be a shame if things like that didn't happen because of those who put us in this room. The 1997 law, which made the biggest contribution precisely to include private enterprises and private capital in the municipal systems, has made a very significant shift, harmonised what is offered as a possibility in the Constitution, but unfortunately it has determined only five years of residence and the validity of such a contract. That, of course, wasn't enough. The Serbian Renewal Movement has made a lot of efforts and therefore wants to affirm the government's decision and the consent of the relevant committees to show up at today's meeting and to move the limit for which the contract can exist to 25 years. It's consistent with what exists in a civilized world, and it's a time when money can be recovered, because experience, especially in countries that are in changes like ours, says that for the first five to seven years, the only one who invests is the one who needs the rest to get his money back. It's no wonder when it's known that our country's utility systems are very devoid and that there's a lot to be invested, regardless of what we all know today. It counts, those who have so far, Belgrade, as far as the talks are concerned. They were unable to make any arrangements with Belgrade in five years, regardless of whether it was water treatment, transportation, or any of the other systems. They insisted, asked the law to comply with real possibilities. What needs to be reminded today, and I believe that you know that and what citizens need to know, that the prices of municipal services are still in the government's jurisdiction, and we believe that one contract that passes all that this law requires must be given the consent of the Republic government, that the appropriate prices will be in that and the kind of slight increase that citizens are able to endure and that the system could at all survive and that whoever invests could recover their money and make it better for everyone. In other words, the systems should be removed from the budget and the budget used for those areas that are non-profitable and which should have help from the budget. One segment in Article 8, which is not subject to replacement, will certainly be the subject of our further consideration and I ask you to bear in mind that it stands there that in order to carry out the municipal activity of public lighting the contract is concluded with the company which distributes electricity in a specific area by direct contract. Since one who distributes electricity in Serbia has a monopoly, it is difficult to guess that we in Belgrade are satisfied with the level of lighting, so in further contact with the government we will try to find a solution for lighting in our cities as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1120	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 173, against two, one abstention, one did not vote, a total of 177 MPs were present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? (No one) Since no one is answering for a word, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on municipal activities in general. For 171, no one, two abstentions, and two MPs did not vote. Present in the 175-seat room. I find that the National Assembly has largely adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Works. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the principles and conditions of recognition of the right and the return of the land that has passed into the social property on the basis of the Poljoprivred Fund and the confiscation of unsettled obligations from the purchase of semi-revival products you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from MP Mr Tihomir Marjanovic. National MP Mr Tihomir Marjanovic, at a session of the Finance Committee, gave up the amendment he proposed to amend Article 12 of the applicable Law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At a session of the Legislative Committee, MPs Milan Mikovic and Zoran Jovanovic issued opinions. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do the people's messengers who have given their opinion want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1121	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Law has such a title that if a full name was read, or full text, I would have run out of time. Since the law is short and Article 1 is undeniable, I will read Article 2 and Article 3 of this Act. (read) Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when in certain political circles in this multi-parliamentary assembly, it was necessary to support the wider electoral body that you remember the injustice that was committed by the laws implementing the nationalisation of agricultural land of all the owners who had over 10 hectares in 1953. Then the Agricultural Land Fund Act was passed, so I would take this opportunity to honor the late Milos Moskovljevic, the only national MP in the National Assembly of Serbia who then voted against the law on the agricultural land fund. A beautiful idea was the SPS government's idea ahead of the first December elections in 1990 to correct this injustice, as the removal of land to owners of more than 10 hectares of farmland and those of those who could not meet the obligations of mandatory ransom was made by confiscation. I've had opportunities in my long-standing legal practice at the time of entry into force and application of this law to look at court decisions from 46 to 49, when people are given a symbolic 20-day prison sentence due to non-execution of mandatory ransom and confiscation of all mobile and immovable property. So it was realized that it was wrong and that it had to be returned. The law is well-conceived: The land that is located in social property on the day of that law's entry into force is returned, and for that land that is alienated, which does not meet the conditions for returning former owners have the right to cash compensation. The law has established a subsidiary responsibility, if the agricultural organisation in which the land is located is unable to return, returns the municipality, if it cannot return the municipality, to the Republic. At the session of the Legislative Committee, I asked the Federal Finance Minister how much in the practice of implementing this law, the Republic of Serbia has paid off money on the basis of the subsidiary responsibility of legal descendants of earlier owners, and I received the answer that it was zero dinars. What's going on now? It now eliminates this subsidiary responsibility of the Republic of Serbia and limits responsibility only to agricultural organisations that do not exist in fact and are at stake. So, those people who had a ray of hope that this law, which was passed in 91, would be corrected by injustice, for which they waited for 50 years to be executed. Now, in the next 10 years, in four years, they will be compensated. If that organization can't pay, doesn't pay for the municipality, doesn't pay for the Republic. Draža has taken away and the state has to correct this injustice and the overwhelming state of its resources, whether it is as some in the election campaign said by selling a villa to the Daedina or by some other means, that it is also obliged to carry out this compensation. The most interesting thing here is that the legislator says that for the commitments made under Article 1 of this article, interest is paid at the level of growth prices to a small extent, and according to the latest figures of the Republic authority responsible for statistics affairs. This is falsely referred to as "katata." Because coordinating some monetary value with statistical data at the rate of growth to a little is not a mugging, but a retention of the value that would be devoid of inflation. Therefore, the promoter uses the term - no interest in interest at all. The most controversial provision is the provision of Article 3 which is given a retroactive fact. Let me explain what this formulation means. What does that mean if a man has a solution to the municipal court in Cačka since 24 October 1995, where compensation for the seized land of the former owner was set, Proposed Milan Ćalovic from Belgrade, Veri Jagodic from Užica and Predrag Ćalovic from Beljina near Cačka and Vitomiru Ćalovic from Cačka each of 888,964,57 dinars. That was when one dinar was one mark. People are conducting the procedure and it is normal that the organisation that alienated this land from social property was informed, it is the Public Enterprise of the EPS Drinska hydropower plant and these proposings launched an executive procedure with the Court of Justice in Baja Basta on 23 January 1996, which brought a solution to the execution and blocked the jury account of that public undertaking. But what do you do next? That public enterprise, probably former or present, most likely the former and current government of the Republic of Serbia, is not working through that jury account, but is being used by some other means of payment. Here's a copy of the Payment Office where it is said that in 6:12.1997, payments were made by association of the company "Geotechnika" - Shareholder's Society, meaning debtor and "Geotechnika" have a mutually debt-confidential relationship in order to play the trustees. Proposers also obtained confirmation from the Institute for Accounting and Payments in Baja Basta, where the jury's EPS Hidor Power Plant account has been blocked since 24.06.1997 and is said to be 3.700,000.00 dinars per day. The data received by the trustee is required to keep it as a business secret, so it stands in the copy, and the certificate is issued as evidence to settle the demand and cannot be used for other purposes. And what is the cream on cakes is a letter from the current minister of justice who sent a circulatory letter to all the presidents of municipal courts in Serbia, which was listed at the justice ministry under the number 46-00-7/98-01 since 21.07.2018 (galama in the hall). Here, I have a copy and anyone can read it. Instead of protecting the law and making sure that these citizens exercise their right, he literally writes to the presidents of municipal courts as follows: "In view of the numerous conversions of courts and other entities to the Ministry of Justice, which are linked to difficulties in the execution of legal decisions relating to the payment of fines to former landowners, we inform you that at a session held on 9 July 1998, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at a session held on 9 July 1998, has established a bill on amendments and amendments - and that I am not reading further, but only the final position: "In light of the fact that, depending on the state of financial resources, we recommend that the possibility and need be met with the execution of those judgments until the final adoption of the law is passed." Please, the Minister of Justice knows that the Executive Procedure Act does not know the institute of impasses in the process. This is the rule - to decide in the procedure of a solution, conclusion or possible pacification of the procedure, if it is to be followed by the Law on Procedural Procedure. But the minister of justice... (galama's getting stronger).
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1122	Please be kind, bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1123	Mr. President, I have five minutes, since that's how long it's been tossing.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1124	No, you don't have five minutes. Here, you already have a minute on that throw.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1125	Here is Mr. Jovan Krkobic, who also throws away, instead of taking care of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1126	Mr. Jovanovic, it is not for you to warn, I will warn.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1127	For everything I've said, I have written documentation and for these reasons, the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group cannot support a proposal to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1128	Who's next to the word? Pantelia Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO Parliament Club cannot accept this bill in principle or in particular. Why? Because he doesn't oblige anyone to do any damage. A wave of Bolshevisms clapped our people over the backs of the village hosts, across the backs of all who possessed something. The only sin of these people was that they possessed something and were according to their definition of anti-communists. They couldn't accept the collectiveization, because they knew it wasn't going anywhere. They've experienced what they've experienced. Why do you act like you're a rebel when, by your definition, you're an anti-communist? And after 50 years we want to correct the decades of injustice. Shall we? With this law, no. The government may have wanted to show good intentions, but good intentions are a paved road to hell -- says Dante. Let's pass a law that fully rehabilitates these people and completely decomposes them. I wrote because I was one of those who suffered that injustice. [[to comment from the bench why he writes it]] After all, Mr. President, warn the ministers that they're small-scale, they're big physical, but they should grow a little bit and be big and behavioral.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1130	Don't throw it away!
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1131	And that the government had no fair intention of depriving the damaged to the end the sentences in the text, which said, "The proposed solution is expected to prevent a large number of agricultural organisations from ending their work." So this spoiled child, created by the past regime, which this regime has repeatedly defended, has been spending 50 years unearthed and spending money on those who earn and Serbian agriculture is pushing the way of Somalia. Instead of today 10 million people in these areas being fed quality food, because we have conditions, today we have a situation to feed very unqualityly because of the government's policy on the scene. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Seselj said at the last session: Gentlemen peasants, we have done a lot, we could also not buy you wheat at the price of 1.20 dinars and we could go out on the market and buy half as cheap. They could, and maybe they didn't. Maybe someone would have been arrested if they had gone beyond the borders of this country, but it's also -- if this government hadn't supported the federal government's measures with which the federal government restricts, or determines companies that can deal with bread grain traffic, and we'd probably have sold producers on some of our markets at far higher prices. After all, we allow the government not to take care of us this way as it takes care of us. Because with this kind of behavior she digs up the pit, but I hope that the people will catch them: "Whoever digs the pit itself will fall into it." The cash compensation, according to the following text, established by the court shall be paid within 10 years in equal three months of the war, and at the end of the year from the date of the judicial decision. And you could have added another sentence: we will pay in the next 10 years or dots, so given the material condition of the village hosts, who have been brought into this situation because of the government's policy, they may need to buy clothes to dots and bonuses over the next 10 years to their children. But let's not fight. If you pass this law, there will be another nationalisation and it is greater injustice than it was when it began. So there's a ransom on the scene, this isn't a sale, this is after 10 years, handing over everything the peasant produces, so if someone happens to be unable to produce what the government expects, then the existing property can also be nationalized and confiscated. I ask you to withdraw this bill, on behalf of all the village hosts, from the procedure and to align the interests of the damaged, and to the general benefit of the society. This way, we protect the colhos and the further development of agriculture is impossible. This is true, gentlemen, go to the stands all over Serbia and tell the villagers, so say so. It's easy to throw from the parliamentary benches -- "not likely." And I answer to you, I guess. This kind of government policy burys the Serb village and will return to social unrest in large urban areas as a boomerang. Please advise, Government, to withdraw this text from the procedure and bring it into line with the interest of the damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1132	Thank you. He has the word Zoran Kostadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1133	Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate this bill, and I think it's one of the few laws that can show that we want to get close to the West. Very often when we want to say something, especially when the minister was saying it, he says -- it's also by Western patterns, we always take the west as a role model. In Timoko, people are quite well informed about what is happening in Romania and Bulgaria. They've passed one of these laws a long time ago, but they've adopted it in a better way. They put it back wherever they could. There was no social property left with them like some rest, which would be a distraction to return the property. Anyway, maybe not all of them, but in most cases it's back. This is one of the laws that would really show us to the world as a democratic country, as a country that has left the dictatorship of proletariats, as a multi-party country, and a country that rehabilitates a part of our people, which is neither guilty nor indebted, especially at the time of a forced ransom, suffered, humiliated, shamed and robbed. It would be good if at this point this law were withdrawn from the procedure and let it go to a broad folk discussion and necessarily called and damaged side, meaning that side, which went through the cadamats, the pulling of the mustaches, which was suffered by these laws, which were then passed in the one-party system. So without their consent and their opinion on this law, we will find it very difficult to come up with the right solutions. I believe that almost no one among you was even born or were all young and there is no need for this civil war conflict to continue in Serbia. Serbia must become a democratic country, like any other country, which surrounds it and that there is no more fear in it, no more force and lawlessness. And that's what we're going to do, that's exactly how we're going to do it if we put that damaged side into discussion about this law. It's not just on that basis, we still have a lot of problems. The property to the Karadjordjevic dynasty has not been returned. Many people, who were accused, who belonged, so to say, to the other side, the nationalist side of the civil war, were not returned. This is really a good topic. This good law would bring us closer to the world and take that eagle off us if we were still a communist, one-party and dictatorial state.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1134	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, the Law on the Return of Land and Payment of the same, which has been confiscated because of the unmistakable obligations of the compulsory purchase of agricultural products, should be welcomed, if nothing else, then for one great injustice done to the peasants 50 years ago. The law was to be passed and adopted much earlier, so that those unfortunate who took away the land could feel in their lives the joy of righted wrongs over them. The forced purchase of agricultural products, as the first word itself indicates, was carried out under duress, often and very repressively, had to be delivered, did not wonder how. The second word - the ransom - means that by the search engine, the state, the ransom is compensated. And it's compensated so that if the goods were worth 100 dinars, the actual value of a tenth of the goods was actually compensated, and that's in bonuses. With bons, she could pick up some goods, like a piece of textiles, some tools, some dishes. The forced purchase of agricultural products was carried out only in Serbia and Vojvodina. Not in Kosovo. In other federal units of the former Yugoslavia - Slovenia, Bosnia, Croatia, Montenegro, has not been implemented. It happened that the quota for a household, for example, of two tonnes of wheat, was inconclusive because it had only one ton, so the manufacturer was forced to offer some household valuables, such as ducats to another host, who had some small market surpluses, to settle his own debt in the ransom. But many peasants could not meet the conditions of the ransom, so their country was confiscated, often all of them had, and they were declared state enemies and sentenced to prison for several years. And now it's said that Zabela was never so filled with prisoners as she was in the time of the ransom. Many peasants died in the case, and many also shortened their lifespan after leaving the prison from the aftermath of the darkness. Dear fellow MPs, anyone who has read Danko Popovic's novel "The story of Milutin" knows how the first World War I Thessaloniki ended in prison, which was condemned on the basis of unmistakable commitments from the mandatory ransom. As I initially commended the initiative to pass land return laws, so I think the law itself is very bad and to the harm of peasants. The legislator, or government, seemed to try to extend the injustice for another ten years after the injustice of 50 years. How else do you interpret return and payment under Article 12 of the Law on the way and conditions of recognition of the right and return of land? Article 12. b) of the Law states: When the amount of cash compensation has been determined by the competent court, compensation shall be paid in equal three - month wars within 10 years. I ask that Article 12b be amended in this House of Assembly that, if paid, it should be paid immediately after the judicial decision, no later than one year and in 12 months of war. I also believe that arable countries have enough to return to state property, which, according to many national agricultural goods, is in the parloga, is not being processed. Perhaps it would be best to change the law in general, because the one that today in this house will be voted by the congregation majority is not good in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1135	He has the word of Ambassador Nebojsa Atanakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1136	Dear fellow Members of the People, Your Honor, I would like to say before I say anything about this proposal that we may all ask ourselves together whether we are in favour of injustice, and you must agree with me that it has been a general social consensus since 1991 that this is an injustice, it should be removed. Each of us can have one or the other opinions on certain provisions of the law. It is also clear that whoever makes the law, who proposes it and we who adopt it can be wrong, we can simply disagree whether it is better or not, but the basic thing is that we have to really try to agree that it is the correcting of historical injustice, that it is that this country like other countries that have made similar injustices must, in order to be placed in order of the other countries of the world, that this injustice is indeed the right way of correction, and I am afraid that this change of the law that is currently in force does not guarantee what I'm talking about. Among other things, I was asked by the League for the Protection of Private Property and Human Rights, which has its own exposures, its members, its organisation in more than 30 cities in Serbia, they wrote me a public statement in which they consider this solution in the Law to be an announcement of another forced purchase of agricultural and construction land. Furthermore, here I have another letter that comes from a similar association, it is the Association of Citizens for the Return of Taken Property from Somboro, but it is interesting that they are calling for the current legislation to come from now on that it is the owner of land, which, in social property, has come from the confiscation of former owners, the Republic, and therefore the Republic of this law cannot transfer the obligations resulting from such acquired property to some other entities, to legal persons, in this case some agricultural organisation, or to municipalities. I'm not a lawyer, and on that side I can't quite say what this is, but it seems logical, to me, to be realistic, that if it's property in the property of the state, that the state should be behind the compensation of those former owners that that country was taken from. I would agree, I could agree and even respect the reasons that are pragmatic and that it should not sometimes be touched into some round property. Whether it was some agricultural combinations or some other cases, since it can often be reflected in the business of these economic operators. On the other hand, however, we advocate ownership changes, we advocate privatisation, and in some ways I think it might be possible to think a little bit more about it in this proposal and try through some kind of privatisation to remove this injustice. So, on the one hand, we have new latinists, we have even many members of some parties who say they are left orientations, which have thousands of hectares of land currently being bought, and on the other hand, those heirs who have left it and who are supposed to remain this way are being damaged. At the very end of the line, these solutions could go away if it wasn't quite so noticeable, and my predecessors who spoke of this law said that they weren't trying to damage the owners in a fair way. So it could be ten years, and it could be similar to this, but it would have to be introduced by some real indicators that wouldn't be worth anything during that second period of payment that's being paid.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1137	There's a word from MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1138	Dear President, fellow MPs, it is well known who initiated this law in 1991, and I am provoked by the discussion of my predecessors, given that none of them have so far said in which degree the law was implemented. Over 90% of the people who had the right under this law made it happen. These additions and amendments to the Law in fact constitute a very real basis for those to whom it is owed, to settle in the most realistic way, and also to make sure that certain economic organisations and businesses, and hence the budgets of municipalities, function normally. The legislator also made sure that the value of land that is now assessed and through executive judgments is counted on the rise in prices to a small extent. It is an institute that revolves the value of one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1139	I will speak as always very briefly, because we Serbian radicals always speak briefly and clearly. I'd say some of the previous speakers just cried at someone else's cemetery. Most of them I believe are neither affected nor damaged by this or by the previous law. So they have no interest in talking about it and representing someone else. I am a typical representative of those who, they say, should be damaged by this law. My family was temporarily deprived of a huge amount of land, it was supposed to come back, some of it was returned, and in that direction I would suggest to the Ministry of Finance that if there is still, if there is, and where there is agricultural land, it would be realised as soon as possible. However, the fact is that there are now other compensations that have not been settled for farmers, these debts, therefore, have been done great injustices and I agree there, but are now in debt to some social firm or anyone who is in debt. You know that municipalities can't settle these debts, you know what our municipal budgets are like, you know what the situation in the Republic is like. Should the Republic be charged with that? If we follow this new law that provides for direct debtors to settle, those who are the country's current owners now, should we burden them to this extent to block their giro-accounts, to shut down these companies and to put them away after that injustice that was committed 50 years ago today, to make another injustice and to leave many people out of work today, to shut down many companies, to bring them truly into an uninvited situation. I don't think it should be done, though my family and I have once been damaged by this law long ago, but believe me, World War II has lost many heads, and after World War II, laws have been passed by which some have lost their property, but it's all past. Today, you have to watch how you survive and it's of no interest to me or my family to shut down some company that would settle our debts to our country, which we haven't owned in 50 years. So, who hasn't managed to stabilize his household in 50 years, who hasn't managed to secure his existence to date, I don't think he should be able to make peace by making a lot of people unhappy and some firms shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-11-17-0.u1140	Anybody else answer for a word? (no) I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. For 152, against 23, with no abstentions, no five, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We'll talk about the law in particular tomorrow at 10.00. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 154 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are enough MPs and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the way and conditions of recognition of the right and the return of the land that has passed into the social account on the basis of the semi-performing land fund and the confiscation of the non-execution of obligations under the OBLIGATION REFERENCE OF CERTAIN PRODUCTS I remind you that at yesterday's session we held a general search on the 13th point of the agenda and that the National Assembly accepted the proposal for this law in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 2, which was proposed to add a new member of 12b, the amendment was submitted by MP Mr Tihomir Marjanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (no) (Employer Marjanovic gave up the amendment. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 3. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 137(3). The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, specifically determine whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee has assessed that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 3. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? (no) I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give the provision of Article 3. The draft law has a return fact, for which there is a general interest. For 152, against 26, abstained 5, did not vote 6, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority, has found that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 3. It's a bill of law. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
