ParlaMint-RS_1998-04-06-0.u293	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 184 MPs attend today's session. However, in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. We have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Zoran Jovanovic and Dusan Mihajlovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group that the new president and deputy president of this parliamentary group are MPs Stevo Dragisic and Igor Mirovic, and the Yugoslav left parliamentary group that the new president of this parliamentary group is MP Milan Rodic. You were presented with the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 24 March 1998. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 24 March 1998. I conclude the vote and declare that 207, against no one, with five abstentions, has voted five, a total of 217 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 24 March 1998, without objections. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the session be placed on the agenda as the first item and, as an emergency procedure, consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 1998. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I would like to vote on the proposal of the Government of Serbia to include the first item in this session as part of the agenda and to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: For 203, against eight, abstentioned one, did not vote eight, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that following an urgent procedure, the proposal for a decision to call a republican referendum to state Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 1998. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft decision to call a Republic referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. I conclude the vote and declare that 207, against seven, abstentioned, no one voted six, a total of 220 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that following an urgent procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the commission for the implementation of the Republic's referendum to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 1998. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the commission for the implementation of the Republic's referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. I conclude the vote and declare that 207, against eight, abstentioned one, has not voted seven, a total of 223 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. 4. The Serbian Renewal Movement Group has proposed that the first item of the agenda be complemented by a proposal to ask citizens for a statement in addition to the citizens' statement on the proposed issue: "Are you for a red-and-white tricolor as a flag of Serbia and that the two-headed white eagle, Nemnjević, be the coat of arms of Serbia". Since that proposal is not prepared in accordance with Article 132. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. it was not submitted in the form of a proposal for an act, which the National Assembly could decide on, I realize that they did not get the conditions to extend the agenda by this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure, i.e. for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, we need to make a statement on the agenda of the session, in general. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda, in general. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 205, against seven, abstentioned one, did not vote 11, a total of 224 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, in general, most votes. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative (emergency procedure), 2. Proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija (emergency procedure), 3. A proposal for a decision on the education of the commission for the implementation of the Republic's referendum in order to declare Serbia's citizens whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija (emergency procedure). We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative You have been given the draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 197, against eight abstentions, no one voted 13, a total of 218 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative in general. I conclude the vote and declare that 205, against nine, abstentions, were not voted by eight, a total of 222 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative by majority vote. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 186 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are enough MPs present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Zoran Jovanovic, Zvonimir Budic, Bojan Kekic, Dusan Mihajlovic, Kasa Jozefui Secei Mihal. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I remind you that at yesterday's session, the National Assembly adopted a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the referendum and the People's Initiative. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – The proposal for a decision on the registration of the Republic of Serbia to declare the citizens of Serbia whether they accept the participation of foreign representatives in the resolution of problems in Kosovo and Metohija you have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Marjanovic.
