ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1468	I ask the MPs to take their seats to begin our work. Dear People's MPs, I am opening the fourth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. According to official records, 212 MPs attend today's session. However, in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, we do so by electronic means, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. We have a quorum, so the National Assembly can work normally. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Duško Radenović, Dr Zivorad Djordjevic, Dr Karol Kasas, Bogoljub Janicevic, Živoj Jovanovic, Dusan Mihailovic and Šemsudin Kučević. I would like to inform the National Assembly that the meetings were called to be attended by the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. You were presented the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 7 and 8 December 1998. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 7 and 8 December 1998. A total of 209 MPs were present to vote for 198, against no one, with two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, held on 7 and 8 December 1998, without objections. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conditions for the operation of the transport of goods, the provision of services in the transport of goods and inspection services, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 1998. I ask the People's MPs to put their cards in MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the conditions for the operation of the transport of goods, the provision of services in the transport of goods and inspection. The vote was 196, against three, abstentioned four, did not vote 16, a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law supplementing the House Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law supplementing the House Act. The vote was 197, against 8, with three abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 218 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages. The vote was 198, against 10, with two abstentions, did not vote 12, a total of 222 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. The vote was 178, against 17, with 22 abstentions, did not vote 6, with a total of 223 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 5. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment Law and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons. 178, against 16, abstentions 21, did not vote 6, a total of 221 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Six. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the People's MPs to put their cards in MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. The vote was 177, against 20, abstentioned 16, did not vote 5, a total of 218 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Seven. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 1998, be considered after an urgent procedure. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in the MPs' units. I find that we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings. The vote was 195, against 9, the abstentioned three, did not vote 19, a total of 226 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. 8. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the termination of the law on special rights and obligations of elected persons be considered after an urgent procedure. The bill with the same legal solutions was submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement -- Milan Mikovic, Veroljub Stevanovic and Milija Sekulic. Since this issue has been fully regulated by the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the bill submitted by these MPs, there is no need for the National Assembly to be particularly declared. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the termination of the law on special rights and obligations of elected persons. 212, against three, abstentions four, did not vote four, a total of 223 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Proposals to expand the agenda. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that the agenda of this session be complemented by the item - Termination of functions and selection of judicial officers, which would consider the proposals for decisions, which were sent to the National Assembly by the Committee on Justice and Administration and to be the first item of the sitting agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to supplement the agenda of this session - Termination of functions and selection of holders of judicial functions and to be the first item of the sitting agenda. 175, against one, abstentioned 19, did not vote 20, a total of 215 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The committees, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will, if they have not already done so, submit their reports or opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. Before that, I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. The vote was 199, against one, abstentioned three, did not vote 16, a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly of Most Votes established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Termination of functions and selection of judicial holders, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conditions for the operation of the transport of goods, the provision of services in the transport of goods and inspection controls, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Housing Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Exercise Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Special Rights and Obligations of Selected Persons, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary that the National Assembly, before moving to work on the agenda of the session, make a decision on Members of the National Assembly at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the Administrative Board. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a unique search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put the motion for a decision on Members of the People's Parliament on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was 195, against no one, with one abstention, who voted 21, a total of 217 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision on Members of the People on Permanent Work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Stop the function and choose the bearers of the judicial functions within this point you have received: 1. The request of the Republic Public Prosecutor for termination of office and a motion for a decision on the termination of the position of the Republic Public Prosecutor, which was established by the Committee for Justice and Administration at the session of 27 December 1998. In addition, you also received the conclusion of the Committee, withdrawing the motion for a decision on discharge from office, set by the Committee at its session of 23 December 1998. 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial office of the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Administrative Court of Pristina, which was established by the Committee for Justice and Administration and 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Republic Public Prosecutor, which was established by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single investigation into the motion for a decision to terminate the role of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the position of the Republic Public Prosecutor. The vote was 180, against four, abstentioned 32, did not vote 7, with a total of 223 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Court of Commerce in Pristina. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, place their cards in MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Court of Commerce in Pristina. It was 190, against no one, with 25 abstentions, who voted nine, a total of 224 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single investigation into the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude a unique search and move on to a decision. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. The vote was 180, against four, abstentioned 34, did not vote four, and a total of 222 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision by majority. I remind you he's a member of 35. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Office found that the Republic Public Prosecutor took an oath before the National Assembly before taking office. Is the candidate there? Yeah. I ask Mr. Dragiš Krsmanovic, the Republic Public Prosecutor, to take an oath. Here you go. I ask the People's Messengers to stand up. (Republic Public Prosecutor Dragisa Krsmanovic reads about the speaker the text of the oath: "I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work, that I will do my duty in the Public Prosecutor's Office with security and impartiality and that I will protect constitutionality and legality." I ask the Republic Public Prosecutor to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate Mr Dragisa Krsmanovic on your behalf and on my behalf and wish him much success in his work. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the conditions for the release of goods, the provision of a service for the transport of goods and inspection supervision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, which also contain amendments to those committees on the draft law. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of Minister of Trade Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1469	Ladies and gentlemen, during 1996, the National Assembly passed the Law on conditions for the provision of transport of goods, the provision of goods and inspection services. During 1997, one amendment to the law was made. As part of the operational measures, the prevention of the causes and roots of the grey economy is estimated to require an amendment to this law. The proposal you received is fully in line with the tax changes that were passed a month ago in the National Assembly, and the reason why some changes are proposed here, is to specify some of the standards that led to the situation of the authorities applying this law in several ways. This law practically specifies some norms and also eliminates the causes, and I would especially point out at a discount in wholesale sales, also to potentiate the sale of excise products without excise stamps. As an illegal trade, I would like to specify the specific provision of Article 8a, which gives the possibility, i.e. the right and obligation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that, when circumstances arise on the market, that measures of current economic policies cannot remove any non-market action and some non-market behaviour, the government can intervene precisely to preserve the stability of markets and the stability of prices in our market. Some provisions relating to the keeping of regulated records in the transport of goods are also specified. The purpose of these changes is to record total traffic, not only because of what follows as a commitment to the state, but also because of the need to protect our consumers. I would also point out a provision relating to commissions of services, which is specified by the dacomitent, a natural person could no longer give goods on the commission of sale, if they are life supplies, if it is excise products, and if it is technical means, it is subject to the obligation to have a guarantee list, technical instruction, list of authorised repairers. In light of the change in the Law of Infringements, a whole series of amendments to the criminal provisions are carried out, i.e. criminal norms, which are in line with the single and maximum fines for those offences. I would also point out a provision that practically prescribes a penalty on the spot for the buyer where the market inspector can say, I say, if the buyer participates in the violation of the rules on the traffic of goods. We may also be the first ministry to benefit from the authority, which gives us a practically amended Law on Infringements, a first-time infringement procedure, for those offences where only fines as the main penalty are intended, may be conducted by the Market Inspectorate, or the Ministry of Trade. I am taking the opportunity to point out that with legislation, i.e. the Committee on Lawmaking and the Committee on Trade and Tourism, we have agreed and found some legal and technical solutions, which fully satisfy and enable the Ministry of Trade to be the most specific part of this ministry, the Market Inspection, to be even more operational and more efficient in work, for, above all, the protection of our consumers and full insight into the regulated traffic of goods and services on our market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1470	Thank you. Does MP Milan Mikovic, who has issued an opinion, want a word? Milan Mikovic is not here. Do any of the MPs want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1471	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, the Committee on Trade and Tourism fully supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conditions for the operation of goods transport, the provision of goods and inspection services, as it is a function of preventing the gray economy and the introduction of goods into regular flows. This is in line with the definition and programme, both the Federal and the Republic Government. No doubt there was in practice abuse in the traffic of goods for which excise duties are paid, as well as in commission and discount sales. I expect that the proposed legislative provisions, which the minister also spoke of here, which sell products without excise stamps, for which it is prescribed, will be considered unauthorized, thus creating a legal basis for the effective functioning of the market inspection, significantly reducing the avoidance of excise payments and introducing more order in the area of commissions and discount sales, both for the protection of consumers and for the equality of goods subjects. It is realistic to expect that there will be difficulties in the goods transport sector in the coming period, so we support empowering the Government to prescribe temporary measures to prevent and eliminate disturbances in the transport of certain products, when these disorders cannot be removed by measures of current economic policy, with the confidence that the Government will only reach out to them when it is really necessary. The importance of the proposed solutions in order to make traffic records more complete should not be ignored, as this is a condition for effective monitoring of the enforcement of tax obligations. Finally, the proposed increase in fines, as well as the proposal for the first-degree infringement to be conducted by the Ministry of Trade, assuming that the ministry will provide human and other conditions, will significantly increase the effectiveness of the infringement procedure for which only fines were prescribed, as judges for offences over a large number of cases could not achieve the necessary efficiency. In terms of exposure, I advocate the adoption of the proposed law, whose consistent application we expect positive results to combat primarily the gray economy, the legality of goods transport, but also consumer protection, as well as significant fiscal effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1472	Thank you. Does Mr. Milan Mikovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1473	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the first objection, Mr. President, all we have on the agenda today is an emergency procedure. We would pray that we start from March of the month to work by not passing the laws by emergency procedure. It's in the interest of all of us to be better laws. We received a number of laws directly at the session of the Legislative Committee. Despite all the efforts, it's clear that no one can follow. That's one thing. The other thing, we would love to, but the government probably assessed that there would be no more laws in which there would be a provision, such as the provision in the proposed Article 4, where it was offered to introduce a new member, Article 8a. which reads: "If there are disturbances in the market in the production and transport of certain goods and if the disturbances cannot be removed by measures of the current economic policy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia may prescribe temporary measures to prevent and eliminate the disturbances while they last". It may be essential to defend itself sometimes, but I think that our current economic policies and strict compliance with the law, both of them and each other, must be sufficient to avoid disturbances in the production and transport of certain goods. Therefore, they must be organised so that all services do their jobs as they go and that we do not have to pursue such decisions, because I fear that what is handed over to the Government in jurisdiction, that it can prescribe temporary measures to prevent disturbances, is contrary to a series of provisions of the Constitution, which in all these areas speak of the possibility of such a thing in exceptional cases being done, but by law. Thus, not to acts brought by the Government, but to acts brought by the congregation. It is a matter of principle, and the adherence to the Constitution is a matter of capital importance for us right now. As far as foreign policy is concerned, as regards The Hague, one of the basic arguments of our country's position and our government is that we must strictly adhere to constitutional provisions, whether or not anyone can be sent abroad, delivered abroad by our citizens. Therefore, if we do not follow the Constitution, then we ourselves question such a position in front of the world and I think that in this respect we must be extremely serious. One more thing I would point to, it seems to be the sideline, the most parallel, but the first time it's been introduced into the law that the buyer is obliged to take account of the purchased goods during its purchase and if it doesn't do so, in which case the purchaser's inspector can punish on the spot with 100 new dinars. We understand the seller, it's a normal thing, but we're asking the buyer to do the inspections and all the other jobs. When you buy a kilo of bread for 2.50 dinars and don't take the ring of a block offered to you by the seller, you go outside, and that's when the inspector will charge you a fine of 40 kilos of bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1474	Thank you. He has the word Minister Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1475	Ladies and gentlemen, these matters are discussed on the Legislative Committee and on the Committee on Trade and Tourism. What's this about? There are situations and cases where the market cannot react to all economic measures. There are situations where the market doesn't work, there are situations, as we had a few months ago, when we have production, we have traffic and we don't have goods on the market. With some of the measures we've done, we've secured the relative stability of our market. This provision of Article 8a, which practically regulates or upgrades what is regulated by Article 8, basic agricultural and food products and market stability when it comes to this type of goods, we just want to ensure that the government is able to be able to guarantee the stability and security of our market. It will sometimes be through the Stock Reserve Directorate, sometimes it will be necessary to make it appear in such a way that it will have an insight into the overall turnover from production through wholesale and retail sales, along with information and other appropriate ways. This provision has no purpose, I do not know what time I repeat to Mr Mikovic, is not intended to distort the equality of operators involved in transport, it is not intended to disrupt and create unequal operating conditions for economic operators. After all, we proved that for several months, when there were mild market disturbances, no one was weighed, no one was even forced, we simply gave the market a chance, but with some control we only enabled greater traffic regulation. In that context, the provision of Article 8a should be interpreted. As for this standard, it is incorrect to mention bread and a fine of 100 dinars. One more word that exists in that article should not be forgotten, and it says "can", the inspector can impose a fine of 100 dinars on the scene. Of course, it's not about the situation of buying bread, but about those situations where the buyer is involved with some sellers in illegal traffic, so let's say he buys a significant amount of goods, doesn't take a bill from the seller, pays a visa card that comes in as a payment in five or six months, and he takes the same goods to a market of 100, 200 or 300 kilometers away and puts it in illegal traffic. In this respect, market inspectors are authorised and trained to make that difference. That is why this discretion -- it can depend on how it is assessed in a specific case. Of course, for a kilo of bread, for milk, that provision will not be applied, but I must remind all those who are calling for some tradition of Western democracy and Western economies, please, in Greece the seller is chasing the buyer to give him an account of the purchased goods. Why do we need that bill? How market inspection works by advertising unless there's an account. It is possible, then, that the buyer is cheating on the market inspection because he can't stand or hate a seller. In this way, the relationship is defined precisely, who is the seller, who is the buyer, and it is about the sale, about a two-sided freight contract that withdraws rights and obligations, both on the seller's side and on the customer's side. With these standards and these provisions, which Mr. Mikovic spoke of, we will in practice have no problems. It's just that we're prepared and there's a difference in application, so it doesn't go wrong. We don't want to violate anyone's fundamental rights, we want to simply protect our buyer. How do we protect him? Well, he paid taxes on the goods, but the goods weren't registered in a prescribed way and the tax ended up in someone's pocket, not where they belong, in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we were forced to make these changes, to have concrete regulatory traffic and to control each other, because traffic is not only one side, but all those who participate in it. As for Article 8a. and apparently temporary measures, we have no idea that we are introducing temporary measures into production. But in production, there's one part about traffic, security of raw materials, selling semi and finished products in large sales. That part needs to be controlled, so the goods don't get lost in other ways and go through other channels.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1476	There is a word from the People's Messenger Ljubisa Selic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1477	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, the explanation given by Minister Krasic for me is quite correct. All I have is an objection to a fine that needs to be paid by a buyer. Mr. Krasic mentioned Greece. More or less we were all in Greece, it's true that there's a salesman chasing a buyer to give him a bill, but it's not true that in the Greek legislation a buyer can be punished for not having that bill. So I think this part of the law should be deleted and the rest kept because it's correct, correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1478	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1479	I come from the Vojvodina Coalition...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1480	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the Duke, we have one more in front of us in a series of bad legal proposals... I may have called you badly... You may be the archduke (to Vice President Seselj). I'm a peasant man, and I don't understand that nobility of yours... (Vice President Seselj, from the scene - you're new here, you have time, you'll learn).... I'll learn. In front of us, we have another one in a series of bad proposals from this government... The Vojvodina Coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1482	Please allow the MP to speak. Please, Mr. Minister, be kind... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1483	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1485	And this proposal of the government is filled with criminal provisions, as well as so far proposed laws submitted by the government to this National Assembly. According to this proposal, we've already heard, a citizen who doesn't take the bill can be, and he doesn't have to, fined 100 dinars unless he takes the bill. That depends on which ID you take out of your pocket. From this data, we from the Vojvodina Coalition can conclude that this government is acting as a criminal expedition towards its citizens, citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina. Which he can't tax - punishment, which he can't punish - she takes away. This bill of law, in certain provisions, gives the Government the right.... You're the one who took us out. We peasants don't have money? [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1486	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1487	This bill gives the Government the right to remove disturbances in the production and transport of goods on the market by non-economic measures, so not only by releasing goods from stock reserves, importing similar goods and placing them on the market, but by having the right to introduce provisional measures in production, into the market of products that it considers to be market disturbances. These are dictatorial measures, and they are a feature of the conductive economy. The government can use this to favor certain legal persons, to create...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1488	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1489	The government can favour certain legal and natural persons at the expense of others, create monopolies, damage to certain industries and regions. It is not difficult to guess which goods would be targeted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. These would most likely be agricultural and food products. So, agriculture would suffer, and from the region, who knows which way, the largest would pay the Vojvodina. And this government, as well as the previous one, considers Vojvodina to be a caveman from whom can be taken whenever anyone wants, as much as they want, etc. What we don't give to the soap, we give to the force, which we don't give to the cheap, they'll take the free. We of the Vojvodina Coalition would like to see if there is a disturbance in the supply of milk, how the Ministers will force our cows to give milk. Will it be a temporary or permanent husband, as is the case with agriculture and Vojvodina...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1490	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1491	Knowing that this repressive bill of the government of the Republic of Serbia will also be passed remains regrettable that the government of the People's Unity has increasingly grown into a government of universal destruction. May God help the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1492	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. 165, against 19, abstentions 17, was not voted by one MP, a total of 202 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Committee on Trade and Tourism and a representative of the proposings at the session of the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Committee on Trade and Tourism and a representative of the proposings at the session of the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Committee on Trade and Tourism and a representative of the proposings at the session of the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. As this amendment was adopted by the Trade and Tourism Committee and by a representative of the proposings at the session of the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 19. (Article 57a) The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Having adopted this amendment by the Committee on Trade and Tourism and a representative of the proposings at the session of the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 19. (Article 57b) The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. As this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism and by a representative of the Proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Trade and Tourism submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. As this amendment was adopted by the Legislative Committee and by a representative of the Proposer at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conditions of Transport of Goods, the operation of services in the transport of goods and inspection in general. The vote was 163, 26 against, with 8 abstentions, not one vote, a total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conditions of Transport of Goods, the violation of services in the transport of goods and inspection. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCOMMODATION LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the amendment of MP of the Life of Cvetkovic. You received notice from Serbian MP Petrovic to give up his amendment, which he submitted to Article 2. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction gave up its proposal, given at the previous session, on 23 December 1998, to implement legal - technical regulation in Article 2. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He has the word of the People's Messenger Jemail Suljević.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1493	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we passed another law a while ago to help the suffering people in the earthquake, that is to say, to resuscitate the earthquake in the Colubary County. So we've provided help, we've defined ourselves to help people who are distressed, but we haven't accepted to help all the citizens of this country. Here, and this law also discriminates against a part of the citizens. These citizens are just the Bosniaks, who were kidnapped, kidnapped in 1992 and 1993, and not the haystacks of any terrorists, these are workers, family people, who were abducted from the bus in the north and from the train on the Belgrade-Bar track. So it's not about any terrorists or fundamentalists, and we can't vote for this law, of course, us Sandzak MPs. I also asked on the Committee on Urbanism that families, whose parents and feeders have been kidnapped, and families whose houses have been burned, destroyed and robbed, should be included in this law, where, of course, they would have status and right analoguely those who suggest they have the right to 5%, what will be set aside for the security of the housing issue to wartime people, although the second question is, who are these wartime military people, when this country was not at war with anyone. I therefore continue to insist that, if possible, both families of the kidnapped and family members whose houses were burned and robbed in the municipalities of Priboj and Prepolje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1494	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zoran Jovanovic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr Zivadin Jotic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1495	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in the mood to work, see, bright faces, mood. I must say immediately that the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group fully accepts the proposal for a law supplementing the House Law. The Serbian Renewal Movement Group believes that measures had to be taken so far to address the large existential issues of persons who are at war, in which indeed Serbia was not, as we have said recently, but perhaps it was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and now, of course, Serbia is at war. Of course, now we all know that Serbia is at war, because the territory of the Republic of Serbia is taking place, or at least until recently, actions that can be considered wartime acts of the Yugoslav Army as a legitimate organ have taken place. However, I came out just to clarify some of the misunderstandings that could occur when these laws were applied. It is, therefore, clear intensities of the government that a certain part of the funds, collected in municipal solidarity funds, are being channeled to address the housing needs of wartime wartime peoples and family members with whom the deceased party of the armed actions lived after 17 August 1990. As far as wartime disabled people are concerned, that category will be relatively easy to determine. However, I understand the complex situation the government was in, when it proposed a formulation -- a dead participant of armed actions after 17 August 1990, when it comes to the exercise of rights based on the solidarity of housing construction of members of the families of those persons. So it had to go through one of these broad formulations -- the deceased involved in armed action after 17 August 1990. The question is, what are the actions in which someone died? We've had actions of criminals, armed actions of criminals, in which some criminal has suffered, would that mean that members of the family of these criminals can appeal to the rights of this law? Or the Cypriot terrorists, who are taking measures to secede from the Republic of Serbia, of course by armed actions, after 17th of August 1990, are these days killed, will they be able to appeal to this law tomorrow? In municipalities, because of the lack of legal solutions and the existence of certain legal gaps, i.e. inadequate legal regulations, so far there has been no possibility of resolving the housing issue of these people. Some municipalities, from one way to another, were able to cope. In Cacak, we had a problem with the killed militiamen in Kosovo, so we sought the opportunity to allocate two salaries, so that people, or members of their family, could solve the housing issue. However, the Law specifically provides for building land in which cases can be allocated from a free hand to city building land, and these are cases where it is done for the needs of state authorities when it comes to charges for exploited immovableities and when it comes to stimulating the return of persons evicted from Kosovo. In other cases, there must be a public competition, so no pay can be given to anyone without breaking the law. In some cities, however, humanity was at work, so we couldn't wait to change the law and make such decisions. It is an amendment to the Housing Act, but the funds for the Solidarity Fund are set aside by employees. Citizens should understand that it is not about apartments of solidarity as a socio-economic category of employees. It is about providing funds for businesses and institutions, which do not have enough resources to address the housing needs of their employees. So solidarity is at the level of distribution of housing to the municipality between companies, and there is no more solidarity in the company. The apartment of solidarity can also be obtained by the director and the deputy director and any other person who, in accordance with the company's act, does not have a settled housing issue. We'd like this country to be richer so that the funds don't get mixed up, that the wartime military people and family members of the people who have suffered have their own special fund and that they solve, as well as their descendants, in an appropriate way their own housing issue. Not just a housing issue, but a matter of material existence and all other issues at all. Given the economic conditions in which we live, this is a small effort to help these people who have laid down on the altar of the homeland what is brightest and most valuable, and that is life.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1496	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would most like the previous speech of the Serbian Movement MPs to be a matter of ignorance and misunderstanding, rather than a matter of serious intentions. Serbia was not at war, but the previous Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had an internal separatist rebellion. In the event of an internal separatist rebellion, every country in the world employs its own army, and our previous state has engaged the army: the operational composition of the army, the partial mobilization of the reserve and the collection of volunteers. Most volunteers were directly involved in army units. There were also those who formed the so-called. Serbian guards, so they quickly forgot them, when a number of people were wounded, died, etc. This law regulates serious issues. So we had dead fighters. These are the dead fighters in suppressing internal rebellion. That because of the pressure of the great forces, because of the sanctions, the blockade, the threats to our country, we have failed to preserve some territories, that's another question. But the fight had to be fought. The victims of this struggle, the families of the dead and the wounded, have the right to state aid and support. There is no war in Serbia today. Our enemies are trying to show that there's a war in there. The NATO Pact is trying to show this, to have a legal basis for mixing the United Nations and other international organisations. There's no war. There are terrorist facts. They were very numerous terrorist facts, massa, a few months ago. Now they're controversial, in their nature, but still dangerous, because they're affecting human lives, because in these terrorist acts innocent civilians are killed. Police officers who participate in the repression of these terrorist acts and soldiers defending the border, who are either killed or wounded, are entitled to adequate state protection for themselves, if they are disabled, and for their family if the family is left without their feeder. The rights of victims of such acts are equated with the rights of wartime military invaluables and the families of fallen fighters. That's the essence of this law. On the other hand, inaccuracy about crying, inaccuracy and ignorance. The municipality can award a salary to every family of fallen fighters and every wounded and disabled, whether it's a war wounded, an internal war waged by the former JNA, whether it's a wounded or a family of fallen fighters from anti-terrorism acts still being fought. It is true that the municipality is obliged to call a public competition. But why don't the municipality call a public competition? The Zemun municipality thus launched a public competition last year and awarded more than 200 free salaries to wartime wartime people with disabilities, families of fallen fighters and war orphans. In the competition, it is indicated - free of charge. The competition is reported by all interested, and then either the real selection, if there are no excessive numbers and if everyone meets the conditions, it can be said - it is assigned to everyone. The municipality has the right to grant payments with compensation and no compensation. The method of granting payments under the law is a public competition. There's a public competition and it's allotted. So in both cases, the state is obliged to help and the state has mechanisms to help. One of these mechanisms is what we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1498	National MP Zoran Jovanovic. Since it's a replica, you're entitled to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1499	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Professor, I thank you, but I do not claim to know better than Mr. Professor. But, Professor, I have to tell you, you're wrong. The construction land law does not allow the municipality to free the investor from the obligation to pay compensation for the construction of city land. This law only empowers the municipality to establish criteria and criteria. Although, fellow professor, you and I both ended up under the titosm Law School, so it looks like we're acting on that max "we don't have to stick to the law like a drunk float." Someone more, someone less. Secondly, as to whether Serbia was at war or not, I only pointed out one of my dilemmas: If Serbia was not at war, where could the Serbian citizen be a wartime military invalid? He may have participated in Somalia as a participant in some armed conflicts in the Foreign Legion. Most importantly, if Serbia wasn't at war now, where do we get children from in Chačka, young men of 18 years in tin crates, who went to military service in the Yugoslav Army six months ago? Where do the M.O.P. members come from in tin crates? So it's not a war. But is war, gentlemen, when the territory of a neighbouring country is being attacked at the border of the SRJ?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1500	Mr. Jovanovic, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1501	..... By armed faces? If it's not war for you...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1502	Mr. Jovanovic, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1503	... It's war for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1504	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1505	It is truly amazing that the SPO gentleman wants to prove at all costs that Serbia is at war. In every country in the world, the army protects the borders. If someone else's regular military formation attacks our borders, it could be considered whether it's war or not. Since it is not about regular military formations of Albania as a state or regular NATO military formations that are also threatening, but about irregular terrorist gangs, war cannot be talked about legally. It's about the legal assessment. And basically to us as a state, it doesn't suit the formulation of war, because it has other consequences that can't be accepted in this case. Third, our country sent troops to Sinai within the United Nations forces, our country sent troops to separate Iranian and Iraqi troops after the war was over. It could have happened there, thank God it didn't, to get some soldier or officer killed. The state wasn't at war, but in war-armed acts, someone could die. In every country in the world, a police officer may die in an anti-terrorist action, in the fight against crime, especially organised crime, which is a challenge for every country. The state must protect the families of such dead police officers or those who remain disabled, must help them. This is pure legal logic, after all. I can't figure out that someone's been calling for a law degree at any time, and in a titoistic time because of this kind of ignorance, it's been dropped on exams. Don't blame time for what you didn't learn and master yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1506	Thank you. There's a word from MP Alexander Milutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1507	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, such as MP SPO, Mr. Zoran Jovanovic, said earlier, the SPO Parliament Club supports this law supplementing the House Act. I would particularly take advantage of the opportunity to commend the legislator, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is one positive experience of the Belgrade City Assembly Executive Board, according to the City Decisions on the allocation of these 5% funds for the purposes of the Solidarity Fund, to turn de facto into this new law. I want MPs who do not live in Belgrade to know that 94 of these housing problems have been resolved in the last two years and that another 30 will be resolved in 1999. As the fact of this decision feels clear in action and that some of the important problems of certain families in this way are solved, we support this project and we propose that the Fund for the financing of the building of apartments should remain in office, as is the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1508	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the Pre-Law vote on principle. For 193, against three abstentions, no one voted four, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP of the People's Republic of Life Cvetkovic. I ask the Government's representative and the rapporteurs of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee to declare themselves on this amendment. They accept the amendment. ) Here it is accepted and the correction is called the Union of Unions, as it was written here, and should be - the Union of Serbian Unions. Just so you know, wherever it is in the amendment -- the Union of Unions, it should stand -- the Union of Serbian Unions. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the housing law in general. For 189, against three, abstentions, four were not voted, a total of 198 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill supplementing the House Law. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Editing of Space and Inheritances You have adopted a bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the amendment of the Legislative Committee and the amendment of MP Zoran Jovanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set out by MP Milan Mikovic. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does the MP, who singled out his opinion, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join this protest, which, I suppose, was directed by Mr. Mikovic to call on today's Assembly, because we ourselves in the "Vojvodina" Coalition believe and we are deeply convinced that calling on parliament, where the laws of urgency are constantly passed, essentially transforming this assembly into a political court, where, without sufficient arguments, at great speed, with insufficient knowledge and estimated political and other effects, all of our citizens are in a very unfavourable situation. We are going to prove it today, that's exactly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going to prove today, because only three weeks from the moment it proposed, to say in popular words, the law on privileges, has already submitted today a proposal to withdraw this law. If in peace of mind, if arguments were to be faced in peace and the results of what certain laws would lead to, there would be no need to insist on the urgent procedures under which this congregation passed the laws. We would much prefer that, instead, this assembly today made a decision to leave urgently as the Assembly of Kosovo and to open the Assembly in Pristina and move especially the Ministry of Police and the Minister himself with his family, to encourage our entire people, to want to share fate with him, to let our people see that he was not left behind....
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1510	I ask MP Dragan Veselinov to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1511	It would have been far better if we had done so, than we continue to pass laws by an urgent procedure, and by an urgent procedure, we do not do much more to defend our people. The Vojvodina coalition will not vote for this bill, which amends the previous Law on Planning of Space in Serbia, because we cannot generally agree for political reasons that the overall spatial development plan for Serbia is being adopted in the National Assembly and that the regional development plan is being adopted at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the regional development of the Vojvodina is necessary to put under the authority of the Vojvodina Assembly, and to give certain aspects to the Government of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Of course, the strategic directions of Serbia's spatial development must be under the rule of the National Assembly and its government. These are strategic routes for railways, roads and other elements. However, the regional importance of roads, railways, etc. in Vojvodina, they must be placed under the authority of the Assembly of Vojvodina and the duchy government. We can't let the Duke's infrastructure network break down and rot. Vojvodina has the richest railway network in Serbia, a road network, and the network is no longer in the power of the Vojvodina Assembly. We can't let it go to waste, that we can't in any way influence the decisions that are being made. In this assembly, even assuming that all the Dukes unite, 55-56 MPs, we would not, provided that everyone else doesn't think like us, be able to act on those solutions that are of interest to Vojvodina. It may be that someone thinks that for us it is beneficial that all decisions are made in this assembly regarding the Vojvodina, but if someone in Serbia likes that some railway tracks in Serbia continue to have a locomotive inherited from the age of Aleksandr Obrenović and Draga Masin, it is in use. We're not for such locomotives to go to Vojvodina, we want modern locomotives. We want to make our own decision to finally infrastructureally connect Banat with Srem, for decades this assembly has not allowed Banat and Srem to connect with one bridge. When the Banacanin goes to Srem, he must first come to Belgrade from Banat, so from Belgrade to move to Srem, so Serbia must enter, and cannot directly and vice versa, Sremac to Banat, must first come to Belgrade to move from Belgrade to Banat. If it were up to us Vojvodina, we would have made a decision long ago to build at least one bridge on the Danube between Banat and Srem and that these regions that make up the Vojvodina... (from Vojislav Seselj's hall is heard...) Yes, but Batajnica is no longer with you in Vojvodina, you've heard quite well. I'll tell you later, take it easy. [[Tomislav Nikolic throws out of place, but you can't hear it.]] So, we in Vojvodina because we don't have the strength, we're legally deposed, we're not even able to integrate our regions infrastructureally. This law, which strictly centralises the entire government in spatial planning in Serbia, is only paired with all those laws that are being passed in this assembly, and which concerns money and matter from Vojvodina. The example works, sometimes 20 to 30 years ago, only the town of Panchevo took part in sales tax with 48%, and now that the centralized government in Serbia, Panchevo has 7 or 8% of its participation in sales tax and this is the situation in the whole of Vojvodina. This is what we are protesting, which is why we believe it is necessary to carry out regionalisation and this political, administrative regionalisation throughout Serbia, because it is not only in the interest of Vojvodina that it decides on its territory on basic infrastructure capacities and development routes. This, we assume, is both of interest to the Shumadi and to many other regions in Serbia, who feel the need to master their own economic potential and their own spatial plan. Hence, these are the reasons that guide us not to vote in favour of this law, although we do not reject the idea at all, and we think it is necessary that strategically affect the spatial nature of Serbia, must be under the authority of the National Assembly, but that Vojvodina in its territory, what is not within the circle of strategic interests, must rule itself.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1512	I thank you, there is a word from the People's Messenger Zivadin Jotic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1513	Mr. President, fellow MPs, as far as I know, the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia always brings and solves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We now have a newspaper that the regional spatial plan of the area with special purposes and a spatial plan of a network of infrastructure or a network of areas, or a facility with special functions, is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, these are two new positions of Article 35. The law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. In the light of this law and the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, it is proposed that in early 1999, and also in 1999, spatial plans are made, among other things: The spatial plan of the network of facilities and complexes with special functions, TEO Kolubara B, the spatial plan of the area of exploitation of the Kosovo-Methochial-Lignite base, the spatial plan of the area of exploitation of the Kolubar-Liginian base. I would like to refer a question to this congregation home, why, besides these two League Basers, is not included in the third Lignite Basen-Drno, which is of the scope and importance immediately behind these two, and they have entered the spatial plan. Since space linen is determined in the long term, I ask that Lignite Based Wood be placed in a spatial plan to be given a long-term destiny in this important assembly place. Kop Wood is named after the village of Woodno, which has over 2,000 inhabitants, and which threatens this village on three sides, and practically the village is being dragged into... in the peninsula, for the reason that the largest coal deposits are just lying beneath the village of Drno and that the fate of this village is sealed by the expansion of the base. I believe that Lignite Based Wood should be included in the spatial plan of the Republic, or Assembly. If you think he has regional significance, then put him in a regional spatial plan, so let the government and the Ministry of Mining and Energy take care of him. I believe that by including space in the plan of the Republic and the inhabitants of the village of Drna, as well as neighbouring villages, or villages, they will know what will happen to them and their settlement in the near future.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1514	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm finishing the initial search. Please report in on time, because when I close the search, I usually don't give a word to you later, but I'll make an exception to you. The word has a folk MP, Fevzi Muric.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1515	(As the messenger approaches the pay phone, there are rumors from the town of Vojislav Seselj...) ..... And you can't be aggressive and you have to respect other people, but first we need to know who you are, whether you're a Serb or something else, and now you're Bosniak. (You can still hear the throws of Vojislav Seselj. ..... The Bosniaks also watch on Kosovo TV, and now you have a chance of being Bosniak, if you don't like the Serb anymore. However, the Bosniak must be tolerant and respect others. That's something else. We'll talk about it some other time. To have kidnapped people from the trains here...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1516	Please, don't have a dialogue, I'm asking the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1517	Mr. President, I would like to ask you that when I answer for the word that the MPs are truly tolerable, not only for us from Sandzak, but for any MP, and I count that MPs should not come drunk in this room, that's one thing. Second of all, I'm counting on them to be able to do business. I'm not going to go into any questions related to spatial and urban planning. There's a lot of illogicality here, especially when it comes to regional spatial plans. This is a new problem with us, in Europe of course not, but I would rather stick to one specific case that I brought to the Committee on Urbanism last night, which interferes dramatically with the work of competent authorities in all municipalities and, of course, institutions dealing with spatial and urban planning. This problem is contained in Article 24. It is a very important issue, and if this problem is not removed, it is not possible to carry out rational parceling or to do an urban project or a regulatory urban project. Article 24 says: "The plot of land designated for construction provides for the use of building land and implementation of a solution to the general and regulatory plan, urban project and urban permits, without changing existing cadastrian parcels." I don't know if there are any people here who deal with this problem. There is a fundamental and significant difference between the cadastar plot and the urban plot, i.e. building plots. These two things cannot be reconciled in any way, because the catastrian plots often have irregular shape, amorphan shape, multifaceted shape, with multiple angles and more sides and it is not possible to build a building plot by respecting a strictly catastrian plot. I'm saying this for the public and for the people who are dealing with this problem, they're probably amongst the MPs, that this is an absurdity that cannot be respected, and I would ask that it be removed as soon as possible. Of course, there's more about passing professional exams, that's not controversial. For spatial planners, authorized urbanists, there is a demand I don't know how many years of internships, work results, projects etc., instead of asking whether someone, if they have done a project, whether it's good or not, and not whether they've ever done anything and whether they have passed a professional exam, whether they have so much or so much work experience. If there are already committees, and there are, it is essential that a young man who has just graduated from college or worked for a year or two days is given a chance to work in the profession. These laws, not only this one, but also the Law on the Construction of Objects, the Law on Spatial Planning and Other Laws, young people, talented people, especially when it comes to architecture and urbanism, do not give them the opportunity to express themselves and practically do not have the opportunity to work because of some illogical or monopolies relations with which a conscious and deliberate legislator, when he brings it, because of some structures, I do not know why, takes away the right of a young man who has graduated from college to be involved and to work in the profession. I think these things should be removed. It is not disputed to pass an expert exam, but it is also necessary to give young people, especially talented, the opportunity to show themselves in their profession.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1518	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages in principle. In favour of 159 against four, with abstentions of 16, nine were not voted, 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. As this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Construction and Urbanism and by a representative of the legislator at the session of the Legislative Committee, this amendment became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the proposed solution is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1519	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submitted the amendment to the next logic of the government when it proposed a bill on amendments to the Law on Planning and Arrangements of Space and Villages. Mr. President, I think it's Article 101. Rules of Procedure, Section 3. What does it say? Do you have a Rules of Procedure? Does it say only for MPs or ministers not to be allowed to earn?
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1520	Mr. Jovanovic, be kind, it's my right and I'll regulate it, and you keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1521	If the Government has proposed, for reasons of rationality, that only a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia be adopted by the Republic of Serbia, and that other spatial plans be adopted by the Government, such as a regional spatial plan or a spatial plan of a specific purpose or a spatial plan of a network of infrastructure, the first question, in principle, should be taken away and transferred to the Government? In particular, it is justified to criticise colleagues Veselinov, the name of the regional spatial plan itself, implies that it is not brought by the central parliament, but by the regional parliament. I'll return to my amendment. Indeed, in the light of the law, if we accept this, people are looking for the current legal solution when it comes to the adoption of any spatial plan, whether urban plans, whether urban projects or parcel plans are unique. Three times the material has to go to the Assembly. According to the applicable law of urban plans, these are the general plans of the city and settlements and the plans of the plot and the urban project is brought by the assembly of the municipality, i.e. the city. If the Government says that the dispute and lengthy procedure for the adoption of a regional spatial plan is the reason why it should not be brought by the Assembly, but by the Government, because the government is more often an ambush than the Assembly, I wanted to make it possible by proposing an amendment to the municipalities that, when it comes to the plots and urban projects, as urban planning acts of less importance than urban plans, for example, the General Plan or the Regulatory Plan, that the same legal procedure should be maintained in that case, and that the executive bodies of the Assembly, executive committees, executive councils or executive councils, as they are already called, can do so. I'm surprised that some of the reasons apply in one situation and in another, which is in principle not valid. I can guess why the government and the parent board didn't accept this amendment, probably considering that this is how the municipalities would be destimulated, i.e. municipalities' congregations that their urban plans, in particular the settlement regulation plans for which general plans are not adopted, do not make such plans. You know what this is about? In practice, we have a big problem. If a man wants to be in one area where he doesn't have a regulation plan to build a facility, for example, By the Ibar highway, a gas station, in a village, must have an urban project under the current law. If it gets caught by the season when the SO doesn't ambush, from June to September, the whole procedure, the proposal can be submitted to the ministry, the public insight procedure and the expert debate to last several months. In the meantime, the investor won't wait. Then we wonder why it isn't built, why someone isn't investing in capital. The same can apply to the plotting plan. If a small correction is to be made from a valid planer's regulation, why should such a procedure be sought by the same procedure as applicable for the adoption of the general plan of a city, e.g. Belgrade. I would ask the MPs, regardless of the report of the parent board and the government, to understand the essence of this amendment and how much the process of building certain construction facilities is hampered in the municipalities, because of these legal solutions. Now I would like to address the citizens of my constituency, Chačka, who are permanently disinforming, that the MPs from Cačka do nothing, that the Government and the National Assembly are taking steps to adopt a spatial plan of the area of special purpose of the Zvrčevo dam. Last time there was a discussion on spending from the agrarian budget, I especially commended the government, that in a position - multi-purpose water use, at least in a rationale, it states that in 1999 the construction of the Dam is planned from vital importance for the supply of Rzav, five municipalities, Gornji Milanovac, Čačak, Lucani, Arile and Požega. Even though I've been publically discussing this speaker, the citizens of Cacak are in local means of informing them of the false information that we're not doing anything about it. I am now pleased that, in the light of this law, as one of the reasons for the proposed legislative amendments, it is stated that the adoption of a spatial plan of the water source area of the Rzav regional subsystem will be accelerated. At the session of the Legislative Committee on 24 December, I asked the Assistant Minister of Construction, Director of the Institute for Physical Planning and Urbanism, Dr Manojl Miladinović whether this means that a spatial source plan will be put in place next year. The defenses of the Magpie, and he confirmed that they would be brought. I am informing the citizens of these five municipalities that, thanks to the activities of their MPs, the government has taken this big problem into account. Please vote for this amendment, not for me, but for our municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1522	Thank you. There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1523	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there's one thing I'd like to discuss with you. Efforts have been made by MP Zoran Jovanovic, and I think it would be logical to adopt such a proposal. Believe me, on the Legislative Committee, not only did we say that this was legally possible, but we concluded that it would indeed be such a solution, that it would not be all in the jurisdiction of the Assembly, so if such a decision is made on bigger issues, why could it not be so when it comes to the jurisdiction of the municipality. But you'll judge for yourself. It would be much easier for you to assess Mr Jovanovic's amendment if we had an explanation in the report of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, at least in sentence two, which is why the amendment should not be accepted. At the session of the Legislative Committee, he was a representative of the motion, and there was no question at that time whether this proposal should be accepted or not, or whether there was no opposition to this amendment. It was not said that the promoter did not agree with the amendment. For these reasons, I would ask Mr. Minister, he was appointed representative of the government, Mr. Kovacevic and Mr. Dragomir Radovanovic, as chairman of the parent board, to explain why such an amendment would not be useful and could not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1524	Thank you. He has the word of Minister Dejan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1525	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, it is true that this issue has been raised on the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, however, the Government through the Ministry is following the law, how this law is being implemented in the Republic, and when we come into a situation to see that we need to launch this issue and we will launch it. The problem that stands out here is to move from municipalities to executive councils too soon, as we have not come to the conclusion that in many parts of Serbia the problem has grown in that size.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1526	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. 40, against 134 abstentions, were not voted by four MPs, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about the Predity of the Law in particular? Nobody. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages in general. A total of 181 ambassadors were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the amendment of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, which has adopted the draft law in principle and in particular and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law with the amendment of the Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the words of Minister of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs Tomislav Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1527	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I find it important that, with the proposed amendments to the Law and the arguments delivered and the discussions made on committees, some important remarks regarding this law be brought before the Assembly before its adoption. In line with the economic policy, the government of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, which adopted objectives and measures to achieve dynamic economic development, is particularly emphasising the importance of reforming the economic system. In line with these objectives, tax regulations have already been adopted, which ensure that reform definitions are achieved in the public spending sector. With this in mind, changes to the existing pension- invalidity insurance laws are necessary, starting the reform process and halting the further increase of deficits in the Pension-Difference Insurance Fund. Proposed amendments to the law, this goal is achieved. In recent years, the Fund has faced an insufficient inflow of funds, which does not allow for the regular payment of pensions and other rights from this insurance, as well as their regular legal harmonisation. According to the payment of the contribution, about 60% of the necessary funds are provided, and on the basis of additional income, which is provided from the price of gasoline, tobacco taxis, oil and cash transactions carried out through the Payment Office, an additional 20% of the necessary funds are provided. So the monthly deficit in this Fund is between 250 million and 300 million dinars. As a result of this situation, the basic intensity of proposing this law is to ensure a higher income based on a profit contribution, not increasing the base for those taxpayers who have regularly settled their obligations, at the level of real earnings paid, but involving those taxpayers, who have only settled their liabilities on the basis of contributions on the basis of guaranteed earnings, and not on the total earnings paid, which in most cases has been paid past payment. Therefore, the financial discipline of all payers is increasing. The amendments to the laws that are before you are going to meet the announced and necessary reforms of pension- invalidity insurance in general, in terms of greater security in the exercise of rights, increasing the independence and financial efficiency of the pension fund and increasing financial discipline. The key of the proposed changes is to establish the lowest bases depending on the degree of professional training, complexity and responsibilities of the group of jobs, in accordance with collective agreements, where employers are obliged to pay contributions to compulsory social insurance, pension, disability and health insurance, as well as to provide insurance for temporary unemployment. I must immediately say that when proposing this solution, there has been co-operation with trade unions, resolution ministries, the Trust Fund for Disability and Pension Insurance, which they have assessed as a positive insistence of the Government to overcome the problem of paying contributions to pension- invalidity insurance, i.e. for a large number of employees only on guaranteed earnings, which is particularly characteristic of the private sector. Namely, a number of employers pay employees reduced earnings or guaranteed earnings, and a part of the profits most often significantly higher than the amount of guaranteed earnings, pays to the employee on the hands, past the payment turnover, in order to avoid the obligation to pay contributions and taxes. Or to make the same payment on a lower base. This puts employees in an unfavourable position, as they are determined by minimum pensions, according to the contribution paid. In order to protect the interests of employees, it is proposed that the minimum basis for payment of the contribution be the labour prices established by the border collective agreements, which are in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, employers are obliged to pay, with the lowest basis to which the contribution is paid, on a proposal from the trade union, set at 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. When proposing the lowest base of 40% of the average income in the Republic, it came from the Law of the found minimum pension institute, which is 40% of the monthly earnings per employee in the Republic. Over the past few years, due to the introduction of economic sanctions, a large number of employers have been forced to direct paid leave employees, and due to the inability to launch production adequately, to all employees, both those who worked and those who were on paid leave, guaranteed earnings were paid, to whom a contribution for compulsory social security was paid. Continued application of guaranteed earnings, as the lowest basis for payment of contributions to pension- invalidity insurance, would produce a further increase in deficits in compulsory social security funds, endanger the social security of employees based on the achievement of healthcare and later pension- invalidity insurance rights. At the same time, the rate of illegal profit payments would increase and further development of the grey market in the field of labour. Bilaterally, a growing phenomenon has been eliminated that, compared to the average salary paid in the Republic, contributions to social security are paid at only 20% of the average earnings in the Republic, while pensioning is granted a minimum pension of 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. Such a defined account deficit is simply not acceptable, first from the point of view of social justice, then the real situation in profit policy, as well as the real economic possibilities of taxpayers, and these amendments to the Law eliminate the phenomenon. The proposed amendments to the Law clearly established a demarcated relationship between taxes and contributions, which is another very important quality. This means that, as a basis for the calculation and payment of contributions, account will be taken of net earnings paid, increased on the basis of contributions to compulsory social security. Such a defined category of profits will not depend on tax policy, which is applied to profits. Any change in the tax system will not result in automaticism and change in contribution rates. This means, at the same time, that policies in these areas will be managed separately, in the context of the overall balanced public consumption and the balance sheeting of revenues and expenditures in different forms of public consumption, those achieved on the basis of taxes. In addition, when proposing the lowest basis for payment of contributions, it was noted that in a number of enterprises, average earnings per employee are at a lower level than the minimum basis and that they will not be able to pay contributions on the proposed basis. For these companies, as a temporary solution, it is proposed that the government determines, or that it can establish, lower bases, but not lower than 50% of the lowest net base. That regulation in the law exists. Finally, it is proposed that both removal and more precise definition of the perceived ambiguities, as well as the adjustment of those issues, which in practice proved necessary to be governed by the law. The Assembly Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the Law in general, with amendments the government has adopted, as well as the Legislative Committee. At yesterday's sessions, we very detailed and precisely clarified, even drawing, a balance of what automation applies in practice, both by the debtor and by the state authorities. With this in mind, I suggest that they amend and supplement the law in this area, with amendments from yesterday's committees, the Assembly adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1528	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? He has the word Zoran Kostadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1529	What I want, ladies and gentlemen, to say about this law, is the following -- I don't like the formulation that he's actually explained, why he needs to be introduced. All private individuals currently paying these minimum personal incomes to their workers are placed in a position as if they have committed some kind of crime. They did not commit a crime, the environment, the government's attitude towards them forced them to pay these minimum personal incomes in order to maintain a number of employees. So, by raising these obligations, two very negative things will happen: either there will be an alienation of a certain number of workers or something worse will happen, meaning as much as the employer loses, what the government takes from him, so much will have to reduce his personal incomes. So, it's going to be up to personal employee incomes. That's not gonna be good on any other basis. However, I am fully aware of this, and all of us from the SPO, that this is not worth talking to you about now, but should wait for a certain period of time for practice to completely compromise such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1530	There's a word from MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1531	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we were very late to receive this material and may not have been thoroughly processed, because the MPs met with it today, and who was in the Assembly yesterday had the good fortune to see these three laws connected, when it comes to profits, but it certainly had to be seen that the intention of these three laws (about pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployed persons) was to fill the deficit funds, as the minister himself said in his presentation. When the funds are filled, then the rates increase, as is done this time, and the foundations that need to be applied to. None of us can be so rude and insensitive as to say that the pension and disability insurance fund or health care fund should be kept empty and there should be no funds in it, because that is why people cannot be treated and can't receive pensions. But no one in this assembly in a year's time, as far as I'm an MP, has asked the key question -- how these funds were emptied, who emptied them and where the money that's always been poured into these funds, because the employees' earnings have always carried with them the payment of contributions for pension, disability, health and unemployment insurance. What is the essence of this law? The point is, they're on the school's set of certain net sizes under which you can't go. So guaranteed profit no longer exists as a profitable profit, but it exists as a profit and a category above which a tax on the personal income of workers will be charged, because we don't have an amended law. So any profit that will be above 230 dinars will be taxed by a 14% tax rate. So the lowest profit is going to be 470 dinars, and then we have 800 dinars, of 950 dinars, 1,200 dinars, 1,300 dinars, 1,700 dinars, 1,900 dinars and 2,300 dinars. Of course, you can make more money than these, but the lower one can't. Contribution to pension and disability insurance increased since 14.10 to 16%. Health insurance contributions increased from 8.6 to 9.7%. Total, 3%. Since contributions are paid both by workers and employers, the total increase in contributions is by 6%, and the basics are, as you can see, much increased. The funds will be filled, probably, and how the private and social enterprises will support, we don't know. That's what we'll see when the law starts to apply, so maybe we'll pull it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1532	Thank you. Any other MPs answer for a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1533	As far as the findings are concerned, last night I explained in detail to her and to those present in the congregation. I'm sorry we didn't clear up last night. Fortunately, a number of people who keep asking questions realized that last night. We've explained it in detail. I have to say that some of the findings that have been made here are not true. First, it is not true that the rate of contribution is increased. It is not true that total interventions are increasing. The rate of contribution is not determined by this law. The contribution rate shall be determined on a new, defined basis, in disability, social protection funds, etc., with the consent of the Government. That rate will be recalculated by changing the base now. Even the working conclusion last night, on the boards, that by recalculating the rate, going to meet the total policy of minor arrest, by 0.5% in the calculated amount has been reduced. Therefore, it is not about increasing the rate, it is not about increasing the basics and it is not about increasing the burden of the economy. That's just not true. Secondly, it's not about any crime, it's about repairing a system that was in place at the time when the guaranteed profit had its meaning. Now it's causing us negative effects, and we want to correct it, not to fill the funds, but to protect the workers. Absolutely these measures are in the interest of protecting workers. That question was completely clear with the unions. It's about social rights. It's about their pensions. It's about their future. In all possible ways, these laws and inspection and inspection controls we must prevent gray labour markets, because it is an interest of employees, not in the interests of the state. This must be prevented in all possible ways. It's our basic mission. Partly solve it this way. The unions figured it out. We haven't disavowed collective contracts as a system of arrangements. On the contrary, they stayed. We've introduced certain reliefs. The government will assess who can't apply the minimum rate. Basically, we've secured the level of social rights to which the employer, when he hires a man, must count. He must provide funds for permanent health care and must pay a minimum rate on a minimum basis for pension law. Therefore, it is absolutely one human law, one fair and just law, and, with certain instructions, with certain methodological solutions that we will do with the relevant funds and with the relevant ministries, I am sure that we will provide an incomparably more favourable situation of both directions: legalization of work, work on black, financial disciplines and higher financial revenues in funds, which are exclusively used to meet social needs and social protection functions.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1534	I thank the ministers. I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. (Employer Kostadinovic asks for a word. Mr. Kostadinović, you had your word. Place the card, please. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. 148, against 29, abstentions, were not voted by two, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Legislative Committee and by a representative of the Proposer at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act as a whole. For a vote of 152, against 31, with one abstention, one was not voted, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on employment and the establishment of the right of unemployed persons You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, which also contain amendments to those committees to the draft law. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs also concluded that before publication it is necessary to carry out a legal order by Article 6. The draft law became a Article 5, and Article 5 became a Article 6, which was agreed by the proposing representative at the Committee's session. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of Minister of Labour Tomislav Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1535	The reasons given for the previous law are fully valid. Since the base changes, everything changes in it.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1536	Do any of the MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1537	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we're sorry Mr. Secretary didn't state all the reasons he laid out on the Legislative Committee last night, not just under this law, but under all the laws. We would get answers to questions, which will be asked by citizens, knowing that we had a pension and disability insurance law, the Health Insurance Act and the unemployed. It's a shame you didn't tell us all here today, for example for pension funds, how much more money than it's ever been, given the existing regulations. It means something to that answer, whether it'll be a better situation with pensioners or unemployed this year. Will this situation and the amendments to some of the other regulations, which treat this matter, allow it to be 12 or 24 pensions in the following year? It's a question that interests everyone. The technique as it's done, calculated, what you're talking about isn't meaningless, and how important it is, but this is the thing that interests all of our citizens. Here we have one provision, which was also in the Pension Insurance Act, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the request of the employer for individual activities or employers, can establish lower basics of payment of contributions under certain conditions, which are listed here. It is now a very serious and dangerous thing, and it has to be explained, that it is not played out and that it does not create an unequal situation for individual actions and for individual employers. There's one good thing. I pointed it out yesterday. You are in the final position of article 41-b, and there was 149's, said that where this discount is given, it is one act that will be brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that individual act will be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It's also very important to know, who got and on which basis some discount, temporary or permanent. There are exceptional doubts, in various newspapers and comments there are stories about: They do not pay any contributions, they pay little contributions, these from contributions or other obligations cannot reach breath. So these are the things that I think would be useful to us, and I think it would be easier to assess whether it's good or not. But even then we seem to have said, there is one provision, which in future law, not once, should be with us anymore. It is a member of 125, which speaks of the basis, which is used for the calculation and payment of the contribution, if the profit or part of the earnings, or part of the remuneration, is paid by a delay of at least six months, so it will be. Please, as long as we are who we are, I don't think ever again (maybe it's still necessary today, something transitional), but never again our regulation should regulate the situation of what will happen in those cases when earnings are more than six months late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1538	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 151 against 35, no one abstentioned, no one voted, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Legislative Committee and by the proposer's representative at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The amendment was agreed by a representative of the legislator at the session of the Legislative Committee. I would like the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs to make a statement on this amendment. Acceptance. ) Since it has been accepted, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The amendment was agreed by a representative of the legislator at the session of the Legislative Committee. I would like the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs to make a statement on this amendment. Acceptance. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The amendment was agreed by a representative of the legislator at the session of the Legislative Committee. I would like the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs to make a statement on this amendment. Acceptance. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted an amendment to Article 8 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Legislative Committee and by a representative of the Proposer at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I agree that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Law on the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons in general. They voted 154, against 35, abstentioned one, and a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons. I suggest we work until 13:30, when we have a reception with the President of the Republic, so I suggest we finish it, and if we can finish it all, then we can stay there as long as you like. Do you agree? - Agree. ) We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Law You have adopted a bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, which also contain amendments to those committees on the draft law. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the people's messengers want a word? He wants to. ) There is a word from MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1539	I said earlier that the health insurance contribution increased from 8.6% to 9.7%, to which the minister denied me and told me it wasn't. From where I came to that percentage, I'll tell you now, so read it to you. The bill of law that we received in light of...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1540	That law passed, don't, well, yeah, talk about it, then fine.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1541	So in part of the argument, page 2, it is said this way: "These changes are also proposed that the basis for paying contributions makes net earnings increased only for social security contributions". It is now increasing by the amount of tax, which will necessarily condition the adjustment of the health insurance contribution rate from 8.6 to 9.7%, i.e. the total amount for insurance and employer from 17.2 to 19.4%. Whether it's bigger 17.2 or 19.4, you decide, but this is in the material of the bill, as it says in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in part of the argument, the last paragraph, that the rate increases from 14.10 to 16%. This is the law given to the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1542	There's a word from MP Zoran Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1543	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll arrive at the President of the Republic, don't be so impatient, there's time. (Tomislav Nikolic throws, from place: Yes, but the Wolf has already arrived, man. ) First of all, I must express my disagreement with the fact that the material on such important issues of life, such as amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, amendments to the Health Insurance Act and amendments to the Law on Employment and Rights of Unemployed Persons, was delivered one day before the session of the Serbian Parliament. If I hadn't been a member of the Legislative Committee, I wouldn't have gotten the material yesterday, but I would have won today right before this session. I thought it was the specialities of some local congregation professional services, however, I see it's a rule here in the Republic Parliament. I have to tell you about an event that happened recently in Chačka: a man came to raise his pension, a pensioner in swimsuits, and slippers in this snow, and on the counter in the bank, they asked him, "Okay, man, are you normal, what are you wearing like that?" He says, "You know what, which pension is now paid? "They say, "Agustovska." And I think we're in August of the month, which is why I came in my bathing suit. I think it's true, gentlemen, don't laugh at the tragedy of these people, the tragedy of our parents, who have worked 35 or 40 years each and every one of them paid for the pension fund all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1544	Please don't win. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1545	What 35 years are...
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1546	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda, no more anecdotes.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1547	... Or 40 years of paying off, and now there's no pension fund. Regarding the agenda, a proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act, how now that pensioner goes to the pharmacy to buy drugs. I assume that this health insurance law regulates the matter of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, which, with the government's consent, will establish among other things a positive list of medicines that a man will be able to obtain at the pharmacy. I as an employee and whose company pays regularly and pension-involved insurance, contribution for the unemployed, believe me, I don't remember the last time I was able to make a prescription at the state pharmacy and get a cure. I go to the state pharmacy, I show the recipe, and I say, please, is this medicine on the positive list? He says yes. And I say, do you have this medicine? We have money, but we don't have a prescription. As one of the positive lists, I have a prescription. And he says to me, "When the fund pays us..."
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1548	Please allow the MP to complete the presentation. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1549	So, I don't see the purpose of paying contributions to health insurance or at least part of the contribution if I can't get absolutely no cure from a positive list. I also held a session of the Legislative Committee, since these three laws were bound in some way, and a single principle debate could be opened for three laws, asked the Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and, among other things, raised some issues... I think these are too serious questions to be dealt with or treated like this by unserious people.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1550	Keep going, don't listen.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1551	The explanation that privates do not pay contributions to the profits they pay will not pay privates now. Believe me, they will turn these contributions over to the employees, and they will reduce their earnings. So, perhaps the pension and health fund will pick up a few more, however, it will be at the expense of the citizens again. Furthermore, private people do not work, in fact people who are employed in the social sector, who take sick leave or are on various waitings, and pension, disability and health insurance rights come to fruition in social enterprises that are falling apart, and this is how we laugh here in front of New Year's, and on black they work with privates. I asked the question - are we going back to some administration, we simply prescribe by administrative means the net basis on which the contributions are paid. I asked the minister, in parallel law, in modern countries, perhaps in China and Belarus, but probably in those countries that we should look up to, where market principles exist, in which way comes to these foundations. I have to say this, so if the state can't, through the inspection authorities, catch an employer who doesn't pay on that basis that pays an employee's contribution to health insurance and all of these employees, we just now prescribe a mandatory basis for everyone. I've plastically illustrated it on the Legislative Committee in the case of criminal penalties, fines in criminal law. For example, the state admits that it can't find the perpetrators of criminal acts, and among other things, the funds to charge the budget are also fined in criminal proceedings, so we should say, since courts and republican public prosecutors are unable to catch criminals, go to jail or pay fines, (let's make a law that every citizen goes to jail for 20 days a year and each citizen pays for a certain amount of cash in the name of a fine, to fill the state budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1552	Mr. Jovanovic, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1553	That's the logic followed by the legislator of this law. Furthermore, one question arises, since according to the Labour Relations Act, the legislator is authorised to establish by his internal act specific conditions for the performance of certain work and tasks and I have expressed concern and I have suggested to the representatives of the Government on the Legislative Committee, that each Serb, as God has given him, will try to find a hole in the law, so simply a private person in his normative act prescribe a basic school as a condition for some very complex work and tasks, will hire, for example, a technologist, tell that technologist to show the basic school and pay all these contributions to 270 dinars, instead of the basis prescribed by this law. At the end of this session, I want to congratulate all the MPs, the Government, the President of the Assembly and all the citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia on the New Year, but I will congratulate the pensioners on April 1st, because the 12th pension for 1998 will be granted on April 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_1998-12-28-0.u1554	Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. 150, against 29, three abstentions, did not vote four, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The 40th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Legislative Committee and by the proposing representative, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Health and Family and the Representative of the Proposers, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 44th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Legislative Committee and by the Proposer representative, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Health and Family and the Representative of the Proposers, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Health and Family and the Representative of the Proposers, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act as a whole. 150 voted against 30, three abstentions, two did not vote, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the maintenance of Buildings You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has accepted the bill, in principle and in particular, and is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt it as a whole. The Legislative Committee also accepted the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings in principle. The vote was 176, against two, four abstentions, one did not vote, a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly adopted the draft law amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings in general. The 179th vote against four, one abstention, was not voted by three, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on the maintenance of residential buildings. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Special Rights and Obligations of Selected Persons You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a principled search. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The 177 vote against no one with abstentions was voted by five MPs, a total of 182 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the law on special rights and obligations of elected persons in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm closing the vote. No one, the abstentioned, was voted by one MP, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted the draft law on the termination of the Law on Special Rights and Obligations of Selected Persons. Please, let me say something. We are at the end of the 1998 calendar, but also at the end of the autumn session that expires tomorrow. It is an opportunity to remind ourselves of what we did during this year and prepare for what we will be obliged in 1999 to perform the functions set out in the constitution when it comes to the competence of the National Assembly and to us individually as Members of the People. It is certain that in front of the National Assembly, as the holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in our Republic, it will be a large and complex business. In the name of a better life for all citizens of our Republic, in the name of peace, in the name of the integrity of our Republic, we are ready to respond to these obligations more and more and more engaged than it was this year. And this year we have chosen the Government of National Unity, we have reached a political consensus on the most important political issues and it has been reached on a platform that defines the indivisibility of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we have defined ourselves as a dialogue in solving political problems, but also a stoic continuity in determining that all matters of life and the work of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are resolved without imposing solutions and judgments on the side. And when it comes to this year, I'll remind you that we held nine sessions, with a total of 67 agenda points, and that 88 acts, laws and decisions were made. Let me wish all of you and your families good health, much personal happiness in the next 1999. See you next year. [[Applause]]
