ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the ninth Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U2	First, we will hear the oath of the Supreme Court member Paavo Randma. I beg you to speak, Mr. Randma!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U3	Good morning. Let us begin by thanking the honourable MPs for their confidence in the vote on Tuesday. Thank you. Now to the oath. I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U4	I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Government of the Republic withdrew a bill of intent to raise taxes. The purpose of this cluster proposal was to increase excise duty, which would lead to overall price increases, and also to increase the VAT rate for economic institutions. Such plans were not published before the elections, and now we see that pressure to deal quickly with draft laws comes from Stenbock's house. By interrupting this debate, you took the opportunity of the opposition to have their amendments voted in this Chamber. I have reason to believe that, in the long hours of the night, many of our amendments would have received support from outside the opposition. This procedure of drafts does not correspond to the meaning of the Constitution and will certainly nullify the role of the Riigikogu and you will therefore assume that I will hand over a motion of distrust to the Prime Minister. I call on all of you to join the mistrust, we are still collecting signatures. Above all, I appeal to the Free Party, but certainly also to those people who do not support the planned tax increases. These votes are due Monday. At the moment, however, I am discussing an inquiry with the Prime Minister, who is putting pressure on such urgent pressure. 22 members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry. We ask why he brings the clusters to the Riigikogu in this way, why he demands that the Riigikogu ignore the working and rules of procedure. And also: we assume that he will eventually come before the Riigikogu after a month of distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U6	Mark Soosaare, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give a draft to the Riigikogu proceedings, which cannot be turned into a cluster or anything else and which cannot open Pandora's box. The title of this draft is "The Act supplementing § 101 of the Jah Act and § 5 (1) of the Small Islands Act'. The initiators are Urve Tiidus, Maire Aunaste, Rein Ratas, Toomas Kivimägi, Kalle Laanet, Jevgeni Ossinovski and the speaker here. It may seem like a microscopic bill, but we know that sometimes the devil is in the details. In fact, in the previous Riigikogu there was a very heated dispute and a quarrel between landowners and hunters, but the small island communities were forgotten. This is a draft which gives the small island councils and the smaller islands' general councils the right to express their views on the manner and volume of implementation of the Hunting Act. Because it is true, in many small islands, guest hunters from other European countries have organized quite decent massacres of immeasurable size, destroying rare birds. We hope that communities will be able to contribute to this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U8	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of six members of the Riigikogu, these members of the Riigikogu are Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaaas, Tanel Talve, Kristjan Kõljalg, Jaak Aaviksoo and Mihhail Stalnukhin. This is the draft material we received from the Consulate General of the Republic of Estonia in Sankt-Peterburg. The aim is to extend the period of validity of identity documents in order to reduce red tape and public expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U10	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Estonian Handball Support Group will take place in this Chamber, and the convener will be Märt Sults. We're looking forward to active participation. Good fellows, let's do the presence check, please! 97 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U11	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! As we recall, President Ilves has said from this very remote control that what has brought us here will not take us forward. Indeed, both state reform and local government reform have been discussed for a long and long time. Today we all have the opportunity to press the green button, with which we will give the Minister for Public Administration the legal instruments to deal with it more seriously. I invite you all to press the green button! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U13	Thank you. I ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U14	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For me, the miracle show I was talking about last night continues. You may not believe it, but there were never real third readings in which questions were asked, and the political groups and Members could propose improvements. Now I see that, in the current procedure, an empty number of mathematicians, expressed in the language of the former custom, has survived. In a way, you could say that we have an egg imitation in front of us, which is actually made up of an empty eggshell. Since all of this is so well-witted, I cannot even ask the most experienced people who were the nice language editors who reviewed this draft and announced that there were no linguistic comments and that, judging from this area, the law could be passed. Maybe someone would like to answer, but the rules won't allow it. Well, at least that's a rhetorical question for a verbatim, even though I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U15	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U16	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Central Party Group is of the opinion that the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic is essentially a change in the organisation of work within the government, and that is the competence of the Government of the Republic. The Centre Party Group does not argue against this. However, in the run-up to second reading, the Government of the Republic submitted amendments to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which do not coincide in any way with the original idea of reorganising internal government working arrangements. Our group can no longer agree with that. It's a bad practice. Remember, following the Gender Equality Act, the composition of the Tallinn City Council was increased. This bill looks exactly the same. Another reason why the Centre Party Group cannot support the draft is that the law is partly planned to enter into force on 1 July. Today it is 11 June and I believe that it is not appropriate for Parliament to put the President of the Republic and the Official Journal of the Republic in a forced position, so that the President should announce it in an accelerated fashion. The Centre Party Group opposes this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U17	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote. Dear colleagues, bill 36 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, and before the final vote we will do a verification of presence. 97 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 4. Dear colleagues, I will put the bill 36 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. Bill 36 of the Act amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-11_U18	Let's move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 23 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. Bill 23 of the Act amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The second item is closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.16 a.m.
