ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the first plenary session. First of all, please come to the speaker's desk for those who wish to hand over drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on State Fees. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on collective labour dispute resolution. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Rannar Vasiliev, Minister of Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts and the Management Board of the Riigikogu delivers them on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 89 people present, 12 missing. The next step is to confirm the weekly agenda. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Centre Party Group proposes to exclude item No 6 from the agenda on Wednesday, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, because, at today's Constitutional Committee meeting, items were included in the draft, amendments which are not in any sense related to this draft. This law has become the nature of the bill in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to add that the same treatment, i.e. exclusion from this week's agenda, would deserve the same item as item 6 on the amendment of the Government Act, as well as item 4 on the amendment of tax laws, as well as the draft law amending labour market services and subsidies and other laws. All of them have been dealt with too quickly and too little time has been left to make and table amendments. Our request is to exclude these three points.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U7	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I am opposed to the proposals concerning the shortening of the existing Wednesday agenda and the withdrawal of the three drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U9	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U10	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. As I understand it, the coalition believes that the Wednesday agenda can be endorsed as such, i.e. with agenda item 6. However, I have a suggestion to you as President of the Riigikogu and to the President of the sitting that you address the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the same subject as the Chairman of the Centre Party Group, Kadri Simson, that, in the case of a draft entitled 'Law amending the Government Act and related amendments to other laws', it is not appropriate for the Commission to include, for example, amendments relating to the planning law, which have no connection with the content of the draft. Could you draw the Commission's attention to the fact that this is not in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U11	The Bureau is grateful for all the good recommendations given to it, but little will help to approve the weekly agenda. We have proposals to remove points 4, 6 and 7 from the Wednesday agenda. As the Reform Party Group protested against this, I will vote on this week's agenda in the form you have on the table without any change. Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, with 37, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U12	Members of the Riigikogu Märt Sults, Jaanus Karilaid, Viktor Vassiliev, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Lenk, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Olga Ivanova, Aadu Must, Mikhail Korb and Toomas Vitsut have submitted the first question on our agenda today. On behalf of the heirs, the March Sults will perform. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U13	Honorable Chairman! Minister! Honourable Riigikogu! The title of the inquiry is 'Compensation of life', but it is a bit misleading, as our inquiry is basically about the violation of the principle of inequality of treatment and problems encountered in the implementation of the property reform. But now the inquiry itself. Dear Minister, The Tallinn City Housing Fund consists of municipal buildings (municipal housing), social housing (social housing) and social economic entities (beds and family rooms). The city has 53 complete houses with 4472 apartments, 34 of which (2577 apartments) belong to the city and 10 other houses are used in cooperation with the private sector on Meel with 680 apartments and Raadiku with 1215 apartments. In addition, the city of Tallinn has established six social entities with a total of 487 beds. These 487 are for homeless people who are sober at 9:00 a.m. and get a bed while the rest sleep on the street. For various reasons, residents of the aforementioned houses often owe rent to the city. However, this has a significant impact on the subsequent payment of private capital liabilities for construction. The consequence is that it is in social housing that rents are largely above average high. At the same time, housing services are sometimes the only way to find a place to live. This indicates the necessity of the service. However, the price should not exceed the average rental price. Helping people in difficulty due to ownership reform or for other reasons must be one of the first tasks of the country. Thus, the state, in cooperation with the local government, needs to develop a mechanism to compensate for the rent, which will help ensure a reasonable price for housing for those in need. Tallinn continues to build municipal houses. The medical and nurses' house was completed in February at the Academy's 48th. In the coming week, the design of the teacher's house will start at Lasnamäe, Uuslinna Street 3a. However, the plan is to establish a senior house in northern Tallinn at Maleva 18, which means that pensioners can build their own house. On the basis of the above, we have the following questions for the Minister. First. Incorrect implementation of the ownership reform left many households homeless, so they are still in the position of a forced tenant in municipal/social homes where they do not have the right to privatise, which is one of the fundamental rights. Is and in what way has the State planned the elimination or mitigation of inequalities resulting from the ownership reform? Will the rent be compensated, the funding allocated for the privatisation of the rental premises, the state buys the rents from the municipalities or then privatizes them to the citizens? Second. Is and in what way the state will back and continue to support the initiative of Tallinn and other Estonian regions in creating rental spaces? Three. Is and in what way is it planned to index rent payments to elderly people, beneficiaries of disability pensions, large families, mission veterans, i.e. to what extent is the state interested in compensating for the difference between the cost of the service and the market price so that those who have granted the State can also receive from the State? I would also like to point out that, before the ownership reform was implemented, the families currently living between the cogs were a well-functioning state unit. They had all the housing, food, work, etc. necessary for life. But they were thrown into the street because the Germans, the Danes, the Swedes, who were once, long ago, owned their homes. Nobody compensated the people for the resources that kept these buildings, houses and facilities in order. I mean, they got thrown out on the street for their own money, and right now they're society's outcasts. State, please put an end to the injustice you've done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U14	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs, Honourable Riigikogu! I will respond to the request made on 29 April for compensation for housing. The first question: 'As a result of the incorrect implementation of the own reform, many households were left homeless, so that they are still in the position of a forced tenant in municipal/social buildings where they do not have the right to privatise, there is no right to become owner. Is and in what way the State has planned the elimination or easing of the inequality that arose in the course of the property reform? Whether the rent is compensated, the funds are allocated to privatise the rental premises, the state buys out the rental premises from the municipalities or then privatizes them to the citizens? 'The Government of the Republic does not intend to develop compensation mechanisms for tenants of dwellings returned to former owners. Various measures have been implemented in this area all along the way, starting with the former so-called EVP loans and ending with support for municipal housing. For example, the housing development plan focused on increasing the housing fund as one of the priority developments for 2003/2008. The State supported up to 50% of the construction of rental dwellings, the purchase of rental housing or the renovation of existing buildings/housing for the purpose of building rental homes. The aim of this measure was to address the problems of the tenants of returned houses by increasing the municipal rental fund and to support regional development by promoting labour mobility. In total, more than 1100 rentals of EUR 7 million have been supported. Nearly 3 million euros have been allocated to Tallinn, with 464 rentals, i.e. 42% of all supported surfaces. Access to housing and the right to a dwelling do not necessarily mean the right to have a dwelling. A rental relationship is also a normal basis for providing a suitable dwelling for a person. The second question: 'Does and in what way the state back-up and future support the initiative of both Tallinn and other Estonian regions in the creation of rental spaces? Under the Coalition Agreement concluded by the Social Democratic Party, the Reform Party and the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, it is planned to start the state-supported rental housing programme from 2017. It is also planned to update the law on the award of rental contracts. The rental housing programme is designed to be implemented in cooperation with local governments and aims to provide high-quality rental housing at a stable price. According to the State Budget Strategy 2016 to 2019, it is planned to allocate EUR 2.5 million in 2016 and EUR 5 million in each subsequent year for the launch of the publicly supported rental housing fund programme. Question 3: "Does and how is it planned to index rent payments to elderly people, beneficiaries of disability pensions, large families, mission veterans, i.e. to what extent is the State interested in compensating for the difference between the cost of the service and the market price? " Rental relationships are governed by the Law of Obligations Act. According to the law, the amount of rent is not excessive if it is not higher than the normal rent for a dwelling with the same location and condition. If the rent is excessive, the tenant must submit the application for the reduction of the rent to the lessor in a form which can be reproduced in writing. Thus, the Law of Obligations Act provides for a mechanism which allows for an excessive reduction of rent to be required. A person is also entitled to income support if his/her monthly net income after deduction of the permanent expenses of the dwelling is below the subsistence limit. No other measures are planned to compensate for the difference between the cost of the rental service and the market price. A stable rental price, as well as a long-term rental contract, is certainly essential for people. One of the problems that is certainly worth pointing out is the black rental market, without long-term rental contracts or without contracts at all. This is an issue that the Government Union has decided to address. We are trying to find a real solution to this by promoting the tax environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U16	Any questions for the Prime Minister? March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Forced tenants are far from the weakest class of society. The forced tenants are very strong and powerful because they can cope under inhumane conditions. I mean, they're very survivors. And unfortunately for you, they've survived, they're not dead yet. For the most part, forced tenants are low-paid, meaning they get a minimum wage or a little less. How do you think they get their rent paid and how much money is left for their cart?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U18	Thank you. Firstly, I cannot fully agree with the definition that there are only people among the forced tenants who earn a minimum wage or less, as you said. There have been people with very different social statuses among forced tenants. I have also had very close contact with this issue as a local government leader in Haaberst district in my time. There, the most recent problem of a forced tenant was solved precisely when I was a district manager. But when it comes to people who have difficulty managing, including paying rent payments, the income support system has been developed in Estonia. This means that the housing costs are covered and, in addition, the person must retain a certain minimum to cover other expenses. The government has agreed that, from the beginning of next year, we will raise the subsistence limit. If so far it has been EUR 90 per family member and it has risen to EUR 90 only this year as a decision of the previous government, of course with the help of Parliament, then now the plan is to raise it to EUR 130. Thus, the situation of those who are the most difficult to cope with will undoubtedly improve from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U19	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U20	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Some time ago, a forced tenant wrote to me, and I quote a part of his letter: "I will die before I get justice in this country. The apartment was taken away and spit in the face. See for yourself how you do it. I hate this country! If I was 30 years younger, I wouldn't be living here anymore. ' What should I say to this forced tenant?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U21	Thank you. Without knowing the specific circumstances more than in this letter, the first thing I would advise you to answer as a member of the Riigikogu is that there is certainly no point in hating the Estonian state. The Estonian state can always be criticised; those in the power of the Estonian state can always be criticised; this is the hallmark of a free society. But there's no reason for anyone to hate their country. On the contrary, we have to keep our country and work for it every day. As regards the alleged injustice of a particular person, I believe that your first recommendation as a member of the Riigikogu and the best advice for a specific person, you know a little more about the facts than you have read now, it is possible to turn to the local government. Local authorities have both employees and opportunities to solve people's problems. Without knowing which local authority the individual is from, however, I dare to express the hope that the municipality of the place of residence will be able to solve its problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U22	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U23	Thank you. My question is purely from a sense of justice. Do you think it's okay that some people could privatise their apartment and get back their or relatives' former property, while others were evicted from their place of residence and didn't get justice in court? At the same time, people who have been deprived of their homes have been legally living there, and all of these 50 years have kept this area habitable. These places would have broken down a long time ago and had a zero value, we know that. And we also know that there was no such total restitution in any other European country than Estonia. What is your assessment of this now, in retrospect?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U24	Thank you. It certainly was not the moment when people got back from their loved ones, relatives, illegally disposed of property. The moment of injustice was when a foreign power came and took away their belongings with power, sent their loved ones to Siberia, shot them. It was a moment of injustice. It is very, very difficult for me to see injustice when the heirs return to the houses of my forefathers. On the contrary. The injustice is also that people were unable to recover the other assets they had. It was largely permanently lost. Because of this injustice, the person responsible is not our Estonian state, but the occupying power. As far as people's chances of becoming owners in the early 1990s are concerned, in my opinion, even though I was neither a government nor a Member at that time, and I can only see this as a historical retrospect, it was also a rather widespread form of ownership of people, which took place with the privatisation of the Soviet housing fund, rather positive. Estonia also acquired a great many owners of the real estate that was built during the Soviet era. This created many new opportunities and more security for people compared to what was in the Soviet era when people were granted the right to live in an apartment, but formally they were still dealing with a rental relationship. If there has been any injustice, it was during the occupation when people were taken away with power from their homes and other property.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U25	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! I do not think that injustice towards one person can be explained and justified by injustice towards another person. They're both miserable, from a certain point of view. Right now, it's a different question. Since forced tenants have been given too much credit, both the local government and the government, who are helping to set up a housing fund, maybe it is time to re-evaluate the political decisions that were taken in the 1990s in order to reconcile people with the state. However, much of the real estate that was taken from people in the early 1940s was bought out and people emigrated from the country. I'm talking about the Baltic Germans.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U27	Question please! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U28	Is it maybe time to reevaluate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U29	I cannot imagine, in theory, how it would be possible to reverse the process of returning illegally disposed property. It is a private property of people to which they are fully entitled. If you take it purely from a point of view of justice and morality, I don't think that's right either. Regardless of who is responsible, and I believe that we agree that the culprit is the occupying power who illegally transferred the property, it was unfair. The people from whom the property was transferred or their loved ones, the heirs, are entitled to receive compensation for the injustice or to recover their property, if any. So, in my opinion, there is no reason to reconsider the decisions taken in the early 1990s, all the more so that, in the current situation, this would certainly no longer be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U30	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, as the representative of the heirs, Märt Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U31	Honorable Chairman! Mr. Prime Minister! The word about the emergence of forced tenants is that when alternative money came out, the yellow cards that were privatized, the next thing came out that could not be privatized. These were all very suspicious things. For example, the Sepa Quarter in Northern Tallinn and since the Tallinn Art High School Kopli 102a, from the school I led, towards the sea were buildings that could not be privatized, whether people had yellow cards or not. It was exactly the same in the summer areas, just like in the seashores. Lands that could not be privatized were selected. And these people are currently basically forced to be relocated, you said that you have eliminated the status of a forced tenant, either on Meeliku Street, Raadiku Street or somewhere else. Or maybe they're in a private-capitaled house that the city has built with its own resources not to send people to the streets. Local authorities have also built rents for their own money, which are significantly higher than rent, because the debt has to be paid, the rent has to be paid, and utilities have to be paid. Most forced tenants are already in retirement age. Now you're saying you can't reverse the process. Privatisation came in waves. First came the owners of the first stage, or heirs. They were privatized as much as they could. I guess the state mafia didn't get enough money. Second - degree privatisation, or second - degree relatives, was announced. That's when we were at a meeting, a pict, with the coercive tenants of North Tallinn and downtown. The whole place was crowded, we collected signatures, we handed over to the government, but it didn't work out, it wasn't enough money. A third wave was made. Some Jack or don't know who I'm not gonna say names, or maybe I'm gonna insult somebody, they're gonna find someone underground, and they're gonna ask him if you don't want to privatize, maybe you can pay the money. At the same time, there was a ring of buyers who bought up so-called 'privacy' items. Even school dormitories were perfect for the Kopli. Everything went to raffle. I mean, the state didn't do anything. They took it easy, we don't have any more forced tenants, they're all in place, everyone has some kind of angle. I'm sorry, I've been active in the Kopli for 20 years. I'm a schoolmaster, I'm on the streets, I'm in contact with people all the time. There are many who write such letters as Siret read. Such sentences I hear from morning to night. Well, I heard, because now I haven't been so close to Kopli in two months. I explain every day that there is no better country than Estonia, there is no better thing than your own country, there is no better chance than to protect your own country. I explain it every day. How do I explain when I come in the morning, in the evening, I come from anywhere, on the radio, on television, on the paper, quite the opposite, and in a abusive and humiliating text? Please let the people, I mean the pensioners, bloom and shine, say, on the last quarter of your life! Do something, respect them! If there's nothing else to do, apologize. Say yes, it's a bit of a bucket, but there's nothing we can do. But doing nothing is the biggest crime of all. Can't tell people every day that it's okay, we'll be fine. Yeah, the sissies can handle it. Don't eat that bread, eat another kind of bread. No butter, margarine. If there's no potato, they'll buy a ping. They'll wait 'best before' and say we can eat, we'll make it. They're gonna make it. I think that Estonian patriots are bigger than they are. Well, let's respect them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U32	Is there anything the Prime Minister would like to add? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U33	The authors of the next inquiry are Martin Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Arno Sild, Raivo Põldaru and Jaak Madison. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U34	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, we are presenting an inquiry into the immigration crisis in Europe. As we know, the wave of illegal immigration has hit the southern borders of the European Union, so the issue of the distribution of immigrants between Member States under quotas has been raised. I would point out that we are talking about not taking someone to Estonia, but sending someone to Estonia. We therefore have the following questions for the Prime Minister. First. It is known that immigration is a competence of the Member States according to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. I would point out, among other things, that when Estonia entered the European Union, we joined a referendum where our constitution was improved, and there was a very clear clause in that referendum that said that Estonia would join in the light of the Constitution and only under constitutional conditions. Please confirm or disprove whether the distribution of immigrants by quota between Member States is a voluntary decision of Estonia! Secondly, we ask what commitments Estonia has made in these talks. I would point out that we are talking not only in recent months, but also in previous years, because the subject is not new in Europe, it has toured for at least two or three years. And I also state that I do not mean, that is, our group does not mean official Estonian positions, but also discussions between ministers where Estonia has made any promises or commitments. Three. Has the government calculated what costs would be incurred in housing immigrants distributed under quota to Estonia? Again, if the government says that this is not a quota, then in any case the cost of hosting one immigrant or a whole portion of immigrants to Estonia will be included. The unit of time we're talking about could be at least a year. We want to know what the costs to the Estonian taxpayer are. Four. Is or how much is the cost borne by the Estonian taxpayer and does any part of the funding come from the European Union or from other Member States? Five. Why are illegal immigrants called refugees and why are immigration quotas not applied? Estonia has its own Aliens Act, which also lays down quotas for real quotas, Estonia's own quotas. Estonia's immigration policy so far has served our interests well, and according to its domestic logic, we have no reason or need to change our policies in this regard. But most importantly, the public is constantly misled by the use of various words, though 'a fugitive' or such, but in fact, most of the people who are wanted to be centrally distributed are simply illegal border crossingrs. Why are they always called refugees? Six. What is the government's plan if Estonia starts taking the country under the name of illegal immigrants refugees? Where are they gonna be, how long are they gonna stay, where are they gonna leave, or if they're gonna leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U35	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear heirs, good members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the inquiry on 4 May on Estonia's commitments and expenditure in connection with the immigration crisis that hit the European Union. The first question: 'Immigration is a Member State's competence according to the European Union's Treaties. Please confirm or disprove whether the distribution of immigrants by quota between Member States is a voluntary decision of Estonia! 'Migration is a shared competence between the European Union and the Member States within the framework of the Treaty on European Union. Article 3 (2) of the Treaty on European Union sets the following as one of the main objectives of the Union: 'The Union shall constitute an area of freedom, security and justice for its citizens without internal frontiers, in which the free movement of persons is ensured in conjunction with the implementation of appropriate measures relating to external border control, asylum and immigration, and the prevention and fight against crime. ' Article 4 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the area of freedom, security and justice is an area of shared competence between the European Union and the Member States. Pursuant to Article 78 of the same Agreement, the Union is to develop a common policy on asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection with a view to ensuring that all third-country nationals in need of international protection are in an appropriate position and that the principle of non-refoulement is respected. This policy must comply with the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951 and the Protocol of 31 January 1967 on the status of refugees and other relevant agreements. The second question: 'What commitments has Estonia made in these talks? ' Estonia has so far not participated in resettlement and resettlement programmes for refugees and has taken the view that it must remain voluntary for the Member States. Rather, we have preferred to express our solidarity in the form of financial and technical assistance to countries facing migratory pressures. Question 3: 'Has the government calculated what costs would be incurred in housing immigrants distributed under quota to Estonia? ' If applicants for international protection are accepted, whose procedure takes place in Estonia, they will be referred to the accommodation centre. The cost of the accommodation centre is EUR 324 per asylum seeker, plus the overall annual preparedness fee of the accommodation centre, which does not depend on the number of people in the centre. This fee, an amount of EUR 101000 per year for the entire Centre. When persons who have already received international protection arrive in Estonia and are immediately transferred to local governments, the Estonian state is estimated to spend an average of 1800 euros on language training and translation services for one refugee. It takes about 400 euros per month to give home to one refugee household, and the country has an active support period of two years. There are also European Structural Funds that can cover part of the expenditure related to refugees. Question 4: "Whether or not there are costs to be borne by the Estonian taxpayer and whether any part of the funding should come from the European Union or from other Member States? ' The European Commission's allocation to Estonia for seven years through the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund is more than 10 million euros. To implement the projects, the state must add 25% of the co-financing and 20% of the allocation, i.e. the circa 2.5 million must go to the area of asylum, the rest is for integration and voluntary or forced return activities. Where appropriate, amounts for asylum may be increased at the expense of other areas. If Estonia decides to participate in resettlement or relocation, the European Commission will add €6 000 per person brought here as a lump sum. This is the amount to which Estonia does not have to add anything as compulsory self-financing. Question 5: 'Why are illegal immigrants called refugees and why are immigration quotas not applied? ' Persons who are illegally present and applicants for or beneficiaries of international protection are different target groups. The applicant for international protection is not an illegally staying person but is a person who has submitted an application which is pending at the Police and Border Guard Board and for which no final decision has been taken. Question 6: 'If Estonia starts taking illegal immigrants under the name of refugees into the country where they are placed, how long will they stay and where will they leave or where will they stay? ' If applicants for international protection whose international protection procedure is in Estonia are accepted, these people must initially be placed in the accommodation centre. The duration of stay at the accommodation centre depends on the duration of the international protection procedure and the decision taken on the application. The average duration of stay in the accommodation centre is six months. An applicant who is recognised as a refugee or beneficiary of subsidiary protection shall be granted international protection and a temporary residence permit and shall benefit from the second option described below. Alternatively, the option might be that once people have already been accepted as beneficiaries of international protection, they will be immediately transferred to local authorities. They are granted a residence permit for three years, for one year for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. If the circumstances in which the residence permit was granted have not ceased to exist and there are no other circumstances leading to the revocation of the residence permit, the residence permit may also be renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U37	Questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! In the beginning, 326 refugees were spoken of. A little later, it was confirmed that there were 1064. Even later, a solid German newspaper announced that it was only the beginning and wrote which country and how many refugees in North Africa would have to receive. Estonia had about 10,000 refugees on that list. Can you confirm or disprove the claim that this is only the beginning of the process? If only those refugees who are currently in southern Italy and Greece are to be distributed, is it really Estonia's obligation to receive 10,000 12000 refugees? How do you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U39	Thank you. No, the order of magnitude you are talking about is certainly not realistic. It is true, however, that the European Commission has proposed to allocate a total of 60000 refugees according to the quotas they have calculated, and indeed, according to their proposal, more than 1000 people should come to Estonia. We have stated publicly and also informed the Commission that we believe that their calculation methodology is based on a logic error. This calculation is not proportional to the size of the countries, so it must definitely be changed. If we can justify this with arguments, I believe it is also possible to enforce Estonia's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U40	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U41	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You have, in fact, already said in response to the questions asked in our inquiry what is always about to be confused. Indeed, for seven years, 10 million euros have been allocated to Estonia to receive so-called refugees, who are, in fact, illegal immigrants, once again dim when you call them refugees. This means that we are indeed at the beginning of the process. We're talking about a thousand now, but next year maybe three thousand, maybe five thousand the next year and maybe fifteen thousand in seven years. You deny it, of course, as you always deny all things that are uncomfortable to you. But here's my question. There are fifty million refugees in the world, I stress: a refugee, not an illegal immigrant. How much is Estonia ready to receive under your leadership in the next seven years?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U42	Thank you. However, I urge not to get carried away with throwing these thousands. The specific amount that has been allocated during the budgetary period is, if I say so by heart, more or less the same as that which was allocated to us in the previous period. And these European Union instruments are not linked to the current crisis, far from it. It simply provides an opportunity, as a principle, for countries to take their activities related to the integration of people from other countries to a better level, to teach people the language, to help them get a job. All such activities have been funded in the past seven years. So it is certainly inappropriate to see any connection between the European funds and the number of refugees coming to Estonia. The Estonian Government has not yet confirmed its official position and therefore I can only say my personal attitude. I believe that it is neither possible nor reasonable for Estonia to be quite sidelined in resolving the crisis. But it is also clear that we cannot help more than we can afford. The number proposed by the Commission, to receive more than a thousand people, is not in line with Estonia's possibilities, nor with Estonia's role in the European Union. The proportion corresponding to our size should be much smaller. Should we show openness and, as far as possible, welcome people? I think so. We are talking about a much smaller size than what the Commission has proposed, but we should not be left out. This is where I hope that we will also be able to hold a substantive and less emotional discussion in Parliament. It may be quite certain that if we go to the European Commission to negotiate with such a position that we do not want to hear or see anything, nobody, and say that you solve your own problems and we do not participate in it, there is no way to convince the Commission to withdraw their original proposal, which is too big from our point of view. That is when it happens that, on the one hand, we demonstrate ourselves as expressions of anger and intolerance, but, on the other hand, our involvement in solving the problem is even greater than we would really like. This is the most negative course of action, and it is therefore my call to you, good Members, to discuss this issue constructively. We need to discuss what we should do to increase Estonia's capacity, discuss where the limits of Estonia's opportunities go, and also discuss how to convince the European Commission and what is the order of magnitude that our country can achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U43	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The new audit of the National Audit Office reveals that there is no alternative to bringing more work from abroad to alleviate rising unemployment, otherwise the situation will weaken the Estonian economy. Of course, the economy has been standing for the last eight years; in this respect, it is nice that the National Audit Office now also notices this. I understand that the European Union has also seen this concern and has now given Estonia a helping hand, ready to relocate an unlimited number of refugees. Do you share the view of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U45	Thank you. The National Audit Office certainly did not say that unlimited numbers of refugees should be relocated to Estonia. External staff is a much broader concept. There are already many people of different nationalities who have come here from the countries of the European Union, from Asia to a very large number of places in Estonia, and not as asylum seekers or refugees. This is a migration that has been necessary and which companies in this area have considered very important, but to a much smaller extent than the annual quotas that Estonia itself has established would allow. I cannot ignore this statement, too, as if the Estonian economy had stood for eight years. If you take it very mathematically, you might even find the truth in some of it. But let's just remember a little bit what's really happened. In 2009, there was an unprecedented financial crisis worldwide, and the Estonian economy was also in a very large recession. The collapse was followed by one of Europe's biggest economic growths in 2011 and the Estonian economy has grown every year since 2011. So even if the sum of the sum of finds a period that gives the sum of growth and decline to zero, then the fact is that stagnation can only be said mathematically. Yes, there was a very big crisis in the Estonian economy, and we also know what the reasons were. It was global, but there has been a very rapid recovery since the crisis. So there's certainly no way to call it stagnation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U46	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have highlighted some figures of sums paid to refugees in Estonia, but this is only part of it. The law on granting international protection to a foreigner lays down exactly what the grant is paid for. In addition, rent support, support for the purchase of furniture, apartment repair, etc. They also benefit from all the benefits and benefits offered by the Estonian state and local governments. My question is this: do you not think that, together, these grants will cost more than EUR 1 000 per refugee per month? You spoke of solidarity and anger as a reason why we are not wanted to see mass immigration. Don't you think it's all really against our own population, over a quarter of whom live in poverty and tens of thousands of children are starving?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U48	Thank you. The Government of the Republic has planned and partly, with the help of the Parliament, already legalised a number of decisions that greatly improve the livelihood of Estonian people, especially those who need most support from families with children, as well as recipients of income support. There are quite a few other plans in this area. I do not believe that the people of Estonia are jealous of the people asking for refuge from the war, for whom we guarantee the necessary life in need. The life of a refugee is by no means a luxury. These people have risked their lives to escape war zones. Many of them have left their lives. To say now that we should somehow feel envious that they are being offered an emergency shelter with the support of the Estonian people, I don't know. I believe that the people of Estonia have a sense of solidarity, that if someone is still in great trouble, we will not turn our backs and try to help as far as we can. Clearly, we cannot solve the whole problem. Even much of this cannot be resolved by Estonia. But quite aside, we can't really turn our backs.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I was under the impression that you didn't actually answer the other side of question 5 by the inquisitors. I will then ask whether the heirs are on the right track if they expect refugees to use another term here outside our country's immigration quota. If so, please explain whether this is the case and why this is the case. And if that is not the case, tell me whether the government is planning to change our country's immigration quota.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U51	Thank you. I hope that I am not mistaken in my head, but as far as I know, refugees are not going under the immigration quota. It should, in fact, be checked for certainty. But I know by heart that the annual immigration quotas in Estonia are mostly not full. Fewer people have settled in Estonia than quotas would allow. But the answer to the direct question of the change in quotas is that there is no such plan. The number or limit of people has been stable from year to year and there is currently no reason to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U52	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Today we have heard you twice call on the Riigikogu to discuss this issue. I propose that we talk a little bit more about the issue of refugees or immigrants. Unlike you, I have been to these refugee camps, including those on the Italian coast. I dare say I know about the ethnic group and the background there. Perhaps you could explain to us, in a debate, what you are actually discussing in Brussels. Are you talking about these people coming from Italy and Greece? Right now, they come from there every day. As you know, over 6,000 people came in the last 48 hours alone. Are we talking about people already in the camp, or can Estonia choose who comes from, where and what kind of camps?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U54	Thank you. Actually, to put it frankly, we're talking about both things. And there is also a great deal of talk about how to deal with the root causes of the problem, how to deal with the socio-economic situation in these regions, how to combat illegal trafficking in human beings, how to destroy ships that transport people across the Mediterranean in a very dangerous way. Next, the topic has been resettlement and relocation, which in Estonian should be'resettlement' and'relocation'. I'm sorry if I can't find the right term now! But it is both, as you described. Some people who have already arrived in the European Union have received refugee status. The term used for them applies to a fairer distribution between different countries. However, in parallel, we are also talking about those who are in the camps in North Africa and who are similarly wanted to benefit from different quotas when they are brought into the European Union. Quotas are slightly different in detail, but on the proposal of the European Commission, both for resettlement and relocation have been treated as part of Estonia, say, about 2% of the total problem solved. In my opinion, it is still unfairly large. First of all, because we have to consider what our ability is. We do not really have much experience, and we have had relatively little to do with asylum seekers in a very long time, especially when compared with other countries. Secondly, the very strong argument for me is that the size of Estonia in the European Union is 0.2 rather than 2%. If we take GDP, we are 0.14% of the European Union, if we take it by population, then we are 0.26%. So whether we talk about people in the camps in North Africa or people who have already reached Europe, in any case, if we find the key to solving the problem, we would prefer to talk about voluntary quotas rather than compulsory ones. And we would like to see the agreement, also voluntary, taking into account the size of the countries more fairly. At the moment, we estimate that this is too much for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U55	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In Question Time last week, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur spoke about the fact that refugees are not placed in the same way as Vaos, i.e. centres, but rather in different municipalities through the Minister of Social Protection. When they are placed in municipalities, the children of refugees will also come to a large number of municipalities, who need to get the school to complete education. Do you see additional funding for local governments to train these children? I am thinking of both language learning and education levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U57	Thank you. Well, now we're taking several steps at a time. At the moment, we are not in a position to have people going to specific municipalities. But I'm sure you'll have to think about it too. The state should certainly support their language learning and integration into society. It is not possible for us to create educational institutions in different languages throughout Estonia. That's out of the question. The prerequisite should still be that if there are refugees with children, it is also possible to provide them with an education in Estonian. And, of course, these things need to be dealt with step by step. In any case, I am prepared to discuss how the state can support the municipalities in this regard. I myself have spoken to the local government leaders, who have quite seriously asked where to turn in order to invite some people to their parish or to visit them. This has been said, and it shows that in fact, attitudes across Estonia are not so unambiguously closed. If I am not mistaken, there was also a more detailed overview of Postimees, at least in one of the major daily newspapers, where local government leaders were interviewed. They said that if the State supported it economically, so that the municipality would not retain very high financial obligations, they would be quite prepared to discuss the fact that some people would also be admitted to the territory of their municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U58	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U59	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In 2014, a record number of 600,000 people applied for asylum in the European Union. In 2013, less than 40% were sent to return. The Commission has come up with the idea of presenting a legislative proposal by the end of this year for a mandatory and automatic relocation system. Can you introduce the Commission's plan and say what it means for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U60	Thank you. Estonia's position should be in shaping right now. We will definitely also come to the Riigikogu, namely the European Union Affairs Committee. The Minister of the Interior can explain all the details and then, together with the Government and the European Union Affairs Commission, we will shape Estonia's position. The Council has not yet mentioned this specific issue. First of all, the Ministers of the Interior, and then, if deemed necessary, we are, of course, ready to discuss this also at the Council. So the formation of Estonia's position is now in work and should come, I expect, this week also to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U61	And now Aadu Black asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U62	Thank you. There are many different examples, but there are also many very far-reaching successful people in different societies who were not born in the same country where they were successful. Very many Estonians have achieved their world fame in another country. I don't think I need to give you these examples from all over the world, you probably know a lot. Very many leading companies at the level of top management or founder are people born in another country. In general, there is quite a lot of movement in today's world, and Estonia has been a rather exceptional phenomenon here, with relatively few movements. In this sense, there are probably many examples in the world to illustrate both this and the second argument. But the first part of your question concerned whether the core of the problem is being dealt with. The answer is yes, of course. It's a parallel process. I also mentioned earlier that, starting with the socio-economic situation in the region, the opportunities for Europe to contribute to this, and ending with the fight against traffickers, their prosecution, the destruction of boats, there are very many specific things that are being done. The possibility of going off to the North African coast to destroy boats has also been discussed, so that people do not have to travel with life-threatening means of transport at all. This, however, requires very thorough legal analysis and is not just as simple, all the more so as there is no single government in Libya that can give its consent. The situation is very difficult, but, of course, it is being dealt with very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U63	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! We've been talking about numbers and numbers for a long time, and it's pretty dark, I don't get it. I think that, like me, most of the people in this Chamber are still interested in a particular number. How many do you think we're willing to accept?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U65	Thank you. Estonia's opportunity to participate in this problem should be proportionate to our size in the European Union, i.e. by GDP, population or their arithmetic average. This means that the quota currently proposed is about eight to nine times greater than the fair solution for us, which corresponds to our ability. Whether and how well we manage to convince our partners that our starting point is the right one is difficult to say. Surely we cannot convince them to oppose the cross. We need to convince you, with arguments, that we need to show what are the reasons why the Commission's proposal is illogical from our point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U66	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I listen and listen to you, you keep rolling your rounds. But I still expect a specific bill from you. First of all, say numerically, specifically, how many places Estonia has where these immigrants can be placed. Secondly, you were talking about 2%, which could be a part of Estonia. What quota or figure do you calculate this by 2%? Is this the amount of people that reached Europe last year, which is about 600,000, or the supposed number that is coming from it? They're talking about five million. Talk about numbers!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U68	Thank you. First of all, places. You can't just say that because if we take people who are being placed in Vao's center, that's where we're talking about dozens of places. At the same time, not all people who have already received refugee status need to be isolated, some kind of centre. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is some specific number of places. For almost 2%, we are talking about the Commission's proposal, which Estonia has not agreed to, namely 1.75 to 1.86% have been through the discussions. It's estimated at 60,000. This is where the number that has been publicly operated comes from. At the same time, I have emphasised that this figure is too high for Estonia. It would be fair to rely on the size of Estonia, the share of Estonia in the European Union. The proportion of Estonia in the European Union can be measured objectively in two ways: either we are 0.26% of Europe's population, or we take the size of our economy, which is 0.14% of the European Union. Either way, it's more of a taste thing to think it's fairer. In any event, this is many times lower than the number proposed by the Commission. Today, there is talk of a total of 60000 or 20000 + 40,000 on resettlement and relocation, which is where the percentages are taken and that is how the figures are reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U69	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really like that wave of refugees from North Africa either. However, I do not think that the Estonian state has the moral right to refuse them. And I'm trying to explain to you why I think so. In 2003, an American general waved some white powder at Congress and said it was a mysteriously killing weapon. From that beginning to the end of the false statement, there was a military operation that estimated that between 800,000 and 130,000 people were killed in Iraq by humanitarian organisations. In fact, the UN Security Council gave no agreement to this operation. But that is why two results were achieved: Iraq's oil was seized by the United States and over 30,000 Saddam Hussein officers were imprisoned. I hope you've heard of a prison like Abu Ghraib and some others, Guantanamo and so on. The men got out of there little by little. What were they supposed to do? Find out where else to fight? And they were needed. The next one was the Libyan President and the Libyan State. Also oil and desire to move from dollar to local currency. There was a coup, a war, a complete anarchy. There are now two parliaments, two governments. It's a mess, there's a war going on. Another war, Syria. Bashar al-Assad is still fighting, but how long can he get? It is the same Islamic country against him, which is based on the same 30,000 officers in Hussein as the main military force. And they already know how to fight. The Estonian state in the form of its government, in the form of its parliament, did not say a word when Iraqis were killed. The Estonian state did not say a word about the war in Libya; it did not say a word against the war in Syria. We didn't say anything even when Egyptian President Moubarak was overthrown. But the fact that we watched what was happening in North Africa and the Middle East, among others in silence, created this war zone, which is estimated to have 18 million people moving towards Europe. That's a perfectly plausible number. In southern Italy, the Italian authorities are now officially reporting 350000 refugees, an informal estimate of There are others in southern Greece. Where do you think they're going next? They go where they're assigned. And we were silent when their homes were destroyed when they were killed. As our country, we were silent and we have no moral right to say no to them right now. You can argue with that ♪ these lands are far away, we didn't have anything to say in there. Was! Just as a man is made a great man, not by his growth or size, but by his courage, his ability to say no at the right moment, it also makes a great country when he sees that someone is being harmed. The next time it comes down to saying that one dictator or another is against democracy and that he definitely needs to be bombed, remember what we will already get in response to the previous bombings. Let us not be silent about Ukraine, too. There may be worse if we remain silent and fail to see the country, using warplanes and bombers bomb its own citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U70	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U71	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Good minister! What I'm saying is that you had an extremely cynical comparison with the forced tenants that illegals or war refugees, whatever, we can't turn our backs on those in trouble, and we have to lend a hand. But since the beginning of the '90s, you're being handed over by the tenants, but you're turning your back on them. Should they go as illegals to the African continent, then muck themselves for a couple of thousands of euros on some kind of rubber boat, drive to Greece and then come back to Estonia to become the subject of decent treatment here? I mean, they're valued, so they get benefits, they get housing, they get tree purchase money, they get food purchase money and they are really Estonians back again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U72	Thank you. In my opinion, this connection between the two is inappropriate and I would not go along with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U73	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U74	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr Prime Minister! You exhort us not to get emotional, and then you start telling us tears. But we do know that people who come from there as illegals throw their passports away and then declare themselves a refugee. Do you realize that this is the most massive human trafficking in Europe since they took slaves from Africa to America? The European Union, and it seems that Estonia also wants to participate with your consent. They're talking about some camps, and I don't know what else. You say we incite hatred, but you speak hate against your own people. We need to be closed if we don't want to die out. Of course, I also have a specific question: do I not know in Brussels what you are putting in your drink or what you are inhaling? have not been heard of such things as border surveillance and the return of illegals to think of some kind of crazy solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U75	Thank you. Quite certainly there have been reports of border surveillance in Brussels. The European Union has quite extensive border surveillance cooperation within the framework of Frontex, and Estonia has also contributed in quite a significant way to cooperation. At the same time, I believe that you can quite imagine how long the northern coast of the Mediterranean is and how difficult it is to guard it 100%. Estonian border guards have also participated in guarding the border. They have also rescued people from the sea who have been killed. I'm sure they'll keep doing that. My call for a constructive discussion was made precisely because there would be no irrational exclamations such as 'there are now thousands of people coming here! ', 'Now we have to set up camps! "and everything else. You can think of it that way in your fantasies, but the truth is, it doesn't have much in common. I said that Estonia can be a part of solving the problem, but we understand that we have our own borders that we cannot cross. We need to state in a reasoned and sober way why our limit is considerably lower than the number proposed by the European Commission. If we also went to the European Commission with slogans that you have probably already drawn for your meeting, you can quite be sure that the ears of both the Commission and other European countries will be deaf about this. We need arguments, we need logic, not emotional anger and opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U76	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U77	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! You mentioned, and I was right in the ear, that the active time of the country was two years. You know, we've already taken part in a lot of projects, the country has a pretty beautiful theory, and we're going to hurrah, but then it ends with local authorities taking on a bigger burden. But today we are talking about the clear picture that quite a lot of people should come to Estonia. My question is how many shelters we have in the country. We can't, say, take people to camps in the fall or winter. How many places are there where we can accommodate the people you've been talking about for so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U78	Thank you. Yes, as I said, Estonia does not currently have the capacity to receive a very large number of people. For this very reason alone, we must negotiate with the Commission and other countries and say that this proposal that the Commission has made is, in our view, unrealistic. But it must always be taken into account that all people coming to Estonia should not go to camps and isolation. In fact, the prerequisite might still be that it is possible, in principle, to find people who also want to integrate into society, go to work and participate in society as everyone else does. Personally, I would not want us to have camps where people have to live in isolation and at the expense of the taxpayer. That is certainly not the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U79	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U80	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! The Latvian Government has made it very clear that they are not in favour of a compulsory quota-based distribution of immigrants. I ask, first, when will the Estonian Government come up with a very specific, clear position. Secondly, I want to know whether, after Europe puts quotas on us, you will come to the Riigikogu to get permission and let us know how many immigrants we are obliged to accept.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U81	Thank you. Estonia has long stated that we are not in favour of quotas. And this is not only on this subject, but in general we consider voluntary approach and negotiation to be a much better method than command decisions and quotas. But as for shaping the positions of the Estonian Government, we are planning to discuss this topic at tomorrow's cabinet meeting. The Minister of the Interior will then come to the Riigikogu to receive the approval of the official positions of Estonia. So this is the order of operations. I believe that this is very likely to happen this week, because the Council, where Estonia's views must be represented, is already on 16 June. So we need to act relatively quickly. I believe that this position contains good arguments as to why the quota proposal proposed by the European Commission does not suit us. And in order for our position to be acceptable to the other party, the negotiating partner, it is probably reasonable to include our proposal on what can be done to help Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U82	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Two moments. You said that Estonia has borders and that we cannot accommodate anyone here indefinitely, but Europe, too, is well known to have borders. Has there been any discussion about what will happen then? It's not likely that coming across the Mediterranean will end with 6,000 people coming this weekend. You talked about integrating that there are money and funds to integrate refugees into Estonia. I guess it's meant to stay here if we integrate them and they start working. We have our own integration problems, but that's why. Here comes my second question. Perhaps there are good examples of where there are already other skin colored people. How has integration in Europe been successful there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I will continue with my colleague's question and ask whether it is fair for the country to find funding for the children of refugees. There was just news that Vastseliina School was being shut down where children with mental disorders were being studied. Or, for example, there is not enough money in our schools to form smaller classes where children with special needs would study. At the same time, we create structures and probably find specialists or train those who will deal with refugee children.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U85	Thank you. I do not think it would make any sense for such a contrast between the different areas. As far as the education of children with special needs is concerned, this is a very important issue. And it is very important that this school network, created and invested in children with special needs and in which tens of millions of euros have been invested in the past, is sustainable. If there are specific areas where it is foreseen that there are not enough children for continuous education, then the state, through the Ministry of Education and Research, must propose the most sensible solutions for organising education for children with special needs. This has been a longer process, the education network has been restructured, and it has provided an opportunity for many schools to improve very well. Estonia also has excellent schools for children with special needs, both in terms of the quality of education and in terms of everyday living. We know that children with special needs often need much more accompanying services, and therefore their schools are certainly more expensive for one student than regular schools. Rationality, where exactly to build these schools, how to plan this educational network, is a great responsibility for the Ministry of Education and Research. It must be dealt with in any case. But I wouldn't be opposed to different areas, it's a very, very slippery road. For a variety of things, the state needs to find money. If there is an important task to be done, then the resources must be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U86	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The current problems have largely been caused by the Arab Spring. NATO also supported this in its own time and helped, for example, to take down the Libyan dictator Gaddafi. What is your position as to whether the actions of your time were wrong or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U88	Thank you for your question. It's a pretty interesting starting point to blame NATO for everything. It is beginning to recall one such propaganda network that our eastern neighbour has, that in all the troubles of the world, the US and NATO are always seen as an evil hand, even though we know that this is not really the case. Although there were democratic processes in different countries that led to the overthrow of dictators, I find it quite inappropriate to say that this is the core of the problem. Let us consider that the regimes you are talking about tortured and killed thousands of people. It would be very cynical to think that the same dictators kept this problem on their yard. To say now that the fall of these regimes was somehow wrong or that they should have been kept up somehow with the support of European countries, in order for this problem to be on their yard, is, I think, relatively inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U89	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! An interesting column of the newspaper Hans H.Luig, published in Eesti Ekspress last week, suggested that Estonia could first receive orphans from Syria. Did you have an opportunity to read this article? If so, what do you think of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U91	Thank you. There's been a lot of ideas like that. Urmas Paet, MEP of the European Parliament, has also pointed out that, in a human sense, perhaps the most important thing would be to help children who are without parents, who are either in war monsters or in other gears. In a human way, I believe, there is a point. We have not discussed in the government this way that either and who would rather be people of working age, families or children rather. We are definitely not in this phase right now. But humanly, I see a point in that sense. Of course, then, it must also be very clear that these are children without parents, because if it turns out that they still have close ones, then it must also be taken into account that there may be a need for family reunification and that in this case there may be a large number of people. Let's just say we have to think about these issues calmly. We have not yet reached that point in the government, and this is not the time to discuss whether it is more of a child or rather a working age. But I do know that such proposals have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U92	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have this question as to whether there are already concrete plans on how the people who are already at the Vao centre will be directed. I've been asked by voters how long they've been playing football there. How long will they last there?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U94	Thank you. As you know, it depends on specific people. These are asylum seekers whose applications are examined one by one by one by the Police and Border Guard Board. Whether or not they are granted status, the decision is made whether to send people out of Estonia or to grant them permission to live. To say what this final deadline is for each individual is relatively difficult, but it is clear that the Police and Border Guard Board is constantly working on it. When they play football there, I don't know what to see. I also looked at the reports that one of your partymates went to do there, trying to make it look like there's something really bad about the local village. But when they heard the statements of the villagers there, they had, apart from the fears, which are probably irrational, in fact, no substantive reproach. Well, that's an indicator of its own. I would point out that there really are a lot of people with different lives in one place. This is where there are the most. If there should be any real basis for fear, then there should be an expression, but yet this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U95	This time the questions are over. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, as the representative of the heirs, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U96	How many minutes can I tell you?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U97	Five. And if you need more time, there'll be three more. But that's all I can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U98	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U99	Got it. Thank you. I think I'm gonna need some more time. We heard several calls from the Prime Minister on how this issue should not be addressed emotionally. I'm sorry, but for one thing, half of the issues in politics are emotional, and for another, the Prime Minister himself fell into emotions. Those tears of how unfortunate war refugees from Syria must go somewhere are demagogy and manipulation. We actually know that it is not the unfortunate seven-year-old girls who are fleeing from murder and rape that come from there, but from there thousands and tens of thousands of young men who have sold their mothers, sisters and daughters as victims of human trafficking to get together the money to be paid to traffickers and then to come to Europe. This is the real and real face of current immigration. This is trafficking in human beings that they want to contribute to. There's no way we can accept this, all the more so that this flood will never end. Africa will soon have over a billion people. We were admonished here that we are dealing with racism and hate speech. I have a question. Can people who are willing to take decisions that threaten the survival of the Estonian people in the long run really come to reproach us for their hate speech? It's a hate speech against your own people. Prime Minister, what have the Estonian people done to you to prepare for our destruction? At the moment, it seems to be the case that if this government accepts the massive imposition of immigration on Estonia, the same policy will be pursued as was the policy of the destruction of the Estonian people by Karl Vaino in its time. Do you want to go down in history as a person like Karl Vaino? Karl Vaino had at least the pretext that he was not Estonian. He wasn't chosen here. He was directed here. The main problem in addressing this issue is government trust credit. The fact that we are assured that Estonia does not agree with one thing or that the Estonian Government has not authorised one thing or another is as serious as the fact that the day before the elections is live is that VAT will not be changed. No one believes in the confirmation of the Reform Party Prime Minister or the Minister of the Interior that this or this will not happen. We just don't believe. The problem is very simple. The people want clear confirmation that Estonia's interests are being defended. It does not require tolerance or I do not know what things were presented to us here, but it requires a backbone. There is a need for character and some conviction to know why there is politics at all, and what will result from this office, called the Prime Minister's office. To be honest, I want to admit that I do not believe that any of these qualities exist for our current Prime Minister. I do not trust him in defending the interests of the Estonian people in Brussels. By Wednesday, we have invited people to this house to express themselves clearly once again: the question is not whether we are taking 50, 500 or 5000, the question is that we are deciding this ourselves here in Estonia, on the basis of what our arguments are. And the arguments are yes and yes. It's not like we're just waving emotions. We know exactly what problems have been caused by mass immigration in the Netherlands, England, Sweden, Germany, France, Greece and Italy. Today, when we are talking about some sort of irritation or angry atmosphere in Estonia, the child is babbling compared to the low-level civil war situation that has existed in some countries, in some cities for years. Do we really want these problems in Estonia? The Estonian Conservative People's Party certainly does not want to. And I can predict that if the government continues to pursue the same squirming policy that we heard from this board today, then in the next government we can defend those positions that we have clearly expressed and we intend to make clear. Our immigration policy so far has served Estonia well; we do not need to change it. Surely we should not change that because of external pressure. We say clear and resolute 'no' to immigration from other parts of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U100	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Prime Minister! I would try to be balanced and not a priori condemn the Prime Minister for these problems, as one of the previous speakers did. The few positions that sounded here, first of all, Estonia does not support quotas, and, second, the reception of refugees must remain voluntary for the Member States, are reasonable in every way. We can only hope that the government will actually succeed in protecting them. And if it doesn't work, there's a reason to speak in more critical tones. But I will bring some aspects of the social response to this problem. In fact, last weekend I went to Viljandi with the tent of the Free Party, where a great crowd moved. Our aim was not to tell people what we were talking about, but to listen to what the people of Estonia had in their hearts. I have to admit that the issue of refugees is very acutely irritating and that is worrying. There are no doubt irrational exclamations that were referred to above, but such feelings must also be understood, for when people's pensions are small, when people do not have a job, they sense the problem of taking away some of the benefits from our own people and possible softness of our government. If this were our own government initiative, I'd say it's a PR disaster. However, in this case, the European Commission is behind this. I have the fear that all of this will increase xenophobia in our society rather than remove it. In this sense, one way or another, this is a rather counterproductive topic. It would be very naivistic to resolve it in a way that some journalists with little experience in life or representatives of refugee support organisations receiving their funding from European Union funds to speak only of solidarity. I agree that there is also a need to talk about solidarity, but the adoption of everything, and so easily, is not understandable. This ends not only in the failure of our ability to receive refugees in such numbers, but above all in the fact that Estonian society is divided and we are unable to patch up this gap here. And the power of extremism only grows. I really hope, Mr Prime Minister and, above all, the Minister for the Interior, who should represent us on 16 June, that you will be able to stand up for Estonia's interests here effectively. And for all those who are very upset about unfair quotas, we want to say that the slogan 'No to refugees! ' is not good, but the slogan 'No quotas! ' is certainly appropriate and adequate and we should support that. It is also appropriate to refer to the fact that immigration problems in Estonia are already very acutely affected by Soviet times; our society has not really overcome this shock. It cannot be that this problem is a history so distant for our European partners that we cannot talk about it. When the Prime Minister said that the limit proposed by the European Commission is eight to nine times that which would suit us on the basis of objective criteria, we really hope that we will succeed in defending this position. Finally, I cannot fail to comment here either that, in previous times, the members of the Riigikogu have raised the question about the victims of Camp Ashraf, about bringing them to hospital in Estonia or about inviting Alla Dudayeva to Estonia, then the Estonian Government has always said a very sharp 'no'. Perhaps this is where we should think that we have done too rigidly in the past, and what is being imposed on us now is, in turn, unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U101	Would the Prime Minister like to perform? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U102	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! I have followed the debates on the same subject in the Scandinavian press and I have also met some interesting foreign Estonians, who were very interesting to note that when it was said at first that Estonia should not accept refugees, then later, naming the word Geislingen, they said: 'Yes, our history speaks in favour of our solidarity. ' But interesting is another motive that you almost connected to. In your report, the answer was a very sympathetic note. You said that Estonia would rather contribute money than with refugee camps. The Nordic press is talking about a phenomenon that has almost become real, namely that it is possible to create camps with the participation of the Scandinavian countries in a much more favourable climate for refugees in Africa. But in order to talk about it, there must be an initiative. Has anything been said about using money on the African continent?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U104	Thank you. Yes, as has been said, the underlying cause of this problem is much deeper than what we have dealt with most in the eyes of the Estonian public. Much of the solution to this problem is actually linked to solving the problem on the ground. In itself, even the creation of camps, such as in North Africa, is not yet solving the problem. It's a step closer to it, but it doesn't really solve the problem. I very much liked an example of a common agricultural policy. I think it was the President of the Republic who brought it. I hope I'm not quoting wrong now. In any case, it went through a public discussion, and it seemed to me to be a very sympathetic idea. Indeed, the European Union, with its common agricultural policy, supports, at all costs, that the European market be closed to North African goods, plus, for example, Spanish farmers in order to make Spanish tomatoes more competitive on the market, provides for restrictions on North African tomatoes or other fruits in order to prevent them from entering the European market. At the same time, it actually deprives North Africa of considerable income, the other way around, also of cheaper and better-quality goods for consumers, because market intervention completely confuses cards. But to come to the heart of your question, it is difficult to predict exactly where we are going with these debates at the Council. It is possible that there will also be some initiative on how to give more financial support to camps. However, I would point out that we would prefer that we do not create camps for people who could be accepted in Estonia. Rather, it should be possible to take so few people that they can be actually integrated into society, so that people of working age actually go to work. The goal should not be for them to live in isolation somewhere for the rest of their lives. This is not a human way, and that is not what we really want.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U105	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U106	Thank you. Prime Minister! I find it ill to hear the talk of solidarity, tolerance and equality, while an Estonian farmer receives a third of the support received by a Belgian farmer, while an Estonian pensioner receives twice as much pension as an Italian pensioner, while we have 40,000 starving children. Great solidarity, nice listening! But let's get down to business. The current issue of refugees is the complete twisting of words and demagogy. There is no point in talking about refugees if we do not have any control over who comes from there by boat, to whom the Italian Coast Guard goes to the other shore. We have no control over what origin they are. They don't have documents, but we're talking about a refugee in war. I understand that the current government has no courage and no backbone to say directly what is best for Estonia and to stand up for its own interests. But do you personally have the courage to come out and explain exactly what you're talking about right now in front of the people at 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday night when there's a demonstration at Toompea?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U107	Thank you. On Wednesday night at 6 p.m., I will attend the European Union summit in Brussels and, unfortunately, there cannot be in Estonia. I can't agree with what you're saying that there's no way to check the background of these people. When granting refugee status, serious work is being done to check people's backgrounds and to determine whether people actually need refugee status, whether their lives in their home country are at risk, what consequences they might have when they turn to their home country. You say it's bad for you to listen to the talk of solidarity. Your choice. For very many, it is certainly a bad thing to listen to such flashes of thought, which show Estonia as a closed, untolerant, hate-breathing state. Everyone has a view of things, and hopefully everyone has enough respect to understand the views of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U108	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U109	The authors of the next inquiry are Kadri Simson, Märts Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Reps. On behalf of the heirs, Kadri Simson is now presenting to us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U110	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu and Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, 22 members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry to the Prime Minister about state bonds. It is recalled that the European Central Bank has launched s. a from 9 March to the euro area public sector purchase programme in which the euro area national central banks buy bonds for EUR 1.1 trillion until September of the following year. Estonia also made its first purchase on 9 March, the first day: bonds were purchased for 10 million euros. These purchases will be continued in such a way that every month Estonia will be able to fill its prescribed volume, which is EUR 100-120 million per month. At least until September next year, all euro area central banks will spend €60 billion per month on the purchase of bonds. In doing so, central banks can buy euro area government bonds with a maturity of 20 to 30 years and they can buy them on the secondary market. The aim is for some inflation to be created in the euro area. But even more importantly, when purchasing secondary bonds, money is pumped into the economies of the euro area countries, which ensures economic growth in these countries. Now we're getting to the problem. As we know, there are no bonds in Estonia that Eesti Pank could buy. Therefore, Eesti Pank must participate in the process as a buyer, but it will channel these millions of euros into the economies of other countries, because only bonds from other countries can be purchased. There is also a situation in which the Estonian state will not issue bonds itself. When we handed this question over a month ago, it was clear that Eesti Pank was looking for opportunities. The Prime Minister can probably already come up with ideas when answering questions about how Eesti Pank can also provide some support to the Estonian economy. However, since there will be no significant increase in investment capacity in Estonia in the coming years, the opportunities for the euro area's economic recovery project in our favour must certainly be sought more forcefully. Economic professors Rainer Kattel and Raul Eamets have pointed this out, who have found that in the current situation Estonia should definitely consider issuing bonds. Swedbank's private banking investment manager Tarmo Tanilas has assessed that Estonia is already asleep. The European Central Bank has issued a financial instrument to boost the economy, but we are not taking part again. The fact that Estonia is not indebted is a dogma of recent times. In 2001, Siim Kallas, Minister of Finance of the Reform Party, proposed that Estonia could issue 100 million euros of bonds, including financing the purchase of the radar system. Siim Kallas said at the time: 'The bond and bond issue are one of the most popular borrowing instruments in the world and it is constantly evolving. It also assesses the country's economic situation and its credibility. Estonia has always lacked this instrument. This, too, is one of the reasons why it has been discussed for a long time whether a sovereign bond should not be issued, which would also be an indicator of a certain direction. " The thought of the day remained an intellectually interesting discussion. In the future, the government has found simpler ways and has not stimulated the economy in the years of the severe crisis, but now that the European Central Bank has initiated this purchase programme, it is likely that Estonia should also discuss this issue more. We have therefore asked the Prime Minister four questions that I am not going to read in terms of time savings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U111	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will respond to your inquiry on 4 May for state bonds. The first question: 'What is your view of state bonds and, in the current situation, could the state consider issuing state bonds? " There are many countries in the world that use bonds to manage their debt portfolios. It is practical to issue debt securities when the debt portfolio is very large when foreign funds are required to refinance large amounts of existing debt and to cover the deficit of the state budget. For example, Latvia's central government's debt portfolio is over EUR 8 billion, Lithuania's debt portfolio is over EUR 10 billion and Finland's debt portfolio is over EUR 95 billion. The debt portfolio of the Estonian Treasury is 525 million euros. It consists of one long-term loan taken from the European Investment Bank. The need for sovereign debt depends on the fiscal policy of the country. The Treasury can decide, whenever a deficit needs to be covered, whether to borrow or issue bonds, and if the budget is in surplus, it can decide whether to pay back the loans taken or to hold them in reserves. I cannot agree in any way with the assessment that debt-taking is unambiguously about pumping money into the economy. Even the most advantageous loan must always be repaid. There are clear rules of logic as to why Estonia has not only recently, but already over 15 years of policy that we do not bequeath our obligations to future generations. So do I now. The current government has decided to pursue this conservative fiscal policy for more than 15 years. This ensures Estonia's long-term economic and financial sustainability. We have foreseen in the country's budgetary strategy for the years 2016 to 2019 that in the coming years, there will be no need for additional sources of government cash flow management either in the form of long-term loans or new debt securities issued. We keep the state's finances in order and we don't need foreign money to make it. In the coming years, the government debt ratio will rather decrease. If, for any reason, it should be necessary in the future to take up debt to finance the cash-flow deficit, the Ministry of Finance will be able to consider borrowing, the use of reserves and the issuance of bonds for this purpose. The second question: 'Your party's representatives have previously supported the financing of major projects with the help of bonds. Is and for which projects do you consider the issue of bonds to be an option? " As in the calculation of the position of the state budget, which takes into account all the revenue, expenditure and investments of the state as a whole, the management of the state budget's cash flow is also planned as a whole. The money from public revenue, such as taxes, subsidies and the sale of assets, covers expenditures, i.e. costs and investments. It is not appropriate for the State to take additional loans to finance investment projects if it is already taken into account in the preparation of the state budget that revenue and subsidies from the state budget cover both costs and investments. Looking more broadly at public investment, we should also take into account state-owned companies. In addition to public investments financed from the state budget, several companies also make very significant investments in the state. The total debt liabilities of companies and foundations amounted to EUR 3 billion at the end of last year, of which sovereign debt liabilities amounted to EUR 1 billion and corporate and foundation liabilities to EUR 2 billion. Of this EUR 2 billion debt, bonds in turn account for 1 billion. From state companies, bonds have been issued by Eesti Energia (700 million euros), Elering (225 million euros) and, in previous years, Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Question 3: 'What do you think of Siim Kallas' idea that the bonds issued would provide one indicator to measure the state of the Estonian economy? " Public bonds can act as an indicator of the state of the economy if the state has issued a number of high-issue bonds that allow the bond investor to actively trade with them. In international financial markets, the volume of liquid bond issuance is estimated at EUR 1 billion. In order to be able to use the bonds issued by the Estonian state as an indicator of fair risk, the state should issue large amounts of bonds on a regular basis. If the issue of a single bond remains small and the bond investors do not have the certainty that new issues will be added, the bonds sold will remain in the portfolios of buy-and-hold investors until the bonds are redeemed. In this case, the bonds issued are not actively traded, do not have a market price and could not be used as an indicator of the debt price of the Estonian state. In financial markets, credit ratings are one of the most common indicators for assessing the state of national economies and financial strength. Credit default swap rates, or credit default swap rates, can also be used to assess the risk of the state and to compare it with other countries, which are also quoted for Estonian risk, even though we do not have any bonds. Macroeconomic indicators are mainly used to assess and forecast national economies. Therefore, the lack of our bonds is certainly no obstacle to measuring the state's economic position. The fact that we do not have bonds, our debt burden is low and the budget is balanced is a much better indicator and shows a better state of our economy than, for example, the rate of interest or cost of the bond. Question 4: 'The state currently invests mainly with euro money. However, after the end of this budget period, we will see that we can lose euro money in the future and that the country will then have to manage as far as possible. In view of the longer term, do you think that, after the disappearance of euro money, national bonds as a single financial instrument could be an option? ' It is very early to speculate on whether and to what extent Estonia would be able to obtain funds from the European Union's Structural Funds after the period ending in 2020. At the same time, when drawing up and adopting annual budgets, we must also be guided by the basic law on the state budget, which lays down the rules for the budgetary position of the general government. In the event that debt liabilities need to be committed in the future to manage the cash flow of the state budget, the Ministry of Finance can consider whether it would be more appropriate to issue bonds or to take out loans for the management of total costs and financial risks. But I stress once again that the government that I manage is planning to keep the Estonian state's finances in order and not to increase Estonia's debt burden, not with long-term loans or bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U113	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have a question that may be a little far from this subject, but it still concerns it. The question is a little personal. Have you used the bank service, i.e. has your family taken a loan from the bank? If so, tell us why it's okay for your family to borrow for the household, but it's not very okay to borrow for the country's household.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U115	Thank you. Yeah, I've taken out a loan to buy a home for my family. I have taken a loan before to support my loved ones in acquiring housing. Since I have had no choice but to acquire housing myself, borrowing has been a logical solution. However, I do not consider it reasonable for the state to borrow to cover annual or current expenditure. This could be compared to either expensive consumer loans or even SMS loans. I think that private individuals would also have reason to consider whether such a loan still needs to be taken. Acquiring housing is a completely necessary investment for which most of us cannot set aside money from current income. In order to increase monthly spending by borrowing, it seems at the beginning that the economy is getting worse, that more can be spent every month, but then there will be a painful moment when it comes to paying back the loan. It is once again a cooling of the economy by using the words of your groupmates. In addition, I consider it very important that the national purse be treated at least as responsibly as its own purse, rather than even more responsibly. If the Prime Minister, as a private individual, can sometimes afford to have some kind of affection that has been made with emotion, perhaps even irrational, then as Prime Minister for state money, I would certainly not do so. Public expenditure must be fully weighed ten times and there must also be a very, very good reason for borrowing into the country. It's just that I think it's stupid for a country to commit to some kind of indicator somewhere in a table.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U116	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You can only take out a loan if you have a firm idea and vision and at the same time a firm technology for how to repay the loan. The calculation of the repayment of the loan shall begin as soon as the loan has been taken. It's a normal vision and it's normal doing. To pay the running costs, as you mentioned, it's stupid to take a loan, that's stupid. But now I'm asking a question. Since you do not want to borrow so badly, do you not have the payback technology or do you not have the vision that the Estonian state should receive?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U118	Thank you. I've been talking about the vision very thoroughly. The vision of where Estonia should be, I and the whole government, are quite sure to have it. But this vision does not require a sudden increase in the debt burden. To say that the only way to succeed economically is to do it with a loan is certainly shortsighted. If there are investments that we cannot make for European Union money or the tax revenue that the country is currently receiving, then in theory borrowing may be considered. The issue of bonds may also be considered, but there must be a very good reason why this instrument should be used. So far, we have managed the Estonian state in such a way that all important investments have been made either with the support of European Union funds or with our own tax revenues. We have done well and we have not had to worry about how much debt we owe to our future generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U119	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! A little while ago, I was startled by how well you kept a secret. You spoke resolutely about what some countries are doing and what some countries are not doing. We were talking about who issues bonds or who buys them. There was always talk about the fact that some countries and then some countries again. I've thought about it now. At first, I thought you just didn't know where to name a country. But maybe there's another reason. Maybe the Prime Minister can't say anything about any country, because then we're about to have diplomatic misconceptions. Which version is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U121	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The Prime Minister tried to talk black white or vice versa. The Prime Minister says our public finances are in order. In fact, public finances that adopt a negative annual budget are not in order. This year's state budget is down. This means that costs are more than revenues, the circa 100 million euros. Now, speaking of the whole country's debt burden, it is EUR 1.8 billion. Within a year, the circuit grew by 1 billion. It also includes a guarantee on Greek bonds, which is reflected in the liabilities. It's a circa 475 million. There's something I don't understand. The Prime Minister has a special understanding of the economy. When it comes to central government, borrowing is a sin and a bad thing, but at the end of May, the Prime Minister gave the five institutions special permission to increase the net debt burden in excess of what was promised. The biggest debt burden is eight times as much as legally permitted. Elron's net debt is 335%, or more than eight times the permissible rate, compared to income. But Elron belongs to the state, and Eesti Energia belongs to the state. If Elron and Eesti Energia were to borrow, the Prime Minister felt that economic theory or economic principles would have a different meaning. No, it doesn't. It means exactly the same. It is not a sin to borrow for investments. For example, if the state were to borrow for the energy economy or for the heat economy, where, for example, the heat loss is 30%, and this investment would result in a 5% reduction in heat losses and 5% a loan would be served, then we would have actually won. Examples include road construction. Perhaps someone will remember these times when it was said that the road to Tallinn would cost 3 billion. But it was in the crowns. Dear Juhan Parts and I think the Minister of Finance Ivari Padar walked somewhere between the swamps and said that this would be the price if we were to build the road in Tallinn. If it had been built, we would have been great winners in financial terms and also saved in terms of human lives. In addition, investments would have reached South-East Estonia and South-Estonia. One of the last news I have read today is that the city of Tartu has lost about 4,000 taxpayers and less than 6 million euros a year in Tartu's budget. I think this is the result of all the omissions. In time, the right decisions were not made or invested where investment would have been needed. To talk about spending only what we earn, and with it we can build up the state and make investments, is not right. Let me give you a concrete example. Latvia and Lithuania, in a sense, are borrowing for investments. The fact is that in the last five years, growth in Latvia and Lithuania has been twice as fast as in Estonia. The European Commission is forecasting faster growth for Latvia and Lithuania in the future. Have they been wrong and we've done the right thing? Borrowing for investment is right if it is done for the right purposes. Of course, loans must not be taken to cover current expenditure, but in my opinion the stupidest and most short-sighted step is what the Estonian Government is trying to do now, reviving the economy with tax increases. This has not succeeded anywhere in the world, and I do not think it will succeed in Estonia either. That doesn't bring any of the revenue promised to the state budget. It simply destroys the Estonian economy and takes business and money out of the country. The fact is, it's going to be refueled in Lithuania. The number of tourists has already fallen by 9% over the year. So tax increases cannot boost the economy. I do not think we are smarter than the other countries of the European Union, which have set themselves the goal, precisely by means of additional money, of revitalising the economy. I do not believe that we are an exceptional country in the European Union, and the rest are all stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U122	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. Let's hope our information system is working.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U123	Thank you. Good fellows! Since our e-Governance has run a little short, I ask if anyone has put themselves in line. Please raise your hand! No, it's not. Then I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered. Now I'm taking a break to get our computer program back online. Director's break is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U124	Questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U125	Thank you. You called them eight years of stagnation. We cannot agree with that at all, because in these years, there has been one of the worst economic recessions in Estonia's history as well as an economic growth of about 11%. It is only possible to call it stationary if the nose is not raised above the paperwork at all. In any case, there have been very different times in the economy, there has been both a decline and a considerable increase. But all this time Estonia has been, as a percentage of GDP, one of the countries that invested most in the economy throughout Europe. In some years, we even came first. Part of this investment has been European Union funds, but even without European Union funds, Estonia has been one of the most invested countries. One of the highest percentages of the Estonian budget is going to be invested across Europe, largely because we do not have a percentage of old debt repayments at all. This will help us to contribute more to other expenditures. The question was whether we could still borrow to boost the economy. The assumption should be that this loan really will boost the economy, and the so-called recovery is worth later cooling, which will inevitably occur when this loan has to be repaid. It is not possible to revive the free economy in this way; each loan must be repaid once. If this investment is so good that it generates a return that is more valuable than any subsequent repayment, then of course it can be considered. Why would I deny it? But the construction of this infrastructure site should still be thought through ten times and it must be assured that it will not be on the necks of future generations, but that it will generate real benefits. It must be said that those countries that have lived in budget deficits for years are in a worse position than Estonia, which has not done so. That is why I believe in the general principle that a balanced budget is very important. Borrowing is certainly not excluded, but it should happen when there is some very good reason for an investment that cannot be financed in any other way than by a loan and no money can be foreseen in the budget, and the revenue from this investment must firmly outweigh the economic cooling that comes from the repayment of the loan. That must be taken into account. If such a potential investment arises, this point certainly cannot be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U126	Thank you. For three months, Eesti Pank has bought bonds; for 15 months, it will buy more. In March Eesti Pank bought bonds for 117 million euros, in April for nearly 119 million euros, in May for 129.8 million euros. Your reply gave the impression that you are almost proud that Eesti Pank cannot buy Estonian bonds and strengthens the economies of other countries. There was such a pity that the countries whose bonds we are buying and whose economies we are reviving have gone badly. Can you name the countries whose bonds Eesti Pank dares to buy? Then we would know who the unfortunate countries that have gone so badly are.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U127	Thank you. Eesti Pank is an independent institution. They may be able to comment on whose bonds and how much they have bought. This starting point, in my opinion, that the loan strengthens the economy or that the deficit is an economic recovery, is a relatively skewed one. A large part of Europe is currently in a very poor position because previous governments have been careful to use your expressions to revive or strengthen the economy, i.e. living debts. Living in debt is no strengthening of the economy; living in debt is living in debt. Even the cheapest loans must be repaid. So if the Estonian state does not need to take debt, even from its central bank or from someone else, it is a positive phenomenon, because we come to an end, do not bequeath our children to a state in debt, and we can count on all the tax revenue that the Estonian state collects going to the Estonian state to make important expenditures. In many countries in Europe and in other parts of the world, a very significant proportion of the budget revenue goes to service past commitments, i.e. interest payments and repayments of old loans. We have no such obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U128	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U129	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! First, I will correct your mistakes. Our state budget has not been balanced for at least the last five years. Why don't you get to know the subject? This year, too, we are about 100 million in minus, nominal balance. Secondly, the public debt is not about EUR 500 million, but EUR 1.8 billion. It grew by about a billion in a year. Of this, the circa quarter, or EUR 475 million, represents a commitment to the Greek State. But Estonia is an exceptional country at all. I do not know whether there should be any banks in Estonia and why these banks are over-serving entrepreneurship. But I am reading today's news that the Prime Minister has allowed five state-owned companies to increase their loan burden. For example, Elron's loan burden is eight times higher than would actually have been allowed, i.e. 335%. What kind of policy are you really talking about? You don't understand the policy you're making. You allow companies to take out loans, which is not a state obligation and a loan, but you do not allow the state to take out loans to boost entrepreneurship or save somewhere. What kind of policy are you really running?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U130	Thank you. If someone is bothering to correct mistakes, it would be nice if they were correct. You've made it a lot more complicated. I would argue that you have misled yourself by these so-called corrections. Let us first take the budgets of recent years. Last year, we know, the budget surplus was 0.6% of GDP. Yeah, well, if you take it really hard, it's not a balance, it's a surplus. But I think it would be stellar if a budget with a surplus was not balanced in the context of fiscal policy. We certainly did not have to raise the loan due to last year, more money was received than was spent. The EUR 525 million I have pointed out is a loan from the central government taken from the European Investment Bank. If all municipalities are taken over by Estonia, all government actors, this amount is definitely higher, but these are other indicators. We are talking specifically about the budgetary policy of the Government of the Republic, the commitments made at various times by the Government of the Republic. This exact amount, as I said, is EUR 525 million. Your claim that the Estonian state has obligations to Greece is also misleading. As far as state-owned companies are concerned, a number of them have invested with either loans or bonds. I do not see anything deplorable about this, because these investments have a specific objective of recovering, which is also set out in the business plans. If the business plan matches, the Ministry of Finance or the Government has granted permission to borrow or issue bonds. As has been said, the biggest issuer of bonds has been Eesti Energia, who has made very large investments. The next place is Elering, who has contributed to the quality of the electricity transmission systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U131	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You love to repeat the mantra that we will not bequeath our debts to future generations. At the same time, investments are often made either through loans or bonds. In fact, the economic growth of Estonia has been stagnating for the last eight years. It seems to me that, therefore, we are not indebted to our children, but we are inheriting undeveloped infrastructure and unexploited opportunities. Shouldn't we consider borrowing, though? This loan could be used to stimulate growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U133	Thank you. That's a good question. Makes you feel better. It's not a very big secret. For example, Eurostat's website can be taken apart, and you can see exactly how much the European country has borrowed. We know that the first place there is still a good old acquaintance of Greece. They now also have very serious problems with the repayment of loans. This is not a fate to be envied. We know that there are also a number of major countries at the top, including Italy. France's debt is also very considerable. There are also a number of smaller countries. Generally speaking, the European Union's debt burden is over 86% and the euro area debt burden is over 90%, but I am not happy about it. This clearly hampers the prospects for future economic growth in most countries, and if the opportunities for growth in the euro area or, more broadly, in the European Union are hampered, as sad as it may be, it will also affect us. Although we have done very well ourselves, we have avoided the debt burden and our economic growth can be somewhat faster than those countries, it will also limit our growth if our partners do not do well. These countries are not difficult to name. It's just such a painful subject. These countries themselves are not very happy that so much credit was taken in their own time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U134	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U135	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'll give you an example. I've been the mayor of Paide. Paide took a loan of EUR 2,2 million in 2007. We reconstructed 11 kilometers of roads and streets. In 2012, we received EUR 700000 of state support and reconstructed nearly 1 km for it. The reconstruction of roads has gone 4 to 5 times more expensive. We should stand firm for the situation of roads and streets, even for the construction of the same Tallinn road to the end of Tartu. Is it your view that we collect money for the reconstruction of roads, or are we gradually doing these works every year, despite the fact that prices are increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U136	Thank you. That is a perfectly reasonable and rational question. If we knew in advance exactly what the costs would be for one or another major investment or the price of a significant investment in a few years' time, and if we could definitely say this, we could, of course, very accurately consider alternative sources of financing. I've been looking into whether it would be possible to build Tallinn with one crap on the Tartu highway very quickly. Unfortunately, that is not the case. There are other restrictions. Today, not so much the volume of the state budget has been a restrictive factor, but the fact that we have not completed the preliminary work on several sections, be they projects or other work. Consideration should also be given to the potential capacity of potential contractual partners. For example, if Estonia were to target a road construction budget for the whole year, or even a few years, with one crap, it could cause very serious problems. I've been told by the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that it's not done with one crap when you take out a loan, either. In the principle, I do not rule out the possibility of borrowing short-term or long-term loans for the construction of any object, but if we look at the overall picture and the public expenditure as a whole, I think it is reasonable to keep balance and not spend more than we actually make every year as a general principle. Once again, this does not preclude the loan of individual items. After all, the Estonian state, both as a state and through several companies, has financed specific items with loans or bonds, but this has never been an end in itself. Rather, a pragmatic choice has always been made as to how one thing or another would be the most favorable and most sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U137	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U138	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! The law of our home and work arrangements is that one person cannot ask two questions in the round of inquiries. My penguin's in trouble. I'll try to repeat his question. Can you tell us which countries' bonds have been bought by Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U139	Thank you. It's a very generous thing to do, good George, for you to support Kadri in this way. I really appreciate that. It's worth admiring. I have to admit that I have not been interested in the countries in which Eesti Pank has recently acquired the bonds. I dare say that this is public information, and at least you members of the Riigikogu will be able to find out from the heads of Eesti Pank. As Eesti Pank is independent of the government, the government has no opportunity to share what kind of bonds Eesti Pank should buy. However, as far as I know, Eesti Pank has already purchased bonds from one company belonging to the Estonian state. So there are precedents. Under the control of the Estonian Government, if you could say so, there is a stabilisation reserve whose funds are also purchased from different countries' bonds. They have mostly been historically high-rated bonds from European Union countries. We have also had bonds from countries that have had a very large debt burden in the portfolio, but for the past four to five years, the central government of Estonia has rather placed its stabilisation reserve, I dare say, in bonds from very safe countries. However, this report has also been submitted to Parliament and it is certainly possible to get an overview of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U140	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U141	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I listened with interest to your answers, and I also had a question. Each local government manager sets himself the goal of achieving something, building something big and powerful, so that people would not say that after you see it, it was the local government leader, but nothing was built in his time. Of course, these things that are linked to the debt burden are holding back from all kinds of papers I'm not talking about. I have this philosophical question. Does our Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas, want to build something big so that future generations can say that, you see, it was built during the Clothes?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U142	Thank you. That's a very good question. I really like these questions. I've been a mayor too, not for a very long time, but still. At that time the decisions were made and the built objects were completed, which have been widely used to this day. Take the Rocca al Mare Beach Promenade, for example. But I certainly didn't do the construction of Rocca al Mare's beach promenade because I somehow wrote my humble identity into Haaberst's district history. I did it simply because it makes sense to me when people get to the sea, especially when the coastline is so long. In my office as Minister of Social Affairs, I also had the honour and opportunity to make quite a few decisions about the construction of specific objects, but even then I never thought that it had anything to do with my identity. These constructions were always based on a specific need, and Estonia has very much needed them. As Prime Minister, I have already needed to do so, and it will probably have to continue to make decisions about fundamental objects. As an example, I can hurriedly mention the objects that we have agreed on in the government and which are necessary to increase the presence of our NATO allies. If there will be facilities in Estonia that allow a significantly larger number of allies to remain permanently in Estonia than today, then these are undoubtedly historic buildings. But we don't need to borrow for that. Surely we are not building these buildings because either I, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser or someone else could somehow feel more important in history, but rather because we genuinely consider them necessary for Estonia and that is why we are making these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U143	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U144	We've come to the fourth question. This is presented by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Olga Ivanova, Jaanus Karilaid, Priit Toobal, Toomas Vitsut, Kadri Simson and Mailis Reps on 13 May 2015. The inquiry is about the statement by the Estonian Association of Family Doctors regarding the regulation "Modernization of Primary Health Centres." Reply by Rannar Vassilyev, Minister of Health and Labour. Please present the content of the questioning of the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The vice-president has now read the title of the inquiry and you can see the text for yourself; these pages are available. I'd like to make an introduction to the subject. The problem we're talking about here, I found out about last fall. I heard it from my family doctor. I began to study what other family doctors in Narva thought, and in February I attended an event where almost all of Narva's family doctors and two people from the Ministry of Social Affairs were present. This modernisation was specifically discussed there. Now, to explain what it is, here's what we're talking about. It was once said that a system based on family doctors, where each doctor has his own small office, his own opportunities, and all of them operate separately, is the most progressive, the best. We took the Swedish system as an example and started to build it. In time, family doctors have purchased rooms and obtained medical equipment. It hasn't been easy, it's all costing a lot. Last year it turned out that in some ways the Ministry of Social Affairs has received money from the European Union for setting up health centres. There is a separate question as to why money is being applied for against our family medical system. But now family doctors are being offered the opportunity to move to health centres. If I am not fooled by my memory, they will be built so that 75% of the money I hope I am not mistaken is paid by the state and 25% paid by family doctors. You can say that you sit in your seat and do not join these health centres, but it is not that easy. One concrete example. The family doctor has confirmed that if he starts any physical therapist procedures, they will be paid to him at the health insurance fund. To improve medical services, he takes credit and buys rooms, procures equipment and repairs. And maybe the health department will tell him he's not gonna pay for these procedures. He cannot sell his rooms because he has rebuilt them and there are no applicants who would like to rebuild them into an apartment, for example. We sit with family doctors and representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and we are told how wonderful it is when everything is back in kolkhoz with what savings and so on. But I can't get rid of the idea that we were just offered money, and then it was decided that it could destroy the current system to make use of it. Someone's gonna build and somebody's gonna make it, probably State Real Estate. What happens next, God knows. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors has issued a clear opinion on this reform, and that is what we are talking about. In terms of time savings, the minister may read these questions himself before he answers them. I hope, however, that the answers are clear enough. Until now, family doctors have no explanation as to how their future lives will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U146	Thank you. Good fellows! Now I invite the Minister of Health and Labour to the Riigikogu's speech chair. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U147	Good chairman, Vice-Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I shall respond briefly to the request for information. As Mikhail Stalnukhin asked, I will read the questions. If no one has an inquiry in front of the text, it is easier to follow. The first question: 'Do you agree with the statement of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors that the draft 'Modernization of Primary Health Centres' has not taken into account the patient's need for better access to high-quality first-level services, but the focus is on one surface concentrated in favour of unreasonably large service providers? " This argument cannot be accepted. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Several experts have pointed out that one of the greatest obstacles to the development of primary health care is a fragmented system of family doctors with too small a team. A recent assessment can be seen here from a study carried out by experts from the World Bank in cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs at the end of March, where the abovementioned weaknesses are clearly highlighted. The aim of this measure is to support the construction of primary health centres infrastructure in centres of attraction, ensuring a wide range of primary health services, improving access to them and thereby reducing health inequalities. It is worth noting that the development of health care in Estonia approved by the government until 2020 has been taken into account when developing the draft regulation. The sectoral objectives of primary health care are in line with the principles set out in the development plan for the field of family medicine until 2020, where family doctors have described primary health centres and the services they provide that meet the modern requirements. It is worth explaining here that the draft does not aim to favour unfairly large service providers, since the maximum financial limit for the application is taken into account in the light of the needs of 16 family doctors and the team working with them. In addition, I would point out that in larger centres where there are more family doctors, it is optimal to encourage the creation of eight or more health centres. For example, the construction of a health centre with nine lists would save against three health centres with three lists each, approximately 30% of the construction costs and also lower maintenance costs. Therefore, in view of both the construction costs and the subsequent maintenance costs of the building, the larger centres are overall significantly more cost-effective. This, in turn, will make it possible to ensure that infrastructure linked to a larger number of lists is modernised for the entire amount of aid. We have discussed this issue with the leaders of the major cities and, as a result, we believe that the largest primary centres are the most suitable in densely populated larger cities. We confirm that the aim of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to strengthen first-level teams and to give family doctors the opportunity to work alongside other primary service providers. The second question: 'How do you comment on the opinion of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors that the above-mentioned draft does not take into account the basics of the functioning of the Estonian health care system and the current legal space, including the principle of separation between primary and specialist care, the possible results of which have not been analysed? 'This draft regulation is in line with the basic principles of the functioning of the current health system and supports the principle of legal separation between general and specialist medical care. It is worth repeating here that the aim of this measure is primarily to support the development of a stronger first-level team, which will ensure a more patient-centred approach and better coordination of treatment between the different levels of the health care system, as well as coordination with the social system. Repeated discussions with representatives of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors have allowed the parties to discuss their views in a constructive working atmosphere, and the draft currently in the coordination circle takes into account most of the substantive proposals. As proposed, we have specified a list of eligible costs, given that the surface area of outpatient specialised medical care facilities may be up to 10% of the total space surface area. An example can also be the setting of a maximum rate for a single application in order to prevent the emergence of super-large centres. The third question: 'How do you comment on the statement that the draft ignores the developments of the Estonian health care system and the European primary health system in the last 30 years and the forecast for the future, trying to reconcile the system of public health clinics in the 1980s with the reanimation of disabling and infrastructural county hospitals in conditions where there has been no competent human resource for years, as well as the need for specialised medical care in near-home conditions? ' I hope that I have already given enough explanations in response to questions 1 and 2 to refute this claim. Let it be merely confirmed that the draft regulation aims to ensure accessible and diverse primary health services through the development of health centres infrastructure. Understandably, infrastructure alone is not enough to strengthen the primary level, and we therefore consider it important to develop the first-level financing model with other activities, including the development of legal space and cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund. In health management, we want to move towards a multifunctional model with the development of primary health centres, where family doctors work together with other primary care providers at the health centre. Planned activities will enable the primary health trends recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to achieve their objectives, improve primary infrastructure and expand patient-centred primary services. Finally, I note that these issues raised in January have, in the meantime, been subject to a thorough discussion. As already mentioned in the reply, a large number of proposals made by the Estonian Association of Family Doctors have been taken into account in the draft regulation currently in the coordination circle. Many of these proposals were undoubtedly very relevant and, consequently, the draft regulation has become much better in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U148	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm glad the Ministry is in contact with the family doctors, with their company. There is only one question that troubles me: why is it considered necessary after they have already protested? Why is it not possible to carry out all the coordination, to get the views of the parties involved together and to take them into account when a regulation or a project is being prepared? Who needs to piss people off all the time? Is there any way to change the working style so that it is human? Just talk to the specialist before you change his field. Do you think there's anything you can do to change that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U150	I think it's possible. Well, we'll try to get the coordination done sooner in the future. I am not exactly familiar with the history of this regulation. I don't know how and to what extent family doctors have been involved in January-February and before. But I do know that there have been many times not only family doctors' associations but also other parties who are in contact with the health centre project, sitting at the table in different circles and actively participating in the development of this regulation. Undoubtedly, it is not always possible to take into account 100% of the wishes of all parties, especially if they are contradictory to each other. Then inevitably, there must be some choice. But right now, it seems to me that, in the final phase, inclusion has been rather thorough, and I hope that this regulation will be good. And more importantly, that health centres that arise under this regulation will, both in form and in substance, be those that improve the entire family medical system or the general medical care system. The aim is even wider: better general medical care should reduce the need for specialised medical care, especially for people whose problems can be resolved at an earlier stage at an overall level. The Health Centres project should also contribute to enabling us to make more effective use of the resources of specialist medical care, including, hopefully, to shorten the waiting lists. There is undoubtedly one major and complex patchwork of problems involved in this task.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U151	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U152	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You mentioned a little while ago that experts believe that the fundamental flaw of our primary health system is that it is fragmented into small units with small teams. Now, to recall how this fragmentation occurred: it has been cultivated for 18 years, and in the past we had large centres of health in the centres of attraction. They were called health centres. Targeted to break them down, small units were created with family doctor lists and receptions. Are you telling me this was all wrong? Has 18 years been running in the wrong direction? And don't tell me these clinics were the invention of the consultative period and a very bad invention. Space rockets were invented in the Soviet Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U153	Thank you. Well, it's often that the new one is a well-forgotten old one. But I think that all changes must also be seen in the temporal context. There is nothing to do; the general medical care service has undoubtedly been influenced by the general population process, including relocation both inside Estonia and outside Estonia. There are certainly people in need of family doctor services, and their location in Estonia has changed greatly. The changes in the system must keep pace with time. So I don't want to say that the decisions of my time were wrong in that context. In Estonia, the family doctor system has its "gatekeeper" role, which, in itself, works well compared to things in many other countries. Of course, this can be improved and the way in which the number of people on the lists in the various regions changes certainly affects the decisions that need to be taken. And in the current context, it is indeed recommended that, at least in centres of attraction, such consolidation may take place in general medical care. This allows for a more universal service, allowing more concerns to be resolved without going to a specialist. It could also create a better perspective that if some doctors, for example, stop working because of their age, younger doctors will also agree to take part in family medicine outside Tallinn and Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U154	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, in a larger health centre you may be able to provide better care, but the fact is that the first-level service is distanced from people. The distances are simply increasing in tens of kilometres, and therefore such medical care certainly cannot be the best. As head of the municipality, I also know that the vast majority of family doctors are unable to contribute large sums of money to the creation of a family doctor's centre and this obligation goes to the municipalities. Value added tax (VAT) is not eligible in such a case, so that the own contribution would exceed 30%. However, if the family doctor's centre is unable to provide the required personnel, doctors and nurses, the funds will be recovered from the municipality. Is it not, after all, the transfer of the state's task to the municipalities of medicine...?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U156	Time's up. Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U157	No state task is transferred to the municipalities. No one has any obligation to join this project or to apply for money, rather it is an opportunity. As regards eligibility, value added tax (VAT) is eligible if no deduction or refund of input tax is used. So, in this context, VAT can be included in eligible costs. Health services are not subject to VAT, so the problem of input tax should not arise either. As regards whether or not the service is distanced from the person, the minimum requirement for a list of eight family doctors at the health centre is only in larger cities. From Jõhvi, Viljandi and Rakvere, for example, three family doctors are enough to set up a health centre. In addition, it is possible to establish branches of a health centre for those areas where three family doctors in one health centre may be a major, if not impossible, challenge. The family doctor who joined the family doctor's centre would work there, whose reception is located outside the health centre and perhaps in another municipality. This should ensure that, even in regions or municipalities with one or two family doctors, it is possible to participate in the health centre project and to improve their infrastructure and improve the quality of medical care, for example, in cooperation with family doctors from neighbouring municipalities or cities. So we have approached the project quite flexibly, both in terms of size requirements and in terms of who can apply for money. The local government can also apply, as well as hospitals and, of course, family doctors themselves. We have tried to keep the number of applicants as wide as possible, because the plan is to set up a minimum of 35 health centres, but hopefully their number will be much higher. The picture across Estonia is quite different. That is why we have tried to set as little restrictions as possible so that these euro funds can be supported in different formats.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U158	Now, Minister, there are no more questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U159	Let's move on to the fifth question. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair! The inquiry is numbered 7 and the issue is the problems with the reorganisation of the Narva Children's Home. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U160	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! At the end of April, the deputy mayor of Narva, Mrs Patsanovskaya, approached me and had a lot of problems with the new orphanage. Problem 1: The deadline was not respected, and the completion of the construction shifted from 1 April to May, then to June, and then it was already discussed at the end of the summer. It is now the case that on 19 June we are going to open the orphanage solemnly, so measures were taken that speeded up the work. Problem 2: There was no adherence to the project. Confirmed was, yes, the black color with which the orphanage's three houses were painted, but the project provided that there would also be colored elements, greens, oranges, yellows, etc. In the meantime, it was said that you had enough black paint, no other color wanted to be used, it's being dealt with. The problem was also that they did not want to employ people who had worked with Narva's children so far, strangely speaking, it was difficult to sign a contract with them. This problem has been solved and there are agreements. The problem with furniture was also said that maybe you couldn't get the furniture until the end of the summer and maybe the city was rich enough to buy the furniture itself. Now this problem is solved, too. The problem was that the buildings were required to be adopted without the interior finishing being completed. There's no more pressure. I think I forgot something else. Oh, yes, as the time for adoption moved on, it was as if the children had nowhere to be. They didn't want to authorise the use of the old building. But this problem has also been solved. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs met with the government in Narva to solve all these problems. The name of the minister, my name and this question were mentioned. I am immensely pleased that I see the contribution of the Minister for Social Protection in this, that they really started working and that this very necessary item will be ready in a few weeks' time and everything will be fine. I've never seen such a thing in this Chamber, and I've never done it before, but I want to thank the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna. I think the people who boycotted the construction of an orphanage in Narva finally started working only on his drive. And since I have seven consents from 13 signatories, I will withdraw this question and say that yes, of course we have to criticise here, but there could also be the will to thank perhaps more courage than the Minister has done well. And right now, I thank him. But the people of Narva have now become so optimistic that they think that the minister might even help solve the finishing problems. I've been sent a picture that shows horrible cracks in the floors. I'm not gonna show it, it's black and white, and it's pretty bad quality. Thank you, Margus!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U161	Thank you. And really, there's 13 signatures for questioning number seven, and if seven people are willing to take it back, there's more than half of them. The request has therefore been withdrawn and its reply falls off today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U162	We move on to the sixth question, which has been submitted by a number of members of the Riigikogu. The enquiry shall bear the number 4 and shall be made on 27 April 2015. The subject is the rise in excise fuel. The answer is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. I have the honour to ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Kadri Simson, to introduce the inquiry to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry, which was handed over on 27 April, has been signed by all members of the Central Party Group, i.e. 26 members of the Riigikogu. An inquiry has been made out of concern about the new coalition agreement, in which the raising of excise duties on fuel became one of the most important sources of fulfillment of promises. Today we handed over 27665 signatures to the Board of the Riigikogu from people who ask the Riigikogu not to raise excise duties on fuel. There is a very simple reason for this: an increase in excise duties on fuel will not only lead to an increase in prices for the transport sector and people using means of transport, but also to an overall increase in prices. In addition, no political party in the elections three months ago had the courage to tell the people that their electoral platform also foresees significant increases in excise duty. Nevertheless, we will discuss here in the Riigikogu the day after tomorrow a cluster bill, one point of which is planned to increase the excise duty on diesel by 14% in the following year and 10% in the two following years. Petrol duty is planned to increase by 10% each year. As a result, excise duty on diesel will rise by 51.7% by 2019 and excise duty on petrol will rise by 46.4%. Such an increase in prices or an increase in excise duties has led to an annoyance in society at large, with 27,665 signatures collected in a very short time. It is not only the citizens with their signatures that have signalled to the government that such a tax increase could be cancelled. The members of the Estonian Oil Association have made a joint appeal to the Government of the Republic, which expressed the view that the planned excessive increase in excise duties would lead to a decrease in consumption, on the one hand, and to the refueling of cars engaged in transit transport in Latvia, on the other. The company also estimates that the increase in taxes on fuel prices increases the share of the black market in the fuel business. The calculations show that the tax change will result in larger passenger cars with a 60 litre petrol tank costing only EUR 15 more in the form of national taxes. There is always a love to calculate the average consumer's costs. If one average consumer spends 840 litres of motor fuel per year, this means an annual cost of EUR 210 higher because of taxes alone. Large fuel dealers Olerex and Statoil have also warned that the change will increase the price of a litre to 1.6 or 1.7 euros in four years. For its part, Estonia can add taxes and we do not control world market prices. As a result, 26 members of the Riigikogu have four questions for the Minister of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U164	Thank you. Good fellows! Now we have the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. I ask you to answer the questioning of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I've been asked four questions about the increase in excise duties on fuel. At this point, we will review the questions, as well as the ensuing thoughts in the form of answers. First of all, 'Estonian Oil Association has said that by 2020 we will reach a situation where, in addition to going to work in Finland, the car will be refueled, as the fuel sold in Estonia will become the most expensive in the region. Has the government foreseen, in its plans, a general reduction in the amount of excise duties on fuel due to the future refueling in our neighbouring countries? ' The Finnish Government's plans to increase the excise duty on diesel and petrol in the coming years are currently unknown. However, it is unlikely that only Estonia from the countries of the European Union will increase the excise duty and others will not raise it. And even if the Finnish excise duty is not raised at all, petrol will remain cheaper in Estonia. Only diesel can then be marginally more expensive. Marginal differences in fuel prices do not lead to passenger fuel transport from other countries. Of course, we feel the risk that may arise if Latvia does not increase or marginally increase the excise duty on diesel and the price of crude oil increases considerably. In this case, the cheaper prices of southern neighbours may attract people from South Estonia to refuel in Latvia. If such a threat becomes significant, we must be prepared to review the national excise policy. One correction has already been made by the government in view of this risk. At the cabinet meeting on 7 May, the government decided to increase the excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel not in the next four years, but in the next three years. The second question: 'The increase in excise duties on fuel will, for example, lead to an increase in the price of all goods and services. The government's wallet gets hit. The state is doing quite a lot of social transport today. How much is the government planning to increase public transport subsidies by the state? " Looking at the entire Estonian economy as a whole, the impact of increasing excise duty on costs is rather modest, as the price of fuel represents less than 3% of the value of production on average. At the same time, we have sectors that are more or even more affected by the increase in excise duty, such as the transport of goods, where the share of fuel prices is 2.1%, as well as passenger transport and mineral extraction, where this share is 7.1%, and the construction material industry. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in order to compensate for the increase in excise duty on bus and coach routes, ticket revenues would need to be increased by 4 to 5% per year. At the same time, the picture is very different from one line to another and also from one country to another. The possible additional money to compensate for the increase in excise duty will be discussed in the 2016 state budget process. It is already known that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is applying for additional funding. The third question: 'The President of the Social Democratic Group of the Riigikogu, Andres Anvelt, has said that a new coalition agreement should also be made if the excise increase that caused much opposition is to be avoided. At the same time, SDE lines have just been heard complaining about the chosen source of cover. Have you spoken in the government about not raising excise duties on fuel, or are there plans to increase excise duty to a lesser extent? ' Raising fuel excise duty is a very important source of cover for a number of coalition promises aimed at improving people's lives and economic security. The changes planned for the implementation of the government union agreement shift the tax burden from labour to consumption together and allow several steps to alleviate the pains of life in Estonia. The government union will improve the livelihood of low-paid people, thus also boosting the labour market, lowering labour taxes and raising child benefits. And I repeat: at the cabinet meeting on 7 May, the government decided to increase the excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel not in the next four years, but in three years. Question 4: 'Different increases in excise duty usually also lead to an increase in the share of the black market. This means further work for the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. How have you planned to combat increasing tax fraud? ' The Tax and Customs Board has been allocated EUR 22 million for additional investments in 2016 and 2017 with a view to further enhancing its capacity to fight tax fraud and smuggling. With this money, it is planned to upgrade the scanning equipment and to acquire new ones. New automatic identification devices will also be acquired and IT investments will be made. In addition, the State plans to implement a number of measures in 2017 aimed at improving the competitive situation in the fuel market and increasing the VAT and excise duties on fuels. The focus of the measures is on a 24-hour electronic control system for liquid fuel purchase documents, which enables the operational monitoring of the flow of fuel released for consumption. In addition, additional requirements for fuel storage service providers, security for fuel importers etc. are foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U166	Minister, thank you. There are a few more questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When we closely followed the coalition negotiations, it was clear that you also agreed on an increase in excise duties on petrol and diesel. Now, however, coalition partners are looking at each other and it is not clear who actually agreed to this rise. It just kind of came by itself. You were at that table, too, did you want the price of petrol and diesel to rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U168	Thank you. This topic was discussed in a slight variation in the negotiations on a comprehensive tax package. We were then talking about lowering labour taxes and all the other positive factors that come with this particular draft. And as I told you at the time, this is a comprehensive view that the coalition has now brought to your table. This comprehensive view includes various tax policy changes, mainly in terms of reducing labour taxes, but also measures that must reduce consumption problems and pollution. There is no way you can put a single label on the whole package. This is a clear vision of the coalition of how the tax burden is passed on from labour to vice, pollution, consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U169	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U170	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Secretary of Finance! The whole issue goes back to the competitiveness of the countries and, as we know, the country of Lithuania has recently passed competitiveness from Estonia. One reason is that we have too high taxes. In addition, one Austrian professor estimates that the share of the shadow economy in Estonia is 25%. And you're still planning on raising fuel excise! It will not be comforting if you say that you will not raise it in 2019. You will increase 30% in 2016-2018. In line with the same logic, we can say that in 2015 and 2016 we will both increase 15% and in 2018 and 2019 we will not. You have promised, and the Prime Minister has promised that if Latvia does not raise excise duties, you will look at excise policy. Why haven't you done that already?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U171	Thank you. We are currently reviewing excise policy. As you will note, today's draft, which has passed your tables and first reading, reflects the basic principles of the review of excise policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U172	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! In the press, there are various forecasts of how increasing excise duties on fuel could affect food prices. I have heard very different predictions and, in this sense, I am very interested in your prediction of how much the price of the basket could rise because of the increase in excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U174	Thank you, good questioner. I would take a broader picture and talk not only about the impact of the increase in excise duties on the food basket, but about overall inflation. This gives us a real picture of how everything specifically affects our daily consumption. Let's face it, man doesn't just buy food, he also makes other payments in his daily activities. In order to understand the real impact of excise duties on petrol, I am telling you that inflation will increase by 0.15% in 2016. In addition, the effect of an increase in excise duty on diesel fuel will be added to this by 0.10%. As you know, the excise duty on special fuel oil and oil shale is also rising. So, overall, the impact of the increase in excise duties on various fuels on inflation will be 0.34% in 2016. In the coming years, 2017 and 2018, this impact will decrease. This is mainly due to the fact that, if the prices of diesel and petrol continue to rise in the coming years, oil shale and oil shale fuel oil prices will not rise; they will only rise next year. So in 2017 and 2018 we see an inflationary impact on the consumer price index of 0,25%.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U175	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will continue with the issue of Mr Reps. In the last few weeks, so many interviews have been heard and read, explaining how healing and positive all these measures, including raising excise duty, are, and how well we will do after they work. That it's such a noble and worthy act from you or someone else who proposed it. So why can't you just say the specific pretty boy name? Who did, however, propose, for example, an increase in the excise duty on diesel, which will enable us to experience so much good in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U177	Thank you. That's right! As you said, we can really experience a great deal of good. And as you yourself have observed, it is worth repeating what is good. In the coming years, we will see children's benefits rise, and the tax-free minimum is also rising, which has not been in place for many years. So, true story, we see quite a few good things. And one thing is clear: if the government coalition has agreed its visions for the coming years on what it wants to do, then there will be no one, another or third party policy. It is a common policy agreed between the government and for which the members of the government bear both positive and negative responsibilities. Looking at the current government agreement, I can say that more money will be available to people in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U178	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U179	Thank you, Minister of Finance. We understand that due to the rise in excise duties on fuel, the black market will be activated. I remember a couple of years ago there was a heading eastward, now things have calmed down a little bit, but now there's pressure coming from the south. I think it's better for people to drive there and refuel there. Has it been discussed at government level how you stand against the black market?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U180	Thank you. That's a good question, and I've answered it to some extent, but I'm going to go over it again. True, if a change in excise policy means an increase in excise duty, this could inevitably result in an increase in the black market, or the secret market. This is the case for any excise goods, whether they are fuel or tobacco or alcohol. If we are talking specifically about fuel, there will be a specific important measure in the near future, which the Tax and Customs Board has negotiated intensively with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Oil Association. In fact, the movement of liquid fuel throughout Estonia will be electronically monitored in the future. We hope that this opportunity will come to us in 2017 at the latest, but perhaps already in the second half of 2016. This clearly reduces the secret market and allows Estonian entrepreneurs to reduce the volume of reporting. There will then no longer be a need for different stock records, as the essence is to be seen electronically at all times when fuel arrives in storage. The Tax and Customs Board is able to have an overview of the stock situation in real time at all times. In addition, an important investment similar to that of the Tax and Customs Board will be possible, I dare say, has not been made in many years. In fact, the government coalition has agreed to channel an additional EUR 22 million into increasing the capacity of the Tax and Customs Board. This means both fixed and mobile devices that enable the goods to be illuminated and the identification of the number. I've spoken to the board of the Tax and Customs Board. They have said that if they develop this capacity, the secret market can be better controlled, at a different level. So things go hand in hand. If, on the one hand, there is a need for additional income for the state, on the other hand, there is a need for certain investments to do so. And in the state budget, these investments are foreseen in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U181	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U182	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Policy observers have noted that no coalition in Estonia has been going on for four years. If the current coalition falls apart, can we find out who was behind the idea of fuel excise rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U183	Thank you. There's no secret. Once again, all the different investments the country wants to make in implementing excise policy, including people, are a joint decision of the government and a responsibility of the government. This decision bears neither the mark of one person nor the mark of a party. Similarly, one might wonder whose decision is to increase excise duties on alcohol or tobacco. It's a joint decision. I have also said from this speaker that, when discussing excise alcohol policy, the Minister of Health and Labour expressed the opinion that we should increase the excise duty even more. This proposal, which is on the table today, provides too little. In summary, it was a joint decision of the Government to implement such an additional increase in excise duty as a result of excise policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U184	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U185	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You said it was a joint decision of the government, and it was a joint responsibility of the government. A little while ago, you mentioned something like political responsibility. To be honest, a simple Estonian person does not care who bears any political responsibility and how much. He is much more interested in the fact that he has to pay more for the fuel, whether it is necessary to fill his car's gas tank or to heat his home. And because of the 1% reduction in social tax, he doesn't care much. This is paid by the employer, not by a common man. Moreover, it is not quite clear how the sickness fund will be compensated for the money that is missing because of the reduction in social tax. But 27,000 signatures have been collected against tax increases. The Estonian people are not satisfied with this. Don't you think these government decisions undermine confidence in the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U186	Thank you. Surely people should also have been asked whether they would support an increase in the tax-free minimum in the coming years, i.e. 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Surely people should also have been asked whether they support further support for families with three children by the state. I should certainly have asked people whether they would support a reduction of 1% in social tax, which really leaves more money for entrepreneurs, but this gives them the opportunity to raise people's wages. I'm sure you'll have to look at all this in the complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U187	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U188	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Why not say specific names to the people? People want to know who made this up. So just to figure out how it all looks, I'm going to make this analogy. There are 50 states in the United States. If my memory isn't fooled, in 33 or 34, the death penalty has been banned long ago, but it's still being used in 16 or 17 states. In the old days, a particular executioner fell under fire. It was always known. But now there is a problem with that, right now there are human rights and things like that. How, then, do prisons where the death penalty is sometimes carried out do so? There are three buttons and three men and the prisoner they're about to kill. And three men at the same time push their own button and either the gas starts coming into the chamber or the electricity goes on or the poison starts flowing. No one knows who in three is the killer. There are three of them, and no one can say that this is the killer. In my opinion, all three of them are murderers in this situation. Now we're told it happened like this. That's about how it happened in Mr. Minister's version. There were three negotiators who represented three political parties. One took a stick, shouted, "One, two, three! ' and then all three said at the same time: 'We will increase the excise duty on diesel. ' Well, that's how it went. It's a simultaneous decision. Usually, if there's something you can praise yourself for and do it without fear, it's done. Everyone knows who in the old coalition has a parental salary in the form of how it applies, but it certainly doesn't get me started. You always know things like that. The authorship of bad things, however, is not to be acknowledged. Bad things are always the way we all decided together. But yes, absolutely right, no government coalition has lasted for four years. I think that since there was no such answer today, after a while the three parties will begin to confirm that we were not the decision-makers, they were the ones. In fact, all three of them are gonna talk about the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U189	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U190	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll fix one mistake first. All the time, it is stressed that the rise in child benefits is linked to an increase in excise duties on fuel. I'm sorry! What's the connection? If anyone could explain it to me, I'd get a lot smarter. There is absolutely no connection. This is one of the types of revenue of the state budget, and where this money ends up, it cannot be monitored. Imagine an increase in VAT on company cars, for example, as a source of child support. This year, a total of 47 million was planned, and in fact, 11 to 13 million will be received. The kids would have starved after that. Stop scaring the people like there's something to do with child support and fuel excise. It's such a stupid story that at least the Minister shouldn't say it. It is clear that the increase in excise duties on fuel will significantly reduce the competitiveness of our companies. Two sectors will be badly hit by this. One is the transport sector, because already at current diesel prices, most of the vehicles of South-East and South-Estonian transport companies are refueling in Latvia. And next year, if you increase the excise duty on diesel by 14%, that money will all stay in Latvia. The Latvian state will only win. There is perhaps one reason why Latvia's economic growth is greater than in Estonia. Another concern is that another axe is thrown into the back of farmers. In Latvia, the excise duty on the fuel used by farmers is zero, and our government raises this excise duty on fuel from 110 to 140 euros. Well, how is it possible to compete? We're so close neighbors, no way to compete! And the result is what has already happened: in our area, several farms take their milk to Latvia and when they come back, milk trucks refuel in Latvia. This is the reality of today. A few years ago, raw milk from Latvia and Lithuania was transferred to Latvia for EUR 71 million. These jobs and this money could have stayed in Estonia. It is clear that increasing excise duties on fuel will increase the price of all goods, as production is linked to transport in one way or another. And now I'm coming back to the children's allowance. They say families win because they grow up. I ask how families who live somewhere in scattered areas in South-East Estonia or South-Estonia win and who have to carry children to school or kindergarten every day and work far away. Where's that victory coming from? That's not really gonna happen! One hand will be given and the other hand will be taken. This is not the solution to the problem. And this step will certainly increase the shadow economy. As I said, a survey was recently carried out, according to which the share of the shadow economy in Estonia is about 25%. This study has been carried out by independent experts, not by our experts, and this must be believed. It's not a good thing. We do not live in North Korea, which is a closed country, and where taxes can be raised as they please. We have an open country with a competitive and open economy. If the steps of the neighbouring countries are not followed, yes, Latvians will be happy and the inhabitants of Northern Estonia will probably start refueling in Finland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U191	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, In a few words, I will comment on what you said as you approached things. I'd like to disprove something. First of all, everything needs to be viewed in a complex way. I have said this many times before, and I want to repeat it here. If you look at what will happen in tax policy in the coming years, you will see the fact that people's real incomes are growing. The fact is also that this increase exceeds the additional costs of possible increases in excise duties. Of course, it is always possible that people's incomes will grow less. When a person travels quite a distance every day, the fuel consumption is high. However, if we look at what the coalition will implement in the coming years, we will see, of course, on the assumption that the draft, which passed the first reading a few days ago, will also be passed by law, that the rate of tax-free income will rise rapidly every year in the coming years. This creates a situation where people actually get more money each year. The state is failing to pay income tax on ever higher income positions. Plus higher child benefits, social tax reductions and income tax refunds for low-paid people. The state takes and invests. It will also give back to the people who need it most to the low-paid sector. These are measures that the country will implement in the near future. If you look at the explanatory memorandum to this particular draft, you will see that the government coalition has carried out an in-depth analysis to understand the impact of launching one or another measure. And I'm telling you, there were alternative measures on the table in government negotiations. On the table it was possible to take a higher percentage of a person's income, instead of 20% today. On the table there was a return to corporate tax. There were property taxes on the table from car, real estate, home. The home taxes were all on the table. Now I have a question for you: if you are dealing with this specific comprehensive tax package, what would you like to do to increase the tax-free income of people? Today's government coalition has taken the view that labour taxes are being lowered and the tax burden is being passed on to consumption, pollution, vices. If you say that, in order to balance the impact of reducing labour taxes, domestic taxes and corporate tax should be introduced and people's wages should be taxed at higher levels, it is also a policy. Such a policy can also be pursued. It is simply the current government coalition that does not want to pursue such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U193	Thank you. There's no more calls. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U194	We will move on to the seventh inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Martin Repinski, Mailis Reps, Valeri Korb, Siret Kotka and Lauri Laasi. The inquiry is submitted on the 28th day of April and concerns the closing of the offices of Eesti Energia, he carries the number 5. Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. It is a great honour to welcome Tarmo Tamme to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U195	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, This point, too, concerns government policy, but not excise policy. This concerns how regional policy is implemented in Estonia. The current government coalition has committed to significantly improving the regional situation, creating jobs and ensuring that the regions survive. But what we are talking about today is news that the city of Tartu alone has lost 4,000 taxpayers and in one year the city of Tartu has not received budget revenue of 6 million euros. We have to admit the government policy that goes on like this, but for me, it's a disaster. Now to the question. Only four of the 13 service points of the group are left by Eesti Energia. Since 1 August, Eesti Energia's offices operate in Tallinn and Tartu. In addition to Tallinn and Tartu, Elektrilevi, a network company belonging to the group, can also handle business in Jõhvi and Pärnu. Service points are closed in Jõgeva, Kärdla, Paide, Põlva, Rakvere, Rapla, Valga, Viljandi and Võru, which leaves 21 people working. In Estonian regional policy, it should be important that institutions and jobs are not concentrated in individual viable centres. As a state-owned company, Eesti Energia should be at the forefront of those who follow such policies and set an example. Unfortunately, the behaviour of the state company is similar to the policy of closing banks' offices, which has contributed to the peripheralisation of different regions. Let it be added that another state-owned company, Omniva, formerly known as Estonian Post, closes post offices and also loses jobs. We have three questions for the Minister. We want to know how the government coalition is trying to keep regional policy alive, and whether every mammy and papi have all the e-solutions and phone apps in the village, which will help them communicate with Eesti Energia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U196	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Finance Sven Sester of the Riigikogu to answer questions and questions as a whole!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will give you an overview of the situation related to closing the offices of Eesti Energia. Seven members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry to this effect, which consists of three questions. The first question: 'How is it possible that the state, as owner, will watch powerlessly when Eesti Energia closes its offices? 'The design of the company's network of customer representation is a matter of day-to-day management and, if the current network of representations is economically inefficient, management has an obligation to adjust it if necessary. Of course, it must be ensured that customer service continues. To this end, Eesti Energia focuses on developing telephone service and e-service and plans to offer new solutions for contract-related operations to customers in the near future. That is why I find the question somewhat incomprehensible. The organisation of society, where the centralized planned economy tried to decide such matters in the central system of the country, was likely to collapse more than 25 years ago, and therefore the concept of 'goods and services deficit' sent us a long way. It's not worth talking about their quality. The Ministry of Finance has confirmed the expectations of the owner of Eesti Energia in 2014, according to which the main objectives of participation in this company are to maximise the value of oil shale and other natural resources, increase the value of the company and earn a stable dividend income, ensure security of supply as a power producer and owner of the electricity distribution network, implement regional labour resources and reduce the environmental impact. The strategic objectives are to be an important market participant in the regional electricity market; to reduce the CO2 content of the electricity production portfolio; to develop oil production and other ways of high-quality oil shale; to strengthen Estonia's position as a competence centre for oil shale energy by investing in research and development and by cooperating internationally; to increase the quality of network services by investing in volumes that do not significantly increase network tariffs; to base investment on the national plan 'Estonia 2030+'; to minimise the environmental impact of economic activity by using natural resources and affecting landscapes sustainably; to increase waste recovery and reduce environmental emissions. These are the expectations of the owner of Eesti Energia. These objectives relate to the objective of prudent management of state assets, to which the Minister of Finance must also strive in fulfilling the role of shareholder of Eesti Energia. The social aspects have not been overlooked among the targets set by the State; both the objective of controlling network tariffs and the interests of regional employment are taken into account. The second question: 'Do you think that Estonia, as an e-state, has reached the point that every pensioner living in a village is able to use only e-channels and mobile apps to cope with his/her daily business, including signing documents? " The fact that a person lives in a village or is retired should not lead to the automatic conclusion that he is unable or unwilling to use modern solutions. The proportion of people who do not know or want to use electronic means is steadily decreasing. 90% of Eesti Energia customers already use electronic channels and 98% of electricity sales contracts are automatically prolonged. The switching of electric readings to remote reading also significantly reduces the need for offices, as the latter have recently caused 55% of the moves to the representation. Online contracts can also be concluded in the future using e-service and phones. Eesti Energia is constantly working with customers, introducing and teaching them the possibilities of using electronic channels. It is clear that, in exceptional cases, it is not economically right to maintain a large network of agencies; it is more appropriate to resolve them differently. The situations that need to be resolved with the help of a customer service provider or specialist are mostly related to the network company's distribution themes , network contracts, connection agreements, etc. The electricity station has employees in all county centres in Estonia who can meet the customer and find a final solution to the problem if the possibilities of self-service and telephone service are exhausted. Electricity distribution is ready to serve customers in county centres, if necessary, by means of agreements with employees. The lion's share of problems can be solved by telephone and self-service. The third question: 'Why do different public enterprises not follow regional policy in the interests of the state, but instead contribute to the periphery of the regions? ' I cannot accept that this issue is linked to peripheralization. After all, the need to restructure the representation network is not due to people moving from the country to the city, but to the fact that the majority of clients prefer the use of more convenient modern service channels in the representation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U198	Minister, thank you. There's a question for you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U199	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr. Secretary of Finance! It was quite interesting to hear that Eesti Energia does not have to deal with any subject that is loss-making. Everything must be based on efficiency, the state must receive dividends. But the way the country solves these problems may turn out to be more expensive. I ask you this: how effective was Eesti Energia to invest in the Utah desert? A few weeks ago, I read the words of the Head of Eesti Energia that he doesn't even know what the business plan for this project is chosen between three or four options. Is this effective management or what you think is effective management? The ten percent of people who live in the country, who don't know the computer, it's like nobody. What is your view, is it more appropriate to spend 50 or 60 million Utah in the desert or to ensure that people can meet basic needs in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U200	Thank you. I think that any investment made not only by Eesti Energia but by any state company, not even by the state company, but by the state itself, must be as effective as possible. However, the rate of effectiveness is not always measurable even in the case of the state, for example, with profit. The state, investing taxpayers' money, does not always seek profit. For example, Eesti Energia must look at this investment separately in the case of the investment you have mentioned, and certainly consider whether one or the other investment has been made on the basis of this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U201	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U202	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I don't understand a lot of things lately. Speaking of 90% of the customers of Eesti Energia can communicate electronically by sending an e-mail or using a phone, one might think that the time will come when the last four outlets will also be closed. If we move this way, perhaps the relations between members of the Riigikogu and ministers could also be arranged by telephone. But what you're talking about with the efficiency and the use of money is a different story. These are the people who live in our country and were, or still are, taxpayers. You and we live on their pockets. I don't know where we're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U203	Thank you. This was not a question, it was a comment. I would say a comment after a comment. We must always take into account what objective we want to achieve when making decisions on taxpayers' money. If we take the decision that a public undertaking has to deal with regional policy, it is a separate decision that we should also take in this case. In the current example, the decision that Eesti Energia must deal with regional policy has not been taken. He has been set other goals from the enhancement of oil shale to the earning of dividends of a certain size, and there are a number of other goals, as I have read to you. This is all a place for us to decide. According to the information available so far, more than half of Eesti Energia's offices had up to ten customers a day. According to Eesti Energia, the number of these employees has fallen from 90 to 20 in the last three years. At the same time, more and more have gone to electronic services. The question is what goals we set for one company or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U204	Minister, thank you. No more questions, no more requests. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U205	We will move on to the eighth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp and Artur Talvik on the seventh day of May. Inquiry is about the law amending the Income Tax Act and bears the number 17. The answer is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. I'm asking for Andres Ammas, on behalf of the interviewers, to introduce an inquiry to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U206	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, it has been one month and one day since the question was made. Much water has flowed into the sea and, in the meantime, these issues have already been addressed once in this Chamber. But then it was night, and maybe the atmosphere was a little more nervous, and now it's such a good night and it's good to revisit these topics with you in an intimate atmosphere. Our inquiry concerns a reformulation of the system of income tax incentives or a restructuring plan. For example, the issue of access to recreational education, the topic of encouraging lifelong learning, the topic of encouraging donation, the issue of supporting families with children. I'm not going to read all the questions right now, but I'd like to stress a few things. In the opinion of the heirs, the intentions of the current coalition conflict with a number of previously adopted documents in this Chamber. Indeed, the civil society development plan states that one of its objectives is to increase the volume of donations to EUR 21 million by 2020 by promoting the regulatory environment. Now the threshold for the deduction of income tax has been lowered. True, it must be said that one concession has, however, been made by the government on this issue and that the 5% limit has been abolished. In the same way, the aim of the Estonian Lifelong Learning Strategy in 2014-2020 is that all Estonian people have been created to meet their needs and abilities throughout the life cycle, in order to ensure that they can enjoy a dignified self-realization in society, work and family life as a person. However, in our opinion, the possibilities for reducing adult interest, including associated costs, are now considerably reduced. We ask the Minister, if possible, to explain directly, after having answered the question, why it was precisely these concrete changes that the government was going through. The revenue they can generate from the state budget, let us be honest, is not huge, but there is plenty of trouble and trouble with interest groups. Why, anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U207	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Finance Sven Sester of the Riigikogu to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, Good Free Party! I will give you an overview of my understanding and I will respond to the inquiry that was submitted on 7 May on the amendment of the Income Tax Act. The first question: 'The bill states that from the second child, the tax credit rate will be set in stone and not raised at the same rate as the tax-free minimum. In 2019, families with two or more children will lose 612 euros of tax relief compared to the current system. Please explain what is the intention not to link tax relief to a future increase in the tax-free minimum for families with children, and does this not mean that the legitimate expectations of beneficiaries of the benefit are being deceived? ' The additional tax-free income for child maintenance will remain at the current level of EUR 154 per month. Thus, the situation of parents is not deteriorating compared to today and no one's legitimate expectations are being violated. Instead, the situation of parents will improve due to an increase in overall tax-free income and child benefits. Instead of a uniform benefit for all, it is appropriate to increase children's benefits, which help families that are particularly vulnerable. The additional tax-free income for child maintenance affects only sufficiently many parents who receive taxable income and raise at least two children. However, child benefit also helps one child, as well as no income or, for example, unemployment benefit for dependent parents. The wrong claim raised in the question that families with two or more children will not benefit from a tax credit of EUR 612 in 2019 compared to the current system. According to the draft, EUR 612 is the difference between the tax-free income in 2019, i.e. EUR 2460 and the additional tax-free income for child maintenance of EUR 1848 per year. Thus, compared to a situation where the additional tax-free income for child maintenance would be equal to the overall tax-free income in 2019, the actual reduction from the second child to the 20% rate of income tax is EUR 122 per year. The second question: 'One of the objectives of the approved civil society development plan is to increase the volume of donations to EUR 21 million by 2020 by promoting the legal environment ('Civil Society Development Plan 2015-2020', p. 19, sub-objective 3). However, compared to 2013, the volume of donations declared last year decreased by a million euros. The sharp reduction in the threshold for the deduction of income tax and the 5% rigid restriction on donations are contrary to its stated objective. This will lower the motivation of current donors and deter potential new donors. Why is the government making a tax change contrary to a strategic document previously adopted and agreed with many parties, and what are you going to do to remove this contradiction? 'In the draft tax changes approved by the Government, donation has been made more tax-efficient by abolishing the so-called "sublimit" of the deduction of charitable gifts and donations made by natural persons. While under the current Income Tax Act, gifts and donations made by a natural person can be deducted from 5% of taxable income less general exemption from income tax, interest on housing loans and training costs, the draft amendment of the law has specifically waived the 5% threshold. A general deduction limit of EUR 1200 per year, but not more than 50% of taxable income, applies. It was also one of the proposals made by the Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations. On the basis of the 2013 income tax return data, as a result of the change, individuals will be able to donate EUR 2.7 million more, free of income tax. The volume of donations declared by private individuals last year did not decrease compared to 2013, but increased to around 0.9 million euros. Question 3: 'Section 1 (8) of the draft law limits the right to deduct training costs from taxable income. Once the changes enter into force, beneficiaries of hobby training over 18 years of age will no longer be able to benefit from the tax credit. The explanatory memorandum says: 'In sports schools, as well as art schools, dance studios, and other institutions like this, a number of adults are also studying in addition to young people, and the state supports the activities of young people in particular. 'Estonia's Lifelong Learning Strategy 2014 to 2020' (approved by the government 13.02.2014) sets the following general objective: 'All Estonian people have been created to meet their needs and abilities throughout the life cycle to ensure that they can enjoy a dignified self-realization in society, work and family life as a person. " Promoting lifelong learning is one of the educational priorities of the country. The format of lifelong learning is also 'non-formal and informal learning in all its diversity'. The opportunities for acquiring new knowledge and skills are provided by employment, free and leisure education. " Why is the government cutting income tax returns on adult interest activities, even though this is contrary to a strategic document adopted by it and agreed with many parties, and what do you intend to do to remove this inconsistency? " There are other and better ways to achieve the goals set out in the Lifelong Learning Strategy than tax credit, which in itself does not create learning opportunities for people. Income tax will be refunded next year, so when you pay for your training, you must have the money you need yourself. In particular, the wealthier and thus less in need of state support can afford to participate in paid training. It cannot be considered right that taxpayers, too, who are overwhelmed by paid training, must indirectly support the hobby activities of the beneficiaries of the higher income. Limiting the deduction of tax incentives, including those related to recreational education, will enable tax-free income to be increased, which will improve the situation of people with lower incomes. It should be borne in mind that the initial objective of the training cost tax credit was not to support hobby education, but, above all, to create opportunities to improve people's competitiveness in the labour market. In line with this objective, the costs of education and training and any kind of language training can still be deducted from income. The cost of children's education of interest will also remain deductible. The cost of further training can be deducted by an adult if the training provider is authorised for further training or has submitted an economic activity notification and the curriculum is intended to achieve the professional qualification, profession or professional competence included in the training programme or described in the professional standard. Question 4: 'The changes foreseen in the draft will reduce the financial capacity of civil society organisations. The same applies to training activities carried out by a number of non-profit organisations and foundations. In paragraph 10 of the explanatory memorandum, 'Coordination of the draft and stakeholder involvement', there is no representative organisation representing civil society organisations. What is involved in ignoring this target group? ' As I have already explained in the answer to the second question, the possibility of supporting civil society organisations under the draft is rather increasing, as the current 5% threshold for the deduction of income from charitable gifts and donations is abandoned and can instead be deducted by applying the general threshold (up to 50% of taxable income, but not more than EUR 1200 per year). As regards sending the draft to civil society organisations for their opinion, I accept the criticisms put forward in the question. As there was no provision directly addressed to the third sector in the draft, the Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations was not included among the addressees. At the same time, it is true that changes to the donation regulation, in particular concerning donors, can affect non-profit organisations and foundations that receive these donations. We will try to keep this in mind in the future and to involve the addressees involved in this way. But, of course, the bill was available to everyone in the draft information system. The Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations used this opportunity to express their views. I am grateful for the proposals that have been made to them. Question 5: "Do you think it is right that a multisectoral tax change, contrary to strategic documents adopted by the government itself and agreed with many parties, is aimed only at covering the overexploited promises of the coalition? ' I do not agree with the assessments that have been made on this issue. There is also a significant contradiction in the question. It is understandable that, from the position of the opposition, it is appropriate to treat tax changes that increase the state's revenues as infinitely harmful and risky, and all the positive steps that they fund as insignificant and useless. However, I would point out that the changes planned to implement the government union agreement shift the tax burden from labour to consumption, which the OECD has also recommended to improve the competitiveness of the Estonian economy, and which enable several steps to be taken to ease the pains in Estonia's life. The government union improves the livelihood of low-paid people, thus boosting the labour market, lowering labour taxes and raising child benefits. It is always possible to say that more should be done, but it is difficult to deal with these steps overexploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U209	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You're a great actor, and you're sure of what you're doing. Can you tell us which of these tax changes will contribute most to the improvement of Estonia's life and the well-being of the Estonian people? Do not start again by naming child benefits first. What do you believe most about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U211	Thank you. I would leave my personal opinion unanswered with your kind permission, and that is what it is difficult to point out, because the various measures will affect the different target groups as a whole. It is difficult for me to make measures compete with each other and to say, for example, whether the tax refund for low-paid people is a better measure than a reduction in social tax. They are intended for different target groups. The tax refund for low-paid people, as you know, is really targeted specifically at those who need it most, people who receive very low wages. The State will direct EUR 38 million. The opposition has criticised the lowering of social tax, saying that it does not have a special effect in society. However, in 2018, companies will have EUR 90 million. Whether it's going to be a raise like in the public sector or it's going to be an investment, I don't know. I know what the public sector is doing. And yet the same subject of child support, the rise in child support since the third child. How do I compare this with a measure for low-paid people and say that one or the other is better? These combined measures are certainly the best example of the current government vision that needs to be done. The measures have different target groups: the aim is to stimulate birth rates, to alleviate the problems of low-paid people and to encourage entrepreneurship by reducing social tax. These are not measures that compete with each other, so I'm sorry, but I'm not going to answer which one of them could be the best. Of course, during the election campaign, some parties suggested one measure more and the other one. However, I was more close to my heart maybe the concerns of low-paid people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U212	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U213	We will move on to the ninth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Mark Soosaar, Hardi Volmer and Marianne Mikko on the 14th day of May. An inquiry has been made to amend the regulations for herring fisheries, bearing the number 23, and the rural minister Urmas Kruuse answers that question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Mark Soosaare, to introduce the inquiry to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister Urmas Kruuse! Ladies and gentlemen, There are 500 people living on a small island, 35 people living on a neighbouring island, and the Government of the Republic, I think, did the right thing in 2002 when he presented Kihnu's culture to the UNESCO list of traditional cultures and also undertook to support the basic activities on which the island people's culture persists. Fisheries, agriculture, livestock farming and handicrafts were at the forefront. There is almost no more agriculture and livestock farming, but coastal fishing is yet, and the Gulf of Pärnu and the Gulf of Livonia are the last pulpit of our coastal fishing. For the last three years, the Ministry of Agriculture has kindly allocated a special herring quota to the Kurnians in order to allow the Kihnu community to continue living so that 60 fishermen, including 30 to 35 herring fishermen, can feed their families. Fortunately, it has grown gradually and thanks for this to the Government of the Republic. But this year, the story happened that all the fangs had to do was catch victory, i.e. community-based fishing, and the rest of the Gulf of Riga had to go over to a box-based, i.e. kacoam fishing distribution, so that natural resources were not divided between men or boats, but between traps. It is no secret that this quota distribution leads nowhere else than to the same end result that happened on Lake Peipsi. And so it has happened that a couple of Kihnu fishermen believed blue-eyed that the owls rented out to the continental men were also caught on a owl basis, i.e. 44 tons of fish for each trap, but from the 1200 tons that were set aside for Kihnu, coastal fishers on the mainland caught out. It's kind of hard to explain how it happened from this remote. But in a simple way, the fishermen who had rented Kihnu's kauumes took and apparently declared their crate-based traps when they brought it to port to the quota of Kihnu. And this has been acknowledged by the Environmental Board, the Environmental Inspectorate and the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. The country's hands were simply not long enough to be able to control this scheme at sea. This is now the question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Since only about 600 tonnes were caught out of their 1200 tonnes and 600 tonnes were lost due to scams, these schemes also included formal records of Kihnu, then our question is how the Ministry of Agriculture is trying to compensate Kihnu and Manija's fishermen for the loss of income, which I believe is EUR 120000 to the Municipality of Kihnu, as well as EUR 130000. And is the Government of the Republic prepared to review the regulation of herring fishing and to amend the Population Register Act and the Law of the Permanently Inhabited Small Islands in such a way as to exclude permanent residents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U215	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, for the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the question of the first question: how does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to compensate the fishermen of Kihnu and Manija for the loss of income? In view of the proposals made by Kihnu and Manilaiu, or the permanent resident coastal fishermen of Manija, on the organisation of herring fisheries in these small islands, the permanent residents of these islands have been allowed to catch the annual herring catches authorised by the Government of the Republic decree. The Ministry of Agriculture has agreed with the permanent residents of Kihnu and Manilaiu that they are entitled to 24 crate traps, which catch about 99% of the total annual herring yield. It has also granted fishing authorisations only to permanent residents of these smaller islands or to associated enterprises. If the permanent residents of Kihnu or Manilau have granted them fishing opportunities allocated to them under the Fishing Act on the basis of historical fishing rights, the Ministry of Agriculture has also verified, when granting fishing authorisations, that they are also enterprises linked to permanent residents or permanent residents of the same small islands. The annual catches of herring allocated to the permanent residents of Kihnu and Manilaiu have been taken into account only for herring declared on the basis of fishing authorisations granted to the permanent residents of these islands. In determining the permanent residents of Kihnu and Manilaiu, the Ministry of Agriculture has based itself on the definition of permanent residents in the Small Islands Act: the population register must include an indication of residence on Kihnu or Manilaiu Island. So we have used all the legal possibilities to ensure that the permanent residents of Kihnu and Manilau are used by the permanent residents of these small islands themselves. At the same time, we must admit that there are doubts, but not evidence that some of the permanent inhabitants of Kihnu and Manilaiu, who have had fishing opportunities, both within the limit of the permanent inhabitants of these small islands, and within the limit of the maximum number of permanent inhabitants of Pärnu county, may have mentioned some of the herring caught under the permit of other areas of Pärnu to account for Kihnu and Manilau permanent residents' annual permitted herring yield. However, it must be acknowledged that this situation could only have arisen as a result of the actions of the permanent residents of these small islands themselves. The Ministry of Agriculture has not yet compensated for the loss of income from fishing for one reason or another and does not consider this to be justified in the present case. The second question: is the Government of the Republic prepared to review the regulations for herring fishing and to amend the Population Register Act and the Small Islands Act, which would exclude future schemes with permanent resident status? According to our information, the concept of permanent resident of a permanent established small island was specified on 22 February 2007 by the Act on the Permanent Establishment of the Small Islands adopted by the Riigikogu and by the Act on the Amendment of the Officials' Titles and Grades Act, which was initiated by a group of members of the Riigikogu. One of these initiators is Mark Soosaar, a good successor. We believe that the initiators of this law and the communities of the smaller islands are best placed to contribute to what can be considered as permanent residents of the smaller islands. The definition of permanent resident is also provided in the Language Act, according to which the permanent resident of the municipality is an Estonian citizen, a citizen of the European Union holding a right of permanent residence and a member of his family, or a foreigner residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term residence permit, whose permanent residence is the residence of which the data are entered in the Estonian Population Register in the municipality or city in question. Thus, under the Language Act, permanent residents are also identified through the Population Register. In itself, the Ministry of Agriculture does not oppose the clarification of the concept of permanent resident of a permanent small island if better solutions were found than in the current law. However, as regards the organisation of fishing for herring on Kihnu and Manilaiu Island, we believe that the assumption would be that, within the limits of the number of permanent inhabitants of Kihnu and Manilau, a permanent resident who could be caught with each boxtrap would be able to catch a proportionate proportion of the total annual allowable catch of herring in these small islands, a change to the annual distribution of the permitted catch by watertrap similar to that of other regions of Pärnu county. That would be the alternative. At the same time, we have been following this dialogue so far, and we continue to think it is precisely the representatives of the smaller islands who wish to continue with the current system, which seeks the 'first come, first served' principle, until the annual catches for permanent residents are exhausted, or really goes over to the water trap-based distribution. And, of course, we are ready to discuss other alternative proposals from the representatives of the smaller islands to ensure even better that the fishing opportunities allocated to the permanent inhabitants of the smaller islands are used by the people living on these islands themselves. Thank you, Reverend Asker!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U217	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U218	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I can see in your eyes and hear in your voice the concern for this small community. As far as the status of a permanent resident is concerned, as I have said at times, this was very impressively highlighted by the census. All small islands had quite a difference when comparing registered people and those who said that they actually lived there. There was a difference in repetition. However, as far as the herring fishery is concerned, unfortunately, the small island council does not have the opportunity to contribute to the method of fishing and the distribution of catches. Do you not think that there could be a provision in the Small Islands Act and the Fishing Act that the local authority could contribute to the establishment of a management system that ensures sustainable development on the island?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U219	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Maybe at the moment it would be too premature to give a no or a yes answer. I think that this requires a little deeper discussion on the basis of what has been the subject of certain proposals in the years and how long some regulation has been going on. At the same time, the opinion of the local government on one issue or another is an important opinion of any ministry. It doesn't mean it's always a hundred percent accepted, but in dialogue, it's absolutely necessary. On the other hand, we know that there are different views within communities on how to proceed. Can't say one hundred percent supports one way or another. This makes decision making even more difficult. If there was a very clear position within the community, it would also be easy for the country to make a decision. At the same time, when taking special care in the smaller islands, it must be borne in mind that, although we can give them special status in legislative terms, we must always take into account some precedents. I'm sure there's a way for lawyers to talk. However, as a minister, I am, and the entire Ministry is also open for dialogue. If, during the dialogue, we can clearly find better solutions and we believe in them, then legislation can go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U220	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U221	We will move on to the tenth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Arno Sild, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Henn Põlluaas on the first day of June. The question is about the payment of agricultural payments, according to the Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. The representative of the heirs, I understand, is now the second: had to be Henn Põlluaas, but is Arno Bridge. I ask you to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The enquiry concerns the payment of agricultural payments. Jaan Kallas, Director General of the Agricultural Registers and Information Board, or PRIA, appeared on 5 May in the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. He argued that, in connection with the organisation of the payment of agricultural payments by the European Union, farmers would not be paid payments at the end of this year. This will be done in February-April next year. In this regard, we ask you to answer the following questions: As Minister for Rural Affairs, you are responsible for the activities of the PRIA. Does the Ministry plan further measures in the organisation of work so that agricultural payments can be paid out at the end of this year? How does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to compensate farmers for several months of late payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U223	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears the number 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U224	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions of the questioners and read the first question. 'As Minister of Rural Life, you are responsible for the activities of the PRIA. Will the Ministry plan further measures in the organisation of work so that agricultural payments can be paid out by the end of this year? ' Since 2004, when agricultural direct payments have been paid in Estonia, the single area payment has been paid in the year in which the aid applications were submitted, the 2004-2012 additional direct payments or transitional payments have been paid from the Estonian state budget, the 2010/2014 special support for the dairy sector and the special aid for pig farming in 2014. In previous years, a small part of the payments have remained in the following year, but there has been an administration of requests for additional checks or a settlement of disputes concerning the decisions of the PRIA. The final date for payment of all agricultural direct payments under European Union legislation shall be 30 June of the following calendar year. It must be acknowledged that the PRIA has so far done a good job and managed to make payments in December in all years. Therefore, the idea of partial advance payments before 1 December has always been discarded, as this could lead to an estimated payment of the remaining aid in February. This year, the situation is really different and clearly more tense. During the period from 2015 to 2020 seven additional direct payments will be implemented in addition to the single area payment and new requirements will apply, which will have to be verified by the PRIA. For example, in the case of direct payments, on-the-spot checks will increase by 50%. There is also a need to digitise over 130000 landscape elements and to modify the boundaries of more than 100000 agricultural masses. The regulations of the European Commission, which are the basis for the payment of grants, were completed late and therefore the preparatory period for the implementation of Estonian grants as a whole has also remained short. It will take a lot of time for the IT solutions needed to process the PRIA, which will also depend on the legislation on which the procedure is based. In previous years, on-the-spot checks in the fields have usually ended in the first half of October and the calculation of aids for applicants and the preparation of award decisions have since started. If we want to stay on the timetable for previous years, we must certainly take additional measures to speed up the on-the-spot checks already. As Minister, I can say that another meeting with the management of the PRIA should take place on 9 June when the call comes to a plan of measures to ensure the payment of direct payments in December. In addition to the timetable, possible additional costs related to overtime payments and upgrading IT solutions are probably also under discussion. The PRIA wants to pay out common agricultural subsidies as soon as possible and we will, in any case, look for all possible solutions. At the same time, we are also in contact with other countries of the European Union and with the European Commission, because other countries are in a similar difficult situation. Question 2: 'How does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to compensate farmers for several months of late payment? ' Here I can say once again that the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the PRIA, will do everything in its power to ensure that payments are made in December. And right now, we do not want to discuss what happens if the disbursement of grants is postponed to the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U225	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? No, it's not. Minister, thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-06-08_U226	Dear colleagues, now comes the time you've all been waiting for, namely a free microphone. I ask everyone who wishes to sign up after the hammer hit to speak in a free microphone! Since I don't see any calls, I don't open a free microphone. Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 19.41 p.m.
