ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 9th plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws increasing the unit of fines. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U3	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee initiates a draft amendment to § 30 of the VAT Act. The Chancellor of Justice presented a s. a On 16 October, the Riigikogu adopted a proposal to bring the VAT Act into line with the Constitution. The Riigikogu discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on 12 November and decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this decision. As a result of the amendment, providers of paid passenger transport services shall be treated on the basis of a Community licence in the same way as providers of taxi services. As a reminder, the Chancellor of Justice was approached by a small bus or transfer bus service provider and the problem was that he could not deduct 100% of the input VAT from his daily business. With this amendment, this unfair situation will hopefully be resolved, to which the Chancellor of Justice also referred when he proposed it to the Riigikogu. I'll hand over the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U5	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the draft law repealing the Cohabitation Act signed by the following Members: Jaanus Karilaid, Mart Helme, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits, Martin Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Erki Savisaar, Dmitri Dmitriev, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Põldaru, Vladimir Velman and Siret Kotka. The idea of the bill is very simple. By adopting the Cohabitation Act last year, instead of uniting society, society was divided. In the previous Riigikogu there was no number of votes required for the correct adoption of the law, which required the adoption of a separate law in the current composition of the Riigikogu. The adoption of implementing provisions is also blocked and those who voted in favour of the adoption of the law at the time do not want to complete their legislative work today. This poor legislative practice and uncertainty can lead to a number of court decisions and costs for the taxpayer. By repealing the law of cohabitation, we want to put an end to the confusion that has been created and restore the situation that satisfies the majority of the former society. Finally, there are hundreds of more important problems in Estonian society than the cohabitation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U7	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U8	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will pass on a draft decision to establish a set of measures and to initiate a legislative amendment linking parental benefit to the medical supervision of the child. There are more and more cases in Estonia where newborn children are deprived of proper parental care. This is because lower income families can consider childbearing as a new source of income. As a result, there are situations where children are neglected and forced to suffer empty stomachs and abuse. According to Statistics Estonia, 10.1% of children live in absolute poverty in Estonia. This is a painful issue that should concern not only children who are victims of poverty, but also parents and other members of society who are responsible for children. It is therefore necessary to exclude situations where parents plan to receive children solely for the purpose of receiving social benefits. In Estonia, the problem with the health surveillance system for children, especially young children, is that, while family doctors are obliged to monitor children, parents are not obliged to bring children for observation. The system is simply built on parental responsibility. According to family doctors, there are plenty of small children in Estonia whose health and development they do not have an overview of. The analysis of the conditionality of the grants ordered by the European Commission points out that, in many cases, the conditionality of the grant, i.e. the fulfilment of certain conditions, may be effective in achieving the desired behaviour. Certain conditional elements are still in use in Estonia, for example in the case of child benefit, which is paid longer than usual when the child is studying. In the light of the practice in European countries, which I did not have much time to talk about, and of what was reflected in the studies, the Centre Party Group proposes to initiate a legislative amendment linking parental benefits to the child's medical examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U9	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U10	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonians are said to be a very stubborn people. I am living proof of this because, for the third time, I am going to present an inquiry to Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna in the evening paper about an article published by a US diplomat on 3 November. In this regard, we are interested, on the basis of Article 41 (1) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, whether, according to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this diplomat has violated this convention and intervened in Estonia's internal affairs. As the inhabitants of a sovereign state, we also wonder if our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has responded. We therefore have a request from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer the following questions: 'Do you intend to protest to the US embassy regarding the interference of foreign diplomat in Estonian internal affairs? Do you intend to invite the U.S. Embassy's temporary assistant Chever Voltmer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide further explanations on the facts? ' Signed by members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U11	So, five drafts have been adopted and one inquiry is being examined under our Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 9th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 1 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U12	According to the agenda, the Minister for Social Protection responds to an inquiry by Dmitri Dmitriev, Olga Ivanova, Peeter Ernits, Tarmo Tamm, Kadri Simson, Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassilyev, Lauri Laas and Märt Sults. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! In October, nine members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection concerning the concentration of posts in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. One of the many objectives of the Coalition Agreement is to reduce the number of government jobs in line with the decline in the working age population. The aim is to reduce duplication and red tape in the public sector, and together 750 people are to be made redundant, or 1.5% of the public sector's workforce. With regard to the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, its workforce has recently increased by 5%, i.e. by 71 people. It is now planned that the state sector will be made redundant, which will mostly affect the same area of administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, from which 235 people will be made redundant. With regard to the situation that has arisen, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Social Protection. 'What positions do the Ministry of Social Affairs have for administrative redundancy? How is it planned to re-distribute such a large number of people's work after these posts have been lost? ' We are also very interested in the health care system here, i.e. how much the Ministry plans to pool staff in health care facilities and who is more specifically affected. And there are a number of other questions that the minister will read out, I expect before he answers them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U14	The Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U15	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable heirs. I have been asked about six questions concerning the institutions in the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs and cuts in the positions of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The first question: 'Which posts go to administrative redundancies in the Ministry of Social Affairs? Please specify institutions, posts and also figures according to institutions! ' First I'll tell you the background. According to the government's decision, there are fewer than 235 places of employment, or 2.1% of places, in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The background is that the Ministry of Social Affairs has 11179 people working in the area of government, which means that there are so many jobs. The plan to cut the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs includes the state of 1 June 2015 and the aim is to implement this cut by 31 May 2016. I say so much more as a political background that the government's decision is to reduce the public sector that has grown in the meantime, because our population is decreasing. I am already going to say 'preconceived', because anyhow, there will be some clarification that the Ministry of Social Affairs will not give up specific positions that must be lost, and that remains up to the authorities themselves. The aim is to reduce the number of jobs in the public sector. In the past, so-called monetary cut targets have been set, which have not actually led to a real decline in the public sector. We must recall the principle of how the Estonian state develops and on which the Estonian state persists. Public sector jobs are not jobs that generate tax revenue. We need to pay significantly more attention to creating more jobs, especially in the private sector. In the private sector, the added value of the additional revenue will be generated and the basic basis of the tax base will also be created. It should be borne in mind that the role of the public sector is to provide services and to ensure the functioning of the state, local governments or their institutions and agencies in order to serve the Estonian people. So a priori that the public sector must guarantee jobs for all people does not comply with the principle that I share. It is up to the public sector to ensure that the state functions as effectively as possible and that people have access to services. If we're looking at numbers, 235 people are really a big cut. But if you look at the whole area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, of the 11179 people, it's 2.1%. This cut is distributed among institutions directly under the Ministry of Social Affairs, such as the Agency of Medicines, Social Insurance Agency, Health Board, Labour Inspectorate, National Institute for Health Development, Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre. We are also talking about foundations related to the Ministry, such as the Estonian E-Health Foundation, the Estonian Disabled People's Foundation (apart from the cut-off) and the Estonian Health Care Picture Bank, until hospitals. In the case of hospitals, the Ministry of Social Affairs cannot directly make any cuts, as these are foundations. Here, the state can rather implement ownership policy through the Ministry of Social Affairs. The second question: 'How is it planned to redistribute so many people's work after these posts have been lost? ' As I said, the cut in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs covers 235 places of service of 11179, or 2.1% of the total number of people currently employed in the area of government of the Ministry. This is not a significant percentage. For example, so-called voluntary turnover has been 9.3% per year on average in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which means that there should be no problems with the restructuring of work. The Ministry of Social Affairs will certainly analyse this task by institution and, if necessary, also provide support. The issue is, above all, the restructuring of work; no function is missed. I would also point out that this cut has not taken into account the increase in the implementation of the unemployment fund's capacity to work reform during the 2015-2016 period. It's a separate project that doesn't fall under the cap. The third question: 'Social is also one of the most sensitive in society. Therefore, the administrative concentration of the Ministry of Social Affairs is a rather risky step. How do you ensure the functioning of such an important area and the quality of services after redundancies? ' I return to my first two answers and, as Minister for Social Protection, I say that we need to organise our work more effectively. If we look at how broad the Ministry of Social Affairs operates, this cut is not too much, but should rather serve as an example for other public sector organisations. The substantive side of the services provided by the State will certainly not suffer. Question 4: "How do you comment on the claim that savings will be achieved financially, but in fact the state and thus the services provided by the state will remain weaker? In a situation where we already have huge queues behind the various services provided by the state (treatment queues), it is quite a risky step to further reduce the workforce. " I would like to stress once again that this cut is not so large and serious as to harm the provision of services in any way. This issue is more about the medical sector and the cuts there. We have agreed that the cut will not affect, for example, those in health care institutions that directly serve patients, i.e. doctors and nurses. However, we must bear in mind that we have large medical facilities where, in addition to the medical staff mentioned above, there is still a large number of additional staff at the expense of which the goal of the cut can be achieved. Question 5: 'The managers of major hospitals have been ordered to pool staff. How much is the Ministry planning to pool staff from health care facilities? Who is more specifically affected? ' Indeed, the Ministry has sent hospital managers and board members the so-called cut-off number concerning the implementation of the Government of the Republic's guideline, i.e. to reduce the number of employees. However, how to achieve the goal precisely is already the issue of managing specific hospitals, as well as the decision of the Boards of Hospitals. We are looking forward to feedback on this. The state as owner can give a guide here, real work must be done by the respective management bodies. And the last question: 'How do you assess the situation in which the numbers of redundancies have been declared, but there is no knowledge of which agencies and posts are affected? How do you justify keeping people so ignorant? ' As I have already answered earlier questions, we have information on the number and purpose of the redundancies. Fundamental policy has been discussed in the Government of the Republic and the relevant guidelines have also gone to the relevant organisations. Whether or not someone is in the dark right now depends on the organisation of the work of these organisations. Therefore, the objective is to implement the government guideline by 31 May 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U16	Questions for the Minister. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have talked to you repeatedly about the third sector, precisely the women's shelters, and I ask you again for an answer on behalf of Eha Reitelmann. First of all, we were talking about women being counseled in shelters until April, because there is still money from the Structural Funds, and Reitelmann claims that there is no money from January. We saw that you had added EUR 54000 to the budget, but this article talks about the need for EUR 200000. What kind of answer do you give me on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U18	Thank you, dear questioner. Surely your question has nothing to do with a specific question, and I can tell you with full calmness that our cut-off targets do not affect women's shelters in any way. On the contrary, the Ministry foresees an additional EUR 150000 for counselling services for women's shelters in the state budget for the following year, and this information has been communicated to these same organisations. Moreover, cooperation will develop the Victim Assistance Act, where very precise regulation has been written through organisations providing women's asylum services in order to ensure that all this activity is sustainable. In addition to what I mentioned earlier, we have provided EUR 150000 in addition to the basic funding provided for in the state budget. This will ensure that EUR 500000, or half a million, goes directly to the funding of women's asylums. This shows very clearly that the Ministry of Social Affairs has a priority to deal with violence against women and to provide victim support services. So if the National Audit Office claims here in the near future that the state will not undertake reforms, I, as Minister of Social Protection, say that there are very large reforms in the social field and one of them specifically concerns the fight against violence against women.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U19	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Anniversaries ago, the government decided that 1000 disabled people would be employed in the public sector as a result of the labour capacity reform. However, the government agreed on 750 redundancies from the public sector on anniversaries or less later. How do you explain these two quite contradictory messages to each other that, on the one hand, we are employing disabled people in the public sector, which, of course, I consider very welcome, but on the other hand, we are concentrating?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U21	Thank you. For the sake of accuracy, I say that it was not the Government of the Republic that made it its goal, but the Riigikogu specifically wrote into the law that, in fact, 1000 people need to create jobs in the public sector. And that decision will be implemented by the Government of the Republic. These two decisions to reduce jobs in the public sector and create jobs for people with disabilities, with special needs, are not incompatible. I do not agree with the logic that if there is a need to cut the public sector, i.e. to reduce the proportion of the public sector, i.e. those who are paid by Estonian taxpayers, then the jobs of people with disabilities must be reduced immediately. On the contrary, I think that this reform will provide an opportunity for a broader review of who is doing our job. And if we look at the instruments and opportunities that will result in the implementation of the work capacity reform from next year, and I am thinking of the adjustment of jobs as well as the planned allowances, then it will certainly help the public sector to get more people with special needs to work with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U22	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U23	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Large hospital managers have been ordered to make significant redundancies. As far as I can remember, it could be 150 people on two big hospitals. I'm asking how it's happened that there's so much left over now. So do you think the hospital won't need any more sanitars, janitors or cooks in the future? Or what else you don't need? And the other part of the question is how the government can even dictate to the company how much employees should be employed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U24	Thank you. Indeed, hospitals, too, have been guided to sum up their costs and reduce their staff. It is clear that we cannot reduce the number of doctors; we cannot reduce the number of nurses or the number of orderlys we need. However, as the questioner said, our major hospitals have grown quite well, and they also need to review their staff policies. As I said in my answers, we cannot give them decisions to comply, as we, as a ministry, can make decisions in the case of public authorities that are directly under our authority. Foundations are mostly hospitals and can indeed implement human resources policy through ownership policy, i.e. by issuing guidelines and Council decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U25	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, good minister. I have a question, although it is not the subject of this question, but it is the same. 175 people from the education sector are planned to be concentrated. No one knows where they're being laid off. The education authorities think they're gonna get laid off there. I mean, there's terrible nervousness, terrible twitching that passes over to schools. Schools don't know how many teachers get laid off. How is their social protection covered? Where are the redundancy payments taken? And where will a salary fund deficit be taken when structural changes are made for which there is no notice period? That means you have to get fired.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U27	Thank you. I really cannot comment on the cuts in the education sector, but there will certainly be no deterioration in the quality of education. And I can tell all people who work in the public sector who should somehow lose their jobs that they are guaranteed all the rights provided for in the laws of the Republic of Estonia. There's no way we're gonna talk about a cut going fast or something. When a country changes its structure, it will certainly set an example by complying with all the laws on social protection for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U28	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I guess the Minister doesn't have a wish to say anything yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U29	And now, after the hammer hit, there's a free microphone round. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U30	Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the government coalition is now very comfortable in power, because the state's budget for next year, the bankruptcy of Estonian Air, the administrative reform plan, the deterioration in access to medical care and even the threat of ISIS terror have become more important than the congress of the Estonian Central Party, even the topic of the Central Party. All the weekend briefing shows kept talking about the Centre Party and Toobal. Thank you very much. Our rating, I think, is going to rise even further. At the end of the week, I also listened to the programme of Riigikogu member Kalle Muuli, and I wonder that he too has a great interest in the fate of the Centre Party, even though his own party's rating has fallen below the critical threshold. A few days ago, there was a Vox Populi show asking what they thought about the government coalition's activities, the Taavi Rõivas government. The answers were exceptionally critical and negative. One gentleman read out a long list, which is all very badly, and added that everything that can be screwed up has been screwed up. But, of course, we got an even better picture of the situation in Estonia from the survey of the selection preferences of Turku-Studies AS commissioned by national broadcasters. This showed that the support of the Estonian Centre Party has grown larger than the support of two government parties, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats together. Emor's study also gave the same result in essence: the rating of the government departments fell and the Central Party's rating increased by 6%. This shows that the people are satisfied with the Centre Party. However, they are not satisfied with the policies of sots, squirrels and IRL. And, of course, the support of the opposition parties at the moment is much greater than the popularity of the government parties, or people will certainly want other parties to power. The Prime Minister's popularity is not to be described as popular, or his reputation, because these figures are so poor. I guess no one's ever had one that bad. I do think that the Estonian people deserve a better government and a more honest policy, deserve a Prime Minister who would not shirk questions who would not respond by lapping. We definitely need a government that isn't deaf and blind. And if we look at today's newspapers, we will see how the current government has brought Estonia so down that Latvia and Lithuania have missed us in every way. The paper states that Estonia has become the red lantern of the Baltic Sea, and the situation is explained on a large scale. This state is described in today's Postimees. And if we look at our gross domestic product, it has only increased by 8% over five years, but in Latvia 16% and Lithuania 17%. Gross domestic product per capita is also currently higher in Lithuania and Latvia than in Estonia. So it's embarrassing to talk about these things. As far as our economy is concerned, Auditor General Alar Karis is also unhappy. As we know, he's coming here to appear before us, but I'm afraid the government is ignoring his views again. So we have to do something together, we can't go on at this low! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U31	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U32	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you will understand that I cannot resist the temptation to use this five minutes in the free microphone of the Riigikogu, because this may be the only air time I will receive in Tallinn Television next week. Several people have approached me with the question of why Riigikogu meetings will not go to night this autumn. Why are there no night sessions? Today's agenda was so short, with just one question that I can explain. Night sittings are held in extraordinary circumstances and this Riigikogu has certainly been behind extraordinary times since the March elections of the Riigikogu. We have had a number of difficult decisions behind us, in which the Centre Party and the rest of the opposition parties of the Riigikogu clearly opposed the government's initiatives. Here I specifically mention excise policy. However, it is not possible to change the decisions taken this autumn at the beginning of the summer. In the public budget, however, revenue is almost balanced with expenditure, largely through the significant increase in excise duties, in particular on fuel, at the beginning of the summer. We have clearly been against the rise in excise duty with the Centre Party Group, and at the beginning of the summer we also planned to distrust the Prime Minister. It is our desire to stand up for the well-being of people, and that is why we certainly have a different view of excise policy. I will talk in a few words about what the Central Party Group has done so far. In 2015, after the elections of the Riigikogu, we have tabled 20 draft laws, 67 questions and 34 written questions, and made quite a number of amendments to the draft laws that came from the government, some of which have actually improved the laws for the people of Estonia. The first draft law initiated by the Central Party Group concerned school lunches. When we were in the government, we managed to legitimize that in comprehensive school and also in vocational school, all children received a free lunch during the school day. Later, it is not safe to lose it, but no extra money has been found, and so today we are in a situation where 78 cents cannot afford children a decent, full school lunch. The Centre Party's proposal was to increase the allowance for school lunch at least in such a way as to withstand the price increases that have taken place over the last six years. This bill is still in the drawer of the respective committee, it has not been voted out, but the necessary money has not been found in the budget for next year either. I will mention another bill in which the government does not dare to oppose and says that the idea is good, but the initiator is wrong. This is a proposal to exempt from the special preferential tax the employer's expenses directly related to the costs of the employee's or servant's activities in sport, up to a maximum of EUR 500 per calendar year. This is a typical example where all departments of government praise the idea in words, but the initiator has been wrong. We stood up for the health of the elderly with this proposal, which would allow pensioners who do not need prothetic treatment and dental prosthetic treatment to use the amount for prosthetic treatment of their teeth. We are talking about EUR 255.65, and our proposal was that it could also be used for dental care. Or we are talking about a draft excise duty, in which we are completely different from the government. If the government raises excise duties and hopes that this will lead to price increases, then the Centre Party has initiated a bill which has been discussed here in the Chamber of Riigikogu, according to which we should not impose excise duties four and a half times the minimum rate of the European Union for at least electric excise duty. We know that more than 70% of the price of electricity is the cost of electricity generation and network charges and, intentionally, the levying of state taxes is an 'additional levy', an electricity tax in the budget. We have also thought about the municipalities, that if the state imposes obligations on cities and municipalities, then the necessary state resources must also be found. So if you are in the opposition, you can do a lot of things, you can draw attention to issues that need to be resolved. Unfortunately, today's three-party government union is still characterised by a road roll policy in which the good ideas of the wrong initiator are not supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U33	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U34	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I'm still talking about education. Wage increases in education, teachers' pay increases are still in question today. I mean, the question mark is the one who gets paid, who's teachers. Very many inquiries have been made and very many zero replies or answers have been received. Teacher is undefined, teacher development sequence is undefined, career paths are undefined. The ranks have been lost, but there is no career ladder. They say that teachers' pay comes from the investment line being taken away from repairs. This means that the "current repair" amount, which was already awfully small, is taken away from the school. The wage fund is still at 3% of the total volume. Then it is said that private education must be withdrawn from the financial table, but that there will be a maximum pay for teachers of 1.2%. For the public to understand, this 1.2% of 900 is EUR 9 80 cents. Does this money even deserve to blow each other's heads apart? This is absolutely incomprehensible. So as of today, 23 November, there will be no salary for municipal school teachers in the state budget for next year, and from 1 January there will also not be what comes to private schools. As of 1 January, what happens to kindergarten teachers is not in place, although Holsmer said that the pay of kindergarten teachers has not been planned at all in the budget for next year. So we don't know what's gonna happen. We know we have to fight. We know that we have to fight the windmills, and we have to do it somehow. But we can do it! As Mr. Helme said, we are a stubborn people, we will not stop. So, since I've been asking a hundred questions, I'm also going to put forward a hundred firsts if I have to, about the same things. In conclusion, what I'm trying to say is that when I looked at the "Actual Camera" yesterday, I laughed at the top of my throat, flat. The biggest trademark of Estonia, the airport, will extend the runway, expand its house, start other investments, and all this with a national injection of 40+ million euros. Hooray, live a free Estonia! If Buratino were alive, I'd say welcome to Stupid Land! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U35	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U36	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm also talking about today's news that should make us all think and grieve. Estonia is the red lantern of the Baltic countries with its economy. And please read today's Postman, get acquainted with these charts! Then you will see where the Estonian state is now moving to. Growth in the last quarter was only 0.5%. Now I come to the point that the coalition should, in the meantime, listen to the opposition. I remember fierce battles, for example, about raising electric excises. The Centre Party Group has proposed, either four or five times, that we take excise duty to the European Union's minimum rate, which is one euro. However, it is 4.47 euros in Estonia. Compared to Latvia and Lithuania, there is a European Union minimum rate. All of this has a direct impact on the competitiveness of businesses. Secondly, we will take next year's budget, including next year's tax increases in Estonia. If we have a 14% diesel excise, then only 2% in Latvia. This is a direct input to companies used by most companies in road transport. And that money's going to Latvia now because it's gonna be refueled there. At 1000 litres, the difference in excise duty is already EUR 100. Let's move on from here. We have talked for a very long time about supporting farmers and the need to support them. This is also part of the Estonian economy, which is quite a large and growing part. If we compare Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania again, Latvia and Lithuania will support their farmers and Estonia will be the only country that does not want to support them. And now this is the result, which is actually reflected in these graphs and calculations. This is a direct consequence of unfinished work, which we have repeatedly pointed out, but there is no result. That's sad. Now let me give you a particular example. How can the economy develop in Estonia and how can one company be delivered? There is one very good company in Kõlva that employs 40 people. His production goes for export. He's expanded his production, built a new slice. And imagine, now that he has made the first contribution to Elektrilevi, it will take 330 days for an Estonian state-owned company to install a substation there. 330 days! That's a crime. And when I started to specifically investigate how this company was built, it wasn't, my friends, it wasn't possible to find out how the company worked and how many employees there were. Unless you have a contact number for someone to talk to. Finally, through the secretary, I received the number of a person with whom I could speak. He revealed that there was only one person left in the counties who organized constructions. It's depressing, actually! And then we say that we support entrepreneurship and are business-friendly. These were very simple examples that we have spoken about here dozens of times, but we have not been heard, and this is the result. And I can quite confidently say that this budget, which is planned for next year, needs to be turned around quickly with the current economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U37	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U38	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I was motivated by concerns about the safety of all of us, but above all, of our children. The subject is immigration, border surveillance and the fact that we do not actually have enough insight into who comes to Estonia. A much smarter neighbouring country, Finland, with a longer national tradition, has proposed to temporarily re-establish control at the Schengen borders. This is not a proposal to break up the Schengen area, to sink the European Union, but it is a wise proposal to create an overview of what is happening in Europe, who has reached Europe, where these people are moving and what plans they are having. It is like doing an inventory that is needed to move forward with successful management. Regrettably, we hear from our Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and other items that we do not support such proposals. We don't want to stand on the visa tails again, we don't want to restore passport control on the border. These are foolish and irresponsible views that clearly threaten our secure daily life. Belgium, which has received immigrants on a massive scale and has been one of the standards of free movement, has now become a country where schools and subway have been shut down and patrolled by police patrols reinforced with automatics. Let's ask if we want this Estonia. And let's say we don't want to. We want Estonia, where children can go to school in the morning without having to fear that they will be beaten by people of foreign origin somewhere, that they will be harassed or terrorized. It's not racism, it's over security over the risk of being sluggish. In addition, the same people who are now trying to convince us that there will be no risks if we do not strengthen controls at the borders, do not restore border controls and do not impose zero tolerance on immigration have, in fact, led, as has been repeatedly stressed today, to an extremely tight economic situation in Estonia. As poor as today, a large majority of Estonian people have not lived in the last 30 years. This isn't some kind of delusion, and the statistics won't disprove it. It's just a reality. What's it coming from? It comes from long-standing wrong decisions. And these decisions have been made by the same people who are now convincing us that all the decisions they impose on the Estonian people are the only right and justified. These same people convinced us some time ago that Estonia must create a professional defence force. These same people tried to convince us some time ago that visa liberalisation with Russia was necessary. And these same people are now convincing us that there is no risk of immigration for us, and the resulting infiltration of terrorist groups into Estonia. These same people convince us that we must rush to fulfill our allied duty somewhere where we will inevitably be targeted by extremely fanatical terrorists. We are in opposition with such views. We are in favour of common sense, and therefore we will continue to ask our questions in spite of questions if you would like to speak out and convince the public that the government does not have the exclusive right to seek the truth in debates, discussions and the mistakes of strangers, not by learning from its mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U39	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about this most important subject over and over again. This is the subject of education that we have dealt with here in the Riigikogu several times, but usually on an occasional basis and as we did in passing. This year, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has organised a large number of meetings with people, those who work in education, and all of them have great concerns. It is very good that different interest groups meet, because sometimes our Riigikogu documents have the impression that somebody is guilty or working badly somewhere, but it has floated or disappeared somewhere, who is actually guilty. I'm sorry if I'm repeating the same thoughts I've already spoken out of this chair. I believe that our Riigikogu has been leaning towards the path of appearance in recent years. If there is a choice to show or be, it is customary in Estonia to catch a point and a position and prove that we are either five or seven or, I don't remember, among several. And each point on its own is like a goal for society as a whole. What is lacking is a wholesome, normal, balanced development. Riding athletes know that it's of little use to a horse to train one leg awfully strong. Actually, that's not possible. We can't imagine a three-legged rider, because maybe you don't need one leg at all, but our society tends to be that way. We have had major disputes about teachers' salaries. Everyone agrees to the lifting, and it's like everyone's done something about it. But I'm going to tell you that it's meant to be an accountant, according to Excel's table, lifting headlines and numbers from one cell of the table to another, but the content has always been a big deal. In other words, we have promised about a third more in terms of quality, though wages, of the wealth of curricula, if we have strength or how much resources have been allocated for all of this. And so it happens that one blames one, the other blames the other. The state thinks that municipalities are bad masters, but the municipalities think that the state doesn't care. And most of all, there are parents and students between wheels who do not receive high-quality education or at least not as good as they are allowed. We have a completely catastrophic situation in which teachers in general education schools led by municipalities come and say that they must use donations for quality work. It wouldn't be too bad, but if a donation becomes a hidden tuition fee, it's going to be so-called full of our free education system. It is particularly funny that after that, representatives of private schools arrive and report that they could give up their tuition fees, they can do without, but let local authorities or the state pay all their operating costs, which are even higher than in general education schools run by municipalities. And that's how it keeps going from one side to the other. We have battles ahead of us here tomorrow, where the law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school and the law on private school comes on the agenda, and we are in it again. Once again, it has been decided to change the sign a little bit, to say that the amount of the investment can also cover the amount of wages that are missing. And in the end, it turns out that if this change is counted together, everything has been deceived. So I call on all colleagues to think more about education than about investing in Estonia's sustainability and future. Otherwise, our future generations will not understand why we are so hostile to education, Estonian national culture and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U42	Honourable President of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen. I want to talk about a few numbers and not at all about Estonia at first. We take the number 10,000 and look at two of the world's most important power centers: the United States and the European Union. In the United States, 10,000 people are in a lot of trouble. We're talking about 10,000 Syrians that could be accepted into the United States until the end of next year. I would stress that in a year. However, 10,000 Syrians come to the German border every day, every week. Now let's take two capitals: Washington and Brussels. It's peaceful in Washington. In Brussels, the European Union, our major capital, is already in the highest threat of several days. And it gives rise to many thoughts: the same 10,000 every day and 10,000 every year, when at the same time the annual reception of refugees in the United States and the European Union is about the same, somewhere between 90,000 and 900,000. I think it shows something, even though I do not want to sow fear of refugees and draw a parallel here that refugees automatically mean terrorists. I'm a long way from that. Although the presidential candidates in the United States who are now debating use the expression'maroon dogs' and the leader of the FBI says that this 10,000 is already the top limit for the United States of America, that it is not possible to swallow more, to integrate. So you could actually think seriously about Estonia. The fact that Frontex does not work or is toothless, as they say, is that huge holes are yawning on the southern border of the European Union. That the beautiful spring of Arabia has ripened for a terrible autumn. Last week, the Minister of Defence asked us for a mandate to send two Estonian Defence Forces to the Mediterranean to fight a giant hole. I was listening, and I couldn't believe my ears. You could multiply it by 100 and talk about at least a couple of ships. I find it ridiculous to try to stick this giant hole on the coast of Libya on the Mediterranean Sea with two Estonian Defence Forces. Estonia could take the initiative and suggest that what we are talking about here are two. Like I said, let's multiply it times 10 or 100. In order not to get too global, I will also talk about the Setomaa Support Group meeting last week. I couldn't believe my ears when our guests told me that there were 170 Vietnameses waiting for a transition on the other side of the Piusa River. It is possible that some have already crossed the Piusa River or somewhere through the bush. And if they step on Estonia's surface, it is enough to say that I would ask for asylum. This does not have to be done in writing at all, and the whole process is starting again. Exactly the same process that is currently taking place on a massive scale in Greece, Italy and everywhere else. Our PBGB is also helping to control this merry-go-round at the Croatian border. However, as the Minister of the Interior has said here, there will be seven men, one in Italian with a puma, and this is already a 'control'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U43	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! There have certainly been a lot of debates in this and in the previous Riigikogu, which we could pay more or less attention to here today. But I would choose, if I may, one of them, which awaits us this week. This concerns our society very much and will most likely remain, looking at the other very popular points on our agenda, perhaps in the background a little. In particular, there is a very lively debate in the field of education about how to raise teachers' salaries. And the second Riigikogu already calls it the highest priority because of very painful choices. It is sad, however, that, in this context, we do not really see that this is a priority for the government in its large composition or for the Prime Minister himself. Why am I bringing it out like this? Because, in the case of several national budgets, we are in a situation where we can say, in the light of the rise in money, that education is far from a priority, teachers' salaries are all the more so. In education, money is simply being raised very, very much, which we also see in regional policy, social policy and many other areas. In fact, the situation is that the state budget has been divided between sectors in a large picture, and almost every over-sectoral decision has meant that you must somehow explain what one or the other decision has been made. Let me give you an example of the same subject that has been very painfully debated, what will happen to our disabled people as a result of this reform? For every additional funding, we actually have two options: either to find more European resources or to move something around. Similarly, in the area of education, where we are arguing this week whether the investment component, which appears to be technical wording, should be readjusted to pay the salaries of teachers. This means that, in the case of funds allocated to local authorities, which go into teachers' salaries, school meals, "textbook money" and small-scale further training, one line is renamed and moved to be used as a dedicated payroll fund. There will be no extra money for the real local authorities responsible for education. In order to be very simple, I will give you an example of a school. A few days ago, a school principal calculated what all this means for a very small school example. Namely, he will receive some additional teachers' salaries next year, but the investment component will disappear. At the same time, he must take into account that salary is not enough for all his teachers. In recent years, we have had the burden of finding additional resources for the local government as a schoolmaster, private school or the state in recent years. In principle, this means that about one third of the salary money must now be found in addition, minus the investment component. And for this little school, where there aren't many parallels, that alone means EUR 8500. If we take aside the larger schools in the larger county centers, we can see that there seems to be a very simple technical increase of 2,6 million, 1.3% of the salary increase, but behind this small detail is actually that we don't want to admit that we're just pulling the same narrow blanket into another row, but the local government doesn't get any direct extra money. This could be the only example, but unfortunately there is still a whole series of them if we argue here in the Riigikogu, but in fact we constantly raise money within the field. Instead, fundamental solutions such as tax redistribution, economic recovery, etc. could be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U45	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U46	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am only a young member of the Riigikogu, who was often told before coming to the Riigikogu that what is done there is a lot of free time and there is no responsibility whatsoever. But real life has become quite different. For example, in the Centre Party Group, we still have a very busy life, a discussion and a search for contact with voters, and of course they are also constantly being met. In our work as a opposition group, we try every day to draw attention to the bottlenecks in Estonia's life, it concerns the economy, entrepreneurship or how to cope with everyday life. Mr Simson, Chairman of the Group, has just pointed out here the large figures of the number of legislative proposals and enquiries that have been made, not to mention the number of issues that are being worked on in the group. We have looked at the share of the most vulnerable population. These are children, older people and people with disabilities. And in this area, I guess the most important questions have been asked and raised, whether it is compensating us all for the daily cost of schoolchildren's food money by 22 cents, i.e. the increase to one euro, the so-called equalisation of the pension year with the year of work, the remuneration of the work of kindergarten or schoolteachers. We have also raised questions here about the disappearance of the 'Bite Point' TV programme and changes in the procedures for the payment of sickness benefits, etc., etc. We have been on a lot of trips with the group, such as Jõgeva County, Järvamaa and Lääne-Virumaa, and have met a lot of different people, including entrepreneurs, at public meetings. And that is where we hear all the time how people in Estonia are trying to cross over. To begin with, we can talk about increasing excise duty and supporting children with disabilities, as well as many other issues. Recently, an hour ago, members of the management board of the Chamber of Disabled People, who had been visiting us, left the Riigikogu. For example, they were very concerned about the success of the new Social Welfare Act, which once again gives local authorities more tasks, but not about money to carry out these tasks. Once we have visited businesses, they complain about the problems of finding a frame and are very much counting on the support of the state. At present, all companies are teaching their own workforce without any compensation. Unfortunately, VET centres are still unable to guarantee our entrepreneurs a skilled workforce and perhaps it is high time to start thinking about how to compensate for it for our entrepreneurs. There have been very, very many problems at these meetings. I very much hope that the factions of the coalition parties will also go to the counties, meet people and feel the problems that our people are suffering at different levels. And I hope that those members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber today will devote their time, spirit and will to all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-23_U47	Now both the free microphone round, the Monday session and the television broadcast are over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4:14 p.m.
