ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will start the 7th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U2	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Good speaker! On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Hanso, Minister of Defence. The subject is the intervention of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Air Force in day politics. Paragraph 123 of the Defence Forces Service Act makes it clear that an active soldier may not engage in the dissemination of political views during the performance of his duties or exercise the power of command and disciplinary authority in the political interest. On 4 September 2015, the President of the Defence Forces, Riho Terras, spread on news portals and the largest media publications, such as Postimees, Delfi and Eesti Päevaleht, at the opening ceremony of the Defence Forces United Educational Institutions, where Mr Terras said: "In addition to Russia's aggressive behaviour, one of the most worrying aspects is the tensions about refugees in society. One security risk is the blind intolerance of some pressure groups towards refugees. ' This is obviously a very strong intervention in day-to-day policies and a spread of political views towards subordinates. It gives not only a political message to the Defence Forces and the Defence League but also very strong guidelines to take a stand on immigration issues. Unfortunately, this was not the only case, since on October 28, Colonel Jaak Tarien, Commander of the Air Force, announced through a social media post that he felt ashamed and embarrassed about his fellow nationalists who were supposed to have attacked allies in Tallinn both verbally and physically. Unfortunately, so far, there has been no example of a real case that would confirm an attack motivated by racism. This, too, is interference in day-to-day politics. The information based on rumors is based on views that have a very strong impact on the political debate. From this point of view, we are putting four questions to the Minister for Defence. Does he consider the speeches made by the active troops on topical political issues to be in compliance with the law? Has the Government or the Ministry of Defence provided guidance to the Defence Forces or the Defence League to take positions on political issues, in particular migration issues? In addition, there are two other questions that we can read when the Minister of Defence comes here to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U3	There is no further wish to forward drafts or requests for information. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with this in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the election of the local government council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related laws. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Priit Toobal on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U5	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure we've all heard the story of an overactive citizen trying to help his grandmother across the street, even though he doesn't really want to cross the street. Rather, helping him cross the road is an additional concern, and it is necessary to get the right side of the road back. Various studies show that up to two thirds of young people currently aged 16 to 17 are not interested in the good work or the gift that the constitutional changers give them. Rather, they are given an additional responsibility to actively engage in the electoral campaign at a time when, in fact, there are much more important issues in their lives to deal with. Let the choice of education be given, for example. In short, help should still be given to those who want it and who are ready for it. But as we well know, by force in this Chamber, it is possible to change almost everything, and so was the case with the Constitution. Draft 42, which we are about to close, is the result of the decision to amend this constitution, but only partially. The local election law now says that all those who have the right to vote also have the right to stand as candidates. One amendment introduced in draft 42 is that the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate will be deducted, which certainly cannot be accepted by the Group of the Centre Party. The supporters of the reduction of the election age have three main arguments. Firstly, to involve more young people in policy-making. The right to stand as a candidate and, perhaps, to belong to a council and to decide there will certainly help to involve young people in policy-making. The second argument is to increase turnout. Young people's right to apply also increases their turnout, as young people will then have the opportunity to vote for their own age and in this case they would certainly rather come to the ballot boxes. The third objective of the elections was to raise important issues for young people at local level so that young people would remain at home. Once again, I confirm that the possibility of running and belonging to the local council will contribute to this objective. The faction of the Centre Party considers that there is no need to amend the law on the election of the local government council so that the right to vote and to stand as a candidate is deducted. For this reason, the Centre Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U6	Thank you. There's no more calls. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 42nd. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will do it before the presence checks. There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13. I am voting on the draft law on the election of the local government council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and on the amendment of the laws relating thereto42. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 36 against and 3 abstentions. The law has not been passed. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U7	We are going to the second item on today's agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the Member State of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, attention! The trial will be resumed. The rapporteur is Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U8	Hello, honourable Riigikogu. I am pleased to present to you the draft law amending the law on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the Member State of the European Union. It aims to facilitate the return of cultural goods to the country of origin in the European Union. The draft is based on a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the same name, adopted in 2014. The whole reason for this change is that the number of cultural objects illegally removed from Member States is estimated to be close to 40,000 each year and only a few of them will be returned. In fact, the cultural values that have been returned since 1993 could be read on the fingers of almost one hand. A total of 15 claims for the return of cultural objects have been submitted between 1993 and now and only seven of them have been fulfilled. The situation is very sad in this sense. I also note, on the basis of UNESCO and UN statistics, that international cultural goods are the third largest in the list of smuggled goods other than drugs and weapons. It is therefore clear that the system created is not working. The current system provides for categories of cultural goods for which a claim can be made. At present, the focus has been on the most prestigious and important cultural objects. This limits the freedom of the Member States to decide for themselves which cultural property is part of their national heritage and which is not. Categories also set thresholds for the age and financial value of cultural goods. The return requirement can only be applied, for example, to a very expensive painting. However, there is no logic here, because each Member State should itself establish what is important and what is not important as a national heritage. As a result, Member States often opt out of the reimbursement requirement. For example, the Hungarian request mentioned by the European Commission to be returned to the 17th century country sold outside the country for EUR 46000. However, as the threshold is set at EUR 150000, this claim did not prove successful. There is basically no such practice in Estonia. We have not submitted any requests. We have returned valuable icons to Latvia and one icon to Lithuania is waiting to be returned. I would like to remind you that it is estimated that 40,000 cultural objects move illegally from one country to another every year throughout the European Union. A common database will be established to facilitate and enhance cooperation between Member States. For example, if a cultural object is stolen in Estonia, we will be able to inform the other Member States about it through this system. Or if a cultural object is found in Estonia and there is reason to believe that it comes from another country, then we can also signal it in the system. Contracting authorities play a very important role in the legal trade in cultural goods, so the acquirers of cultural goods are obliged to do everything in their power to determine the origin of the object. For example, the seller may be required to provide proof of the origin of the cultural object. If a subsequent procedure decides to return the cultural object and is expropriated from the owner, the owner must be able to prove that he was diligent in acquiring the cultural object. Among other things, the price paid by the person for the cultural object is also assessed. Only in this case shall the owner be entitled to compensation for the cultural object. The purpose of this amendment is to emphasise that both buyers, sellers and intermediaries must be diligent in transactions in cultural goods. I hope that the debate on this necessary amendment of the law will be constructive and effective in the Riigikogu. Thanks for me!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U9	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Just for the sake of broadening my horizons, I wonder if there are any statistics on what cultural values these are, by so-called articles. What is the most in this 40,000 list, and what are the most exciting examples? Are there some valuable books among the cultural goods? Maybe you'll give me a little overview of that list, if you have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U11	Thank you. I do not know how to give you an ambitious answer to this question. But it probably does not make sense that, at present, the cultural goods covered by the current law are only defined as very expensive, very precious cultural objects. The proposed change gives the Member State the opportunity to formulate itself what are important cultural objects for it. So there can't be an exhaustive list. But there are certainly some statistics, and I will be happy to pass that on to the Committee on Culture later.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U12	Thank you. No further questions for you. For the presentation of the Commission, I would like to ask Mihkel Rau, Member of the Committee on Culture of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu discussed draft law 117 at its meeting on 27 October. In addition to the members of the Commission, Minister Indrek Saar and Legal Adviser to the Legal and Property Management Department of the Ministry of Culture Merle Põld took part in the discussion, who presented the content and objectives of the draft and answered further questions. The debate took place in a passionate but constructive and respectful atmosphere specific to the Committee on Culture. The members of the Commission asked the Minister and the Legal Adviser of the Legal and Asset Management Department a number of questions, and all questions were answered in an exhaustive and comprehensive manner. Since the Executive Board of the Riigikogu had not yet decided to accept the draft of the Government of the Republic initiated on 26 October and did not appoint a commission, the chairman of the Committee on Culture proposed that the procedural decisions of the committee at first reading be conditionally linked to the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The members of the Commission were all in favour of this proposal. In consensus, the Committee on Culture also decided: firstly, to propose to put draft law 117 on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 10 November; secondly, to propose to set the deadline for amendments, including 20 November at 4 p.m. and thirdly, to appoint the draft as rapporteur for the committee here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U14	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U15	Another very modern topic has developed and is related to the Tartu Peace and Border Treaty. Swimming with fashion down the river, I'd like to ask you this. We are talking about assets that have been unlawfully removed from the country. As we know, the Tartu Peace Treaty also deals with the removal of the property of the University of Tartu and several other owners to Tsar-Russia, one of the parties to its removal being another country, Germany. Have you considered that this law could finally solve this question? After all, we are talking about occupation damage and the border agreement with Russia. It's as if it's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U16	Thank you very much for your question. This draft concerns the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into Estonian law and concerns the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the countries of the European Union. The Russian Federation is not part of the European Union, which is why we did not address this issue in the Commission. But, of course, the question you have raised deserves full attention, and I believe that we will discuss this issue at some time in the Committee on Culture in one form or another or in one format or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U17	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U18	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear Mihkel! I should have asked the previous speaker, but would this kind of initiative have come on the initiative of Estonia, or are we only dealing with it because it is wanted in Brussels?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U19	Thank you for your question. It is very difficult for me to say what we would do if the situation were different. But, as I said, this draft law has been initiated to transpose the European Union directive into Estonian law, and that is what we will do with this procedure. So in answer to the question of a good colleague, it is very difficult for me to say what we would do if we did not deal with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U20	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! If we are to comply with this law, is there not such a risk that an Estonian museum, such as a sea museum, will be empty of exhibits?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U22	Thank you for your very exciting uplifting question. However, I hope that this directive, on the contrary, will help us to create a better situation. You are proposing a hypothetical scenario that, when the sea museum exhibits are launched, should migrate to other countries of the European Union. In fact, the Estonian state and the National Heritage Board, which is carrying this operation as a central authority, will have considerably better chances of recovering their cultural values.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U23	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 117. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of 117 amendments, including 20 November at 16 a.m. Let's move on to today's third... Is it a procedural question? Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U24	Thank you. I have such a procedural question as to whether, at first reading, the political groups' negotiations...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U25	Yeah, I'm sorry, I forgot! My bad. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Thank you, colleagues. First reading is over. The deadline for amendments proposed by the Steering Committee on 20 November at 4 p.m. shall remain in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U26	We will proceed to today's third item on the agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on identity documents initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaasa, Jaak Aaviksoo, Kristjan Kõljala, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Tanel Talve. I would like to present the member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, at the end of May, the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which includes all the initiators of this draft, visited St Petersburg and also visited our consulate in this city. The Consul-General told us about two major problems that bother him. One has to do with e-residency. The draft on this issue will probably come in December. Another problem is that the period of validity of identity documents is too short. Five years is really a very short time. We discussed it. Everyone had to talk about this in their group. The opinion of the political groups was that we would initiate the draft by the Commission, but personally. Thus, six members of the Riigikogu signed a bill aimed at extending the validity of the passport of an Estonian citizen. The passport would be valid for ten years. The same shall apply to the alien's passport. The bill also states that Estonian citizens under the age of 15 will be granted passports for a period of five years. That's the content of bill 55. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U28	Thank you. No questions for you. As rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U29	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law on Monday 26 October. Siiri Leskov, adviser to the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, was invited as a guest. On behalf of the initiators of the Act, Mikhail Stalnukhin presented the contents of this draft. Advisor to the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, who attended the meeting, noted that the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft in principle. Due to the need to specify the costs involved and other implementation-related activities, the development of IT solutions, the amendment of the contracts with the manufacturer or Gemalto OÜ, it proposed to enforce the amendment from 1 January 2017. In order to prepare for the amendment of the contracts, it is necessary to have such a long period of time, since the amendments entail state budget expenditure, to extend the term of the guarantee and to provide a longer guarantee for the certificates. In addition, the information system used by the Police and Border Guard Board needs to be developed. I was wondering whether the initiators of the draft and the Ministry of the Interior had also discussed the extension of the ID card. Mikhail Stalnukhin replied that they followed the proposal submitted by the Estonian Consul General in St Petersburg. He confirmed that they did not have any objections to the extension of the validity of the ID card, but the opinion of the Ministry must also be known on this issue. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that in order to receive the passport, the person must go in himself to give fingerprints, while applying for an ID card is easier. If someone has ever had an ID-card issued, they can apply for a new one either by normal or by e-mail. Therefore, there is no great burden on foreign representations when applying for an ID card. Counsellor of the Ministry added that Estonian citizens living abroad do not need to have an ID-card, but the chip on the ID-card allows for many operations, unlike the chip in the passport. The lifetime of the cryptogram may not be very long and, since this whole area is developing very rapidly, it is difficult to ensure that ID card certificates last ten years and that the cryptogram is not broken. If that were to happen, it would have serious consequences for our entire e-governance. The most important thing is that identity documents are secure. The representative of the initiator of the draft act added that, as the procedure for amending the law in plenary will begin in November, he agrees on behalf of the initiators on the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2017. In addition, the Commission raised the question of the duration of the identity documents at all. There was an interest in which document Estonia's international obligation not to issue unlimited passports is derived. The advisor of the Ministry of Interior explained that the expiry date of the document is a mandatory element in accordance with the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the ICAO Convention. One Member of the Commission wanted to know what the impact of the legislative amendment on the state budget would be. The advisor replied that if we enforce the Act from 1 January 2016, Gemalto OÜ estimates that the costs of changing the contract will be EUR 365000. If the amendment enters into force on 1 January 2017, then the amount will be lower, but how much is not yet known. One Member of the Commission asked why the current period of validity of identity documents is five years and what practice is in neighbouring countries. The representative of the Ministry explained that five years have been assigned because of the cryptography facilities and that the Civil Aviation Convention also recommends that the validity of the documents be fixed at five years, as this ensures the security of the documents. The practices of neighbouring countries vary. For example, in Finland and France, the passport is valid for five years, in Germany for ten years. In the European Union, 18 countries have a ten-year period of validity and 12 countries have a five-year period of validity. The representative of the Ministry added that we cannot compare ourselves with Germany, where the volume of applying for and issuing passports is significantly higher than Estonia and the cost price of the passport plan is much cheaper. Certain security features are updated every few years. The Commission stated that the main argument was security. It is also based on how it is easier for the manufacturer to do so. This is undoubtedly important, but has it been discussed how it is easier for an Estonian citizen? The Ministry was therefore asked to assess whether it was possible to extend the validity of the ID card and, if so, to several years. One Member of the Commission noted that older people find it difficult to apply for and receive identity documents. He also found that with the introduction of a 10-year period of validity, we would save public workers. The advisor of the Ministry of Interior explained that they would try to make the process easier for individuals, and that in the future it would be possible to send an ID card by post. In addition, it is possible to authorise someone to withdraw their ID card. In the future, an Estonian citizen living in Estonia can apply for an ID card by regular and e-mail. Passport is a travel document, it is not a mandatory document. One Member of the Commission asked for clarification as to the specific costs of extending the validity of the passport, as only the printed number changes in the passport itself and, secondly, as a result of a change in the law for the ordinary person. He added that an Estonian citizen who lives permanently abroad, where there is no Estonian diplomatic mission, must travel to a country where there is an Estonian diplomatic mission to apply for a passport. For example, a person living in Thailand must travel to Beijing, which is, of course, very expensive. Is it possible to conclude agreements that, in this case, the passport can be exchanged through another European Union diplomatic mission? A representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs replied that the information system managed by the Police and Border Guard Board is currently such that it is not possible to determine the period of validity of the document for more than five years. The amendment means IT development, which requires expenditure. The costs of the contract partner Gemalto OÜ concern the modification of the line, the replacement of passports under guarantee and the provision of an additional guarantee for the chip. The planks that are already ready are made so that they last five years. It is more rational not to destroy existing ones, but to adopt them, but they need half the longer guarantees. If a person is issued with a passport for a period of 10 years, he or she assumes that it is operational for 10 years and does not agree with his or her expenses in the meantime to apply for a new document. The Commission member's second question was answered by a representative of the Ministry of the Interior that if a person could not go to another country to apply for a passport, he would be able to apply by post for a non-biometric passport valid for one year. He added that different forms of passport issuance would be envisaged in the future. For example, the passport can be issued by post, which eliminates the need to go back and forth several times. A member of the Commission asked a question about paragraph 1 (2) of the draft. This point states that an Estonian citizen under the age of 15 will be granted an Estonian citizen's passport with a period of validity of up to five years. The question arose as to whether or not the obligation to change the passport would arise at the age of 15. Is there an obligation under any legislation to change the passport in the past? The representative of the Ministry of Interior explained that there is no obligation to change passports. At the age of 15, a person can also apply for citizenship and residence permit. The passport is still valid until the expiry date. Of course, if the appearance changes and, in the case of children, it changes especially quickly, people are often interested in changing passports. The law also takes into account the fact that if a person holds a temporary residence permit valid for seven years, he or she will not be issued a passport with a period of validity of 10 years but seven years. We had such a debate in the Commission. I will introduce you to the letter from the Ministry of the Interior, which was sent to them on 21 July 2015. It was about diplomatic passports. By letter sent to the Ministry of the Interior on 1 July, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposed to supplement the draft and amend Paragraph 24 (4) (11) of the Identity Documents Act in such a way that the diplomatic passport is issued to the person referred to in § 22 (3) of the Act for a period of up to five years. According to the current law, the diplomatic passport is granted to a person referred to in § 22 (3) of the Identity Documents Act for a period of up to three years and is willing to extend it for two years. According to § 22 (3) of the Identity Documents Act, the Government of the Republic may decide, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the field, to grant a diplomatic passport to another Estonian citizen if this is necessary for the performance of the state's tasks and is in accordance with international practice. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs noted that an extension of the period of validity of diplomatic passports issued under that provision is necessary, since, as a general rule, the period of secondment of holders of diplomatic passports under that provision is longer than three years, normally between four and five years. Therefore, these persons must be issued diplomatic passports several times. This proposal by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is considered justified and supported by the Government of the Republic. What decisions were taken in the Commission? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 10 November (consensual decision), that the first reading be closed (consensual decision), that the amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 24 November 2015 (consensual decision), and that I be appointed rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U30	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Why is it assumed that the passport's cryptogram is more secure than the ID card's?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U32	Thank you for your question. I'm not a specialist, but I think it's because the passport is used much less frequently than the ID card. As a result, specialists are of the opinion that the cryptogram of ID-cards will be used more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U33	Thank you. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Commission also mention that if this bill became a law, how much would the Estonian people gain from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U35	We didn't have that calculation on our desk. The only amount that was discussed was how much it costs to print passports. But how much money the population could save, we didn't have that calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U36	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U37	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question is the follow-up to the question of Ain Lutsep. We now have mobile ID and mobile phones can prove our identity at any time and almost anywhere. Most smartphones also have a Near field communication function, i.e. the possibility of paying payments. Why haven't we used it instead of an identity card? Would that be possible, so we don't have to carry an ID card anymore? I personally do all digital signatures with mobile ID, not using an ID card at all. Could it not be further developed so that a mobile phone can be used for identification?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U38	Thank you for your question. The content of this draft is a possible extension of the validity of the passport, i.e. the travel document. The subject of a possible extension of the ID card was brought in by me at the committee meeting. As I said, it is possible to table amendments until 24 November; all members of the Riigikogu have this right. So, Imre, this is your chance, and then we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U39	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 55. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a on 24 November at 5.15 p.m. We have discussed the third item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U40	We go to the fourth item on the agenda: Riigikogu members Andre Sepa, Andres Anvelt, Ants Laaneots, Arno Silla, Artur Talvik, Deniss Borodichi, Dmitri Dmitriev, Eerik-Niiles Krossi, Eiki Nestori, Enn Eesmaa, Erki Savisaare, Heid Purga, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Henn Põlliasa, Igor Gräzini, Imre Sooääre, Jaak Madison, Jaanus Kariladi, Jaanus Marrandi, Johannes Kerdi, Kadri Simsoni, Kalev Kotkaske, Kalle Pallingu, Kersti Sarapuu, Lauri Lase, Lauri Luige, Liina Kersna, Madis Millingi, Mailis Repsi, Maire Aunaste, Marianne Mikko, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mark Soosaare, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Mati Raidi Raitsi, Mäitsi, Mike, Mike, Mike, Mike, Mike, Mikel'seli Särika, Särika, Särika, Erika, Süüüüüüüüsssssssssssssssi Täe, Süsssssssi Täe, Süssssssssi Täe. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests on the balcony! What brings together three countries - Estonia, Malta and Poland? These are the three European countries which, unlike the other large and small countries of the continent, have for years failed or wanted to adopt a national action plan to promote gender equality, a fundamental document that is in line with international law and political agreements. At national level, no attention has been paid to the demands set out in the manifesto of the VI Women's Congress in Estonia in 2014. I quote: 'For the effective implementation of the Gender Equality Act, the Government of the Republic must prepare a strategic development plan for gender equality based on professional knowledge and taking into account the best practices of other countries, setting out specific objectives and measures to reduce gender inequalities in all key areas of society. ' The problem of gender equality is characterised by a very clearly perceived gender pay gap in Estonia. According to Eurostat, the EU average is 16.6%, while Estonia has 29.9%. Despite the prohibition of discrimination, women still earn almost a third less than men. In other words, gender inequality is characterised in Estonia by a large difference in the average hourly wage of female and male workers, i.e. the gender pay gap. To go further, the gender pay gap affects the situation of women and men, both now and in the future, in the form of pensions. The problem therefore relates to human rights and macro-economic issues. While, at present, the average gender pay gap in the European Union, as I noted, is 16.6%, the EU average gender pension gap is 38.5%. I dare not think of Estonia in this context. Studies on the gender pay gap have shown that this gap is influenced by interlinked social norms and attitudes, career breaks related to women's attempts to reconcile work and family life, gender segregation in education and the labour market, where men and women are stereotypically concentrated in different fields of activity and occupations, and discriminatory staff practices. In Estonia, the gender pay gap has been at the heart of discussions both in the Riigikogu and at government level, but there is no progressive development in this area for years. Those members of the Riigikogu who were composed of XII remember how together we voted without any vote against in autumn 2011 in favour of a decision that obliged the government to develop an action plan to reduce the gender pay gap in Estonia. Already four years ago, we felt injustice together in this very Chamber, as well as inefficiencies, because the average higher education of women does not guarantee them the same status as men on the labour market. Let us ask today, four years later, what has become of our agenda for reducing the gender pay gap that we have committed to the government. Under the programme of action to reduce the gender pay gap ending in one and a half months, it has covered 75% of the cost of collecting improved wage gap statistics, a campaign to raise awareness of gender stereotypes, training for officials, lawyers and employers, studies of gender harassment in organisations, projects implemented to reconcile work and family life, etc. But it has obviously been insufficient to achieve change at the level of society because of its short-term nature. The programme should therefore be continued. Equality between women and men is guaranteed if women and men are equal both in rights and in real opportunities at different stages of their lives. At present, this equality in Estonia is certainly not perceived. The reduction in gender inequalities is measured, in addition to the indicators of the pay gap, by a number of other indicators agreed by the EU countries to fulfil their international commitments. The EU-wide gender equality policy focuses on five priority areas: economic independence of men and women, equal pay for equal work, equal representation at decision-making level, ending violence against women and promoting gender equality in external cooperation. As the gender pay gap exists in all Member States, the European Parliament has adopted a resolution containing recommendations to the European Commission, the Member States and the social partners. This autumn, about a month ago, the European Parliament came back to this issue and made its resolution more resolute. Today, the Estonian legislator also senses the responsibility of the Riigikogu in promoting gender equality. 53 Members of the Riigikogu express their willingness to set up a committee of problems to deal with problems that hinder gender equality. The Commission is trying to find out what has prevented the development of Estonia's gender equality policy, the fulfilment of the relevant international commitments and the full implementation of the Gender Equality Act. The analysis builds on the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on mechanisms and standards for gender equality in the Member States and on the European Pact for Gender Equality 2011 to 20.20, in which Estonia has also confirmed its commitment to ending the differences between women and men in the labour market, education and social protection, to seeking a better balance between women and men in terms of work and family life, and to combat all forms of violence against women. In order for the Estonian state to be better able to fulfil its commitments, it is essential that the committee set up examines the state of play of the implementation of the programmes of the fundamental principles of national gender equality policy and makes proposals to improve the situation. It is necessary to analyse the implementation of the basic document on gender equality policy, the development plan for the implementation of the Gender Equality Act, as well as the use of funds for programmes. Thirdly, it is necessary to draw up legislative proposals where necessary and propose amendments to comply with national obligations, including the development of amendments to the Gender Equality Act and the Equal Treatment Act, and finally to assess the impact of the proposed activities and their sustainability. Why do we 53 members of the Riigikogu want this problem committee? I will respond to Justin Trudeau, Canada's new Prime Minister: 'But because it is 2015, the 21st century. ' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U42	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Although my name is not among the initiators here, I basically support the establishment of this Committee on Problems, and that is what I also expressed in the vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You are the author of the idea, and you are also the representative of the party of the government coalition. You mentioned the pay gap as a gender gap, as well as the fact that women and men are not equally involved in governance. Your party is made up of two key ministers for this issue: Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, and Mrs Oviir, Minister for Enterprise. Perhaps it would be useful to start with a political party's own problem committee and discuss bottlenecks first within the party and then come up with a proposal to set up a parliamentary committee? Have you discussed these issues with Mr Ossinovsky and Mrs Oviir, and if so, what suggestions have you made to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U44	Mr Toobal, you had a very good question. Our internal investigation has been made a few years ago. At the same time, your proposal will have a very fresh effect, and I thought yesterday too, that we could make our council next to the other committees of the Committee on Gender Equality. This should necessarily involve young men in your age group. This is essential, and I believe that there will also be very good proposals for this committee, which I hope will work in the Riigikogu with the help of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U45	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am one of those signatories. However, we are talking about a committee of problems that would work through gender issues. That's what I signed up for. But in your speech, you focused not only on the gender pay gap but also on violence against women, pointing out the problems of discrimination against women. Will the focus, however, be on solving gender equality problems or, as you said today on the board, on the problems of women in society at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U47	When we talk, as several political parties that I do not like sometimes point out, of family values, then traditionally the family is at least a man and a woman. In other words, a man and a woman's income is family income. It is a common buffet, and if a woman's salary is low, the whole family will have less money, and that means clear discrimination against families. That is why everything that concerns women is certainly about men. And it's not just about pay. I stress the pay gap because in four years, as a result of our common 'fight' in society, it has become quite clear that the gender pay gap is a problem that hampers the development of the country as a whole. In addition, this social deficit is aggravating our image in the European Union. I understand the undertone of your question, but just as Estonia is globally connected to the whole world, so our men and women are very connected. In this sense, it is the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U48	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have probably calculated how much the formation of such a commission would cost the Riigikogu. If I understand correctly, the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee will also receive the remuneration of the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee. Advisors are also likely to need help. What could it all do?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U50	I am very surprised that this group will be such a very pragmatic issue. I have considered the Free Party to be an open-minded party. But let's talk about money. If the gender pay gap falls by 1%, this will mean an increase of 0.1% for the economy. That's my answer. I would not lower the problem to the level of officials, as you tried to do. This is a problem for society and we are approaching it widely, socially.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U51	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! These problems, which I hope will be the subject of this problem committee, which I myself was one of the people who signed it, are widely known. I have a simple and perhaps pragmatic question. The Commission will be set up, it will come together, you will discuss and map problems. But what's gonna change? Could you give an example of what could really change in Estonia's life as a result of the work of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U53	Thank you, Mr. Iron! If you think we're going to sit in an ivory tower and develop theoretic-academic paper that society doesn't need, of course you're wrong. No! The principles developed make the lives of Estonian people more equal; we reduce inequality. When men's and women's wages converge and begin to respond to the contribution of work, it is a different kind of society. This is a very specific objective. But I can't tell you exactly what's changed in five years. When the pay gap has narrowed, it is a major change because it has actually deepened over 10 years. This is just one example, and you wanted one particular example. Society is becoming more equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U54	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I admit that there is a problem and it is getting worse, but the proposed solution is, in my opinion, a little misguided. In fact, the old truth is that if you want to put the subject to death, you set up a committee, and in this case you are going that way. The Social Democrats are in the government, why is the issue of the gender pay gap not reflected in the coalition agreement? Why didn't you sign it in and deal with it directly at the talks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U55	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U56	Yes, we did. It's written in there. I mean that the Labour Inspectorate will have the opportunity and mandate to monitor this issue. It is included in the treaty as one point on the proposal of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U57	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U58	Thank you. Dear waitress, good Marianne! According to the figures, yes, we can see that this is a serious problem in Estonia, especially the pay gap, which we have one of the biggest in Europe. At the same time, while developing a debate on this issue in society, this problem is being tried to devalue in some way. It's kind of second-rate, and it kind of creates another image. Why do you think this is such a philosophical question? Why is the question of equality between women and men in Estonian society so perceived? Why has it been perceived in the past and in the present, and perhaps it will remain so in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U59	Because equality is not discernible. Men and women are in different positions. It's what women feel they're, like Simone de Beauvoir said, the other sex. There is much to do with stereotypes, which is the most difficult to change. You may remember those six witty clips where we saw ourselves in a curved mirror. These changes take time. But right now, we are simply in a weaker role, both in the labour market and from a social position. I say 'we', that means women, not me personally, because I am a member of the Riigikogu. But when I think about the Riigikogu as a whole, there are only 22 of us and that is one fifth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U60	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm also in the support group, and I've signed it, and I'm all in agreement. But now I'm going to ask you a question like this. The previous Riigikogu passed the Cohabitation Act. In the light of this law, what does the legislator look like? The sex as such is fading.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U62	Mr Sults, do you think that we are going to change genders in the Committee on Gender Equality? My answer is that men remain men and women remain women. But there are problems. I hope you have an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U63	Now it's time for women to ask. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U64	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! The problems of gender equality have been Estonia's bottlenecks for over a few decades. We can say that they have come from another society where we come from. We are talking about this for a long time, also at political level, so that we actually want to be part of the Nordic countries and take a lot of example from there. However, with regard to gender equality, progress is either non-existent or very, very slow. Now, on your initiative, this Committee on Problems is being set up, and I am very pleased about that, but why do you think we have only now reached it? Why not before?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U65	I think of a very good answer in English: if there is a will, there is a way. In Estonian, this means that if there is good will, anything is possible. From this we can conclude that good will has not been very much so far. I'm very sorry and sad about that. But let's at least start now! If, in the previous composition, we were able to propose an action plan to the government to look at what is happening to this pay gap, then now we are going ahead not only with the pay gap, but also with the decision-making level, we are looking at the problems of violence. I notice a good development. I also notice good progress in the media, where a dozen years ago they asked you, and you're not a feminist. This is no longer being asked, and this is progress on a wider scale. But the truth is that it depends on us whether progress is faster and whether we can reach the European Union's family also in the social field, as we stand out as a smart little e-state. This is our image now, but why can't we also be an equal partner in social welfare countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U66	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U67	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When I hear these questions in this Chamber, I understand that only women's issues are being dealt with. Gender equality, however, means that men's problems should also be addressed. Men can also be underrepresented in society, etc. If we look at who we currently have in this area, Commissioner, a woman. In the Ministry, gender equality is mostly carried out by women. What do you see in the composition of the Commission? Are there any men who speak on behalf of men? If we look at the composition of the Riigikogu, there are most men here. But it would be a little difficult if only women were on this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U68	I can promise you that if such a commission comes into being, there will be at least one man there. But I imagine one third could be men. The committee is known to have six members, one from each political group.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U69	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! At the Ministry of Social Affairs there is the Equality Policy Department, we have the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner, there is also the Government's Gender Equality Council, which, unfortunately, was not created for a very long time. I think there's a problem buried here. If it had been created a long time ago, maybe the results would be better. At the beginning of this year, the previous Commissioner convened a chamber to advise him. How do these different institutions, all of whom are dealing with the same problem, cooperate and, in your understanding, work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U71	Thank you. That's a good question. The same question was repeatedly asked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when, as a representative of all of you, I went to explain what this committee could be. My answer was then and still is: it must be cooperation between all of us. But the big difference is that the council and the Council are advisory and not very regular associations. A place where laws can be amended and draft laws can be initiated is the Riigikogu. The legislative power can come from here. It's a strong word in society when we do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U72	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U73	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is, of course, difficult for all parliamentarians to say no when it is proposed to sign in support of the creation of such a committee. At the same time, it is such a very round and endless theme, as a rabbit song, is said. And the name is also very ambitious. Would it not make sense to call it a problem committee for the gender pay gap shorter? And my question, too, is what will you allow at the end of our membership? How much women should be paid in 2019 compared to men?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U74	Thank you, Peter Ernits! Your journalistic skill in asking good questions comes out here. However, as a politician, as well as being behind the press, I would say that it is very difficult to speculate on what has happened to the gender pay gap in four years' time, when only a return has taken place for ten years. That's why I don't want to propose any numbers. I also argue that this committee does not just have to deal with the gender pay gap. However, this must be started because in society this problem has been perceived most closely by women themselves, think tanks and the media. It's got to start with that. However, the gender pay gap should not remain a committee. Once again, at European level, this issue is five priorities, one of which is the gender pay gap. There are four other issues that we have discussed a little less, but they also exist. And it is undoubtedly not only the gender pay gap that is being discussed during the hearings and analyses. This, however, must be started because it is the most acute problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U75	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I am also one of the signatories, but I cannot fail to ask one irritanating question. Unfortunately, under the label of equality, a bit of nonsense has also been done. In Sweden, for example, there are quotas in different councils: so many men, so many women. What is your opinion on solving the quota problem? I would be surprised if one day we were in Estonia in a state where a good male actor or a good male surgeon would be at the door of the theatre, because the quota is full.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U77	I'll answer differently. This is not what I think alone, but what many in our society have said is that neither the Port of Tallinn nor the Estonian Air would have developed if there had been even one woman in the councils. I'm not talking about quotas, but it's a part of thinking about whether the right to make big decisions must be limited to the wearing of jackets and ties. That's my answer. But on the way forward: it is not for one person to decide whether or not to set quotas. It's up to six people. When we get the committee set up, we will hear the ideas of six people there, and the vote will set out how to proceed in the direction that Estonia needs to go. But I'm not ashamed to say I'm not afraid of quotas. We're not afraid of herring quotas, we don't have to be afraid of swamp quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U78	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U79	Thank you. Good waitress! Since I am not among the initiators, I have a question for you as a representative of the initiators. In the explanatory memorandum, you make it very clear that the problem of the gender pay gap is serious, while there is also a sentence that the Estonian woman is doing more work than a man. It's written in explanatory form according to one study. You also say that as women make up half of our labour market, it is natural that they are really involved, otherwise it would be an unreasonable waste of economic resources. Which, then, is your goal: Is it that women do even more work, even though they are already working harder than men, or is it the intention of the initiators that men should work harder? I think there's a contradiction here. You're suggesting that women work harder already, but you want to do more than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U80	Mr. Kissler! I like your question because it allows you to talk for hours about a topic called 'Connecting work and family life'. The claim that women work more than men has meant work as a whole, including what happens at home after eight hours of official work. I cannot say the exact number, but the statistics show that Estonian women are very good in this area. Homework is more on our women's shoulders than on other European women's shoulders. As far as balancing the work carried out by the various sexes is concerned, there should indeed be women in so-called decision-making chambers, be they boards or councils, who are able to mitigate stress and take some time off men who assess risk and adrenaline. So in that sense, it was a very good question, which has a lot of points. It's a good thing I could bring them up a little bit right now. But basically, your question was about reconciling work and family life, and that is an issue that will necessarily be discussed in this committee as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U81	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U82	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! As a carrier of the Estonian tourism and local food support group of the Riigikogu, I would like to thank Heljo Pikhof for raising a very important topic. Men are also important in the context of this bill. I have a concrete example. The top chefs of Estonia, we take 50 top chefs, are predominantly men, among them are few women. However, when we look at school canteens in Estonia, men can be searched there with matchfire. Can some good male chefs set a good example for young people to learn this profession in the future? That's the first part of the question. The other side is that if you have taken such an important draft, what is your concrete plan so that it does not remain another committee that confirms the delusion that the Commission is in place and is in order? Do you have a concrete plan on how to launch this debate in society and involve the general public, so that it does not remain the committee that sits together a few times? Do you have a plan for how the goals and work of this committee would reach the wider public and achieve something more?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U83	Yes, I am among those who think that our committee meetings can be very freely public. And as the work of the special committees is characterised by regularity, it also characterises the work of the problem committees. The meetings are not God knows when, but once a week, if I'm not mistaken. And during the hearings, the doors are open to anyone in this house. As for the cooks, the question was a little demagogic, Imre. Because when we compare wages, the gender pay gap is quite clear. The top chef and chef of the restaurant probably don't get the same pay. And men are mostly in positions that are more profitable. So it's hard for me to tell if top chefs would find their way to school if the pay paid at school were several times higher. But your question also touched on what happens next. If I am not mistaken, a third of the national parliaments of the European Union have a permanent Commission on gender equality. If society has tolerance, if there is an understanding in society that this issue will remain, then it cannot be ruled out that there will be an ever-present Commission. It could be, but it's not for one person to decide. This will perhaps also be decided as a result of the work of the Commission under discussion today.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U85	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As I understand it, under your leadership, we may be moving towards Sweden, which is a multi-country and quota country. But did I hear correctly that you said that only two of the six members of the Commission could be men? We have the opposite story in this hall. I'm a little distracted. Do you think it is normal that you want to set up a Committee on Gender Equality with only two men?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U86	Peter Ernits, I'm still impressed with your questions! But it is, in fact, for the political groups to decide. I suggested that if we look at the gender composition of our groups, we will see that one group is made up of only men. It is inevitable that the Commission will also come from there, a man. However, it would be welcome if another group were to become a male of the Commission. Ideally, it would be the same as in society: 54% women, 46% men. So, half the men and half the women, three and three. For God's sake, that would be a very good result!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U87	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U88	Thank you. Good waitress! In the explanatory memorandum to the draft product, you pointed out the problem that the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment lacks the resources to carry out its tasks. Does this sentence mean that, in the view of the drafters, your committee must request more money, a bigger budget for the Commissioner's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U89	This committee, like all other Riigikogu committees, has the right to initiate laws and legislative changes. If we have raised this problem, I think it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U90	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U91	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm sorry to hear such nuanced questions here. However, I would like to confirm my view that this committee will be formed precisely because of the current general attitude. In fact, people should be rewarded for the work they have done and the values they have created, not on the basis of what a price tag someone seems to have attached. That if there's a young person or a woman, we'll pay less than a man, then more. Equal pay should be our overall target; in the future, we should get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U92	Yes, Terje Trei, definitely! I have to admit, I've enjoyed a little news for a while. I think it was a remarkable piece of information that told us that our start-up company called Skillific news came in on Sunday, starting to assess, based on completely objective parameters, what could be your salary number? One software company I don't know these people is going to deal with this kind of thing. I think it's a small step, but it's kind of a big leap. Indeed, there can be no male or female face at work. When we're at the computer, the computer doesn't really care if the finger of a woman or a man clicks on the keyboard.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U93	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U94	Thank you, President-in-Office. The issue of gender equality also has a very direct bearing on violence in the relationship. Various studies show that the more equal men and women are in society, the more the victims of intimate violence seek help. Is the problem committee also planning to address the issue of close relationship violence on the basis of gender equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U95	Since it is among the five priorities in the European Union list, it is quite clear that we are planning to do so. We also have such a support group, and I am absolutely convinced that the cooperation between the committee and the support group will be day-to-day.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U96	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good Marianne! When you first answered me, you assured me quite strongly that you weren't afraid of quotas. Today, the questioners here have also referred quite a bit to the composition of the Riigikogu. Hence my direct question: in your vision, could there be a quota in the future Riigikogu? And if the answer is yes, then I have the following question. There's 101 of us here. Will there be 51 men and 51 women?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U98	Mr. Milling! You, too, have a journalistic streak. But I am not going on this slippery path to suggest what the composition of the Riigikogu should look like. But I dare say that every year, one woman comes here every time. If we go on the path of evolution, then in the next composition, I dare say, there are 23-24 women instead of 22. If, however, this committee considers that there is something to be changed in the Riigikogu Election Act, this decision is in the hands of this democratically assembled committee. But right now, all I can say is that I very much hope that our Parliament will be more of a face of our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U99	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U100	Thank you, good manager. Good bill counsel! I am skeptical about this. I worked in a room with a man who got 30% more than me in 2007-2011. But I do not think it justifies today's draft; this committee will not move society forward. The society is driven by a change of attitude. Overregulation and enforced standards do not change anything; they may lead to the opposite situation in which more women are being humiliated. Our society should still move along the path of recognition of ability and competence. Can you ensure that this Commission does not engage in over-regulation of society, including the introduction of gender quotas?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U101	Once again, the problem committee would consist of six people who are discussing things and making decisions together. I am one of the 53 signatories and cannot take such responsibility. It all depends on where the analyses that are being carried out in this Commission are taking us, how the social idea develops.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U102	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U103	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, As I understand it, this commission would work for the Riigikogu until the end of its composition. In essence, it will become a permanent committee. Why does this deadline have to be so long? What would four years be discussed in parallel with the government? I understand if the Commission worked for a year or two, but it is too much for the end of its membership. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U104	No, it doesn't work until the end of this term. The bill clearly states: 1 January 2019. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also asked whether this was not a long time. I am also answering you now that in two or three months something that has not been done for years, if not more than a decade, is difficult to do. This job doesn't have content and weight. Very short time may not lead to a good result.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U105	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U106	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I ask Madis Milling a slightly tricky question to continue, but quite seriously: perhaps you can tell whether in some countries the gender equality component has been taken into account in the laws for the election of Parliament and other bodies. Do you know of such countries? A lot has been said here about the Swedish example, but some of this information is related to legends. Whoever is studying the Swedish Code will see that it is not exactly what is said in this Chamber. Do you have more detailed information on how the gender component is taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U107	Yes, it is. The most vivid example is not the Kingdom of Sweden at all, but the Kingdom of Belgium. In the mid-1990s, if I am not mistaken, there was a 15% share of women in Parliament and it was found not to be democracy, it is not in the spirit of Brussels, the capital of the European Union. A cross-party decision was made that the lists should be made striped. In other words, men and women must alternately sit on the electoral lists and each list is exactly as long as men and women can be recorded there alternately. During the two formations, it has been achieved that the proportion of women in Parliament is one third and slightly above that. So a very concrete example is not from Sweden, but from Belgium.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U108	Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U109	Dear Marianne Mikko! Clearly, the issue is very important, but I personally am in favour of reducing the state apparatus. And that is why the existence of any committee must be very well founded. Here I have two questions. The first question: how much really does taxpayers' money go to this committee? And the second question: do you think that a form such as writing a report would not be a better solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U110	I've been answering since the end. This would not be better because, across parties, one person from each political group would be a member of the Commission, representing his view of the weather and contributing to this debate on gender equality, its weight would be several times greater than in the less-thought-out debate. Now the question is how much it costs the taxpayer. I ask how much it costs our society that women's wages are nearly a third lower than men's. I don't think it's a very relevant benchmark. The question is, like, whether we're separating an official for this in our house or whether we're not separating one official. It's a little question. We're being watched over the Internet by more people than we are in this room. I'm sorry, but these aren't balanced numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U111	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Certainly this topic is very interesting and burning. However, I would say that the very good old truth is that if there is equality, there is no freedom and if there is freedom, there is no equality. We're already born with very different talents, different abilities in this world. Who's better in English, who's better in physics. So we're already born very unequally. What the state can do is create a level playing field, creating a level playing field for applying to the Riigikogu, a level playing field for applying to the labour market, competing regardless of your breast batch or brain volume. It is a simple basic truth based on freedom. We're free in this society. It is completely incomprehensible to me to talk about quotas, and I have not signed up to support the quota system. Here's the question. If we start talking about quotas and striped lists, if we start restricting everything like that, then since boys and girls are not born equally, women are more in society than men, maybe the state should impose quotas on families so that daughters and sons are equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U113	Mr. Madison, I understand the temper of your age. But in a more balanced way, I would point out that the explanatory memorandum did not mention quotas. They are the subject of further questions. The goal that I am always trying to stick to is to create a six-person assembly, a Commission where things are discussed together and, if necessary, a vote on whether there is agreement. That's my answer. I don't know how to answer demagogic questions. I can't comment on whether men and women should be equal in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U114	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U115	Thank you. Honourable waitress! That's right, you can't answer that question. There's no answer to that. It is not possible to determine the person's ability or to determine the composition of the boards of companies according to the sex of the person born. I think it's completely unthinkable. As far as the creation of this committee of problems is concerned, all this talk has revolved around equality, but equality does not include a quota system which provides for a certain threshold for women in company councils and state and local authorities. It has not been signed by most members of the Riigikogu, as I conclude from the questions. At the moment, however, it turns out that the quota system is being popularised. Moreover, the Committee on Problems, which will be dealing with such issues, should also be equal in terms of gender, because there will be a wide range of positions to be voted on. Do you consider it right, and as the Commission's initiator, to have three men and three women on the Commission equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U116	Look, if I went to all the political groups, put my hands on my hip, and start demanding that you send this or another person to the Commission now, it would not be democratic. That is for the political groups to decide. It is very simple in your group, but it may not be that easy in other groups, and maybe there are several who want it. Then the people of the group will decide. Each political group has its own internal life and they decide whether to send a male or a female representative to the Commission. Precepts cannot be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U117	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now, as a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask Mr Anvelt, Member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U118	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Monday 26 October. a. All the members of the committee and Marianne Mikko were present as the representative of the draft author. First of all, Marianne Mikko gave an overview of the content of the draft, also highlighting important points concerning the problems of the gender pay gap perceived in Estonian society. He had quite a lot of statistics to share with us. The pay gap in Estonia is 29.9%, with an average of 16.6% in the European Union. The author of the bill found that it is necessary to set up a committee on problems in the Riigikogu due to all these gender issues. The Commission would start by addressing the gender pay gap and move on to other issues related to gender equality during its work. More broadly, the Commission must help find solutions to ensure equal economic independence for women and men, equal pay for the same or equal work, equality also at decision-making level, equal dignity and integrity of the individual and the cessation of gender-based violence. Given that women make up half of our workforce, it is natural that they actually work, as has already been brought out here. Otherwise, it would be an unreasonable waste of economic resources. The Commission's mandate set up would last until 1 January 2019 in accordance with the proposed draft. At the end of the report, several members of the Commission asked for a comment on the deadline for the end of the work of the committee of concern. The opinion was expressed as to whether it would not be reasonable to set the date of the end of the current term of office, i.e. the issue committee that has now been set up would complete its work together with the rest of Parliament. At the same time, it was asked whether three and a half years were justified, perhaps it was real that the work would be completed earlier than 1 January 2019. Compared to other committees of inquiry and concern, this deadline is longer than usual. The draft decision explained that the Commission's work must not become an instrument of an election campaign. However, this work cannot be done in two or three months. Since the negative trend has been going on for more than ten years, it will take quite a lot of time for the representatives of the six groups to process the materials, analyse the current state of play and make proposals. The aim is not just to draw up a single document, but to write down concrete proposals and solutions to the situation in the final document. The final conclusion must be of sound structure, strategic, quality and substance. The representative confirmed that he is cooperative and ready to discuss the deadline. One Member of the Commission was interested in how cooperation with representatives of the executive, such as the Commissioner for Equality, who works in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was planned. The author replied that there would certainly be constructive cooperation, as the issue concerns the country as a whole. From mid-May 2016 to mid-November, Estonia is the Presidency of the Council of Europe and one of the three priorities is gender equality. Among other things, there are plans to invite various female organisations to the hearings. The problem committee will be able to obtain the necessary information from the executive authorities for work, discuss the matters falling within the scope of ministerial administration at meetings, including ministers and other officials from government agencies. In order for the state to be able to ensure equality between women and men, it is essential that the legislator and the executive power cooperate closely. Estonia is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union from January to June 2018. In everything that concerns technologies, including IT solutions, we are at the forefront of Europe, but when we look at the social sphere, we are unfortunately among the latter. The meeting also drew attention to linguistic nuances. One Member of the Commission gave an example of point 4 of the draft decision, which states that it is up to the Commission to assess the impact and sustainability of the activities to be carried out. He did not understand the statement, for it does not clearly reveal what activities are being carried out by whom and what impact is being made. The author admitted that the wording might be somewhat inaccurate. However, since this is a committee of problems to tackle gender equality issues, the issue is gender equality. The context understands that we are talking about development plans and their impact on gender equality. It is also clear that the text of the draft text can be improved if necessary after the first reading. The members of the committee wanted to know what the committee is in the Riigikogu. It was also asked to clarify what is specifically meant by gender equality at all and what is the meaning of the word 'equality at decision-making level', which is its legal definition and does it refer to the level of decision-making only in the public sector? The author of the bill thought that the commission could be the Committee on Social Affairs, although gender equality could be a topic for a number of other committees. In addition, Marianne Mikko explained that gender equality must be interpreted in accordance with the Constitution. Equality is guaranteed when women and men are equal both in rights and in real opportunities at different stages of their lives. Equality at decision-making level means that if the ratio of men and women in Estonia were taken, there would be not nine men in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs but five women and four men in the Committee on Equality. At the decision-making level, the picture must be as it is in society as a whole. One sex must not dominate. However, it was difficult for Marianne Mikko to propose how in-depth a committee consisting of representatives of six groups would go to the investigation, because it is up to these people to decide when they have started working. One Member of the Commission wondered whether the decisions taken by the committee of concern should be by consensus or not. After all, there are representatives of different groups whose political views are different. The promoter of the bill said that the decisions are consensual and that they are being sought through cooperation and negotiation, not by force. A member of the committee asked for a draft on point 4, which says that the committee will forward its proposals to the Riigikogu in accordance with the examination of the problems and the final report on the termination of its activities. The question arose whether, in the meantime, there would also be mid-term reviews where solutions would be proposed, or whether it would have to wait three years to get an overview. The author's representative replied that this issue was justified in every way. Once the Committee on Problems has been set up, it is not just a theoretically discussing academic body, but a committee that also proposes solutions and, if necessary, initiates legislative proposals. The Commission is on the agenda and, if there are new points of concern in the field of gender equality in society that need to be addressed, the Commission will do so either by initiating a draft law or by other means. The councillor explained that according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft may be submitted or initiated by the Riigikogu commission; the law does not prohibit this right for problem committees. Marianne Mikko pointed out that one third of the national parliaments of the European Union had a permanent Commission for Gender Equality. In view of the wide scope of the problem in Estonia, one might wonder if such a permanent commission would be needed in Estonia. The Commission also discussed whether the problems of gender equality could not really be solved in a certain period of time but lasted. It is possible, for example, to set up sub-committees of the Social Committee dealing with gender equality in the longer term. The author's representative did not object and felt that the idea was worth considering. That concludes the Commission's discussion and takes procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 10 November (consensus), that the first reading be closed (also by consensus), that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 24 November and that Mr Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U119	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U120	Dear waitress, When I left this Riigikogu in 2003, there was no institution in the Rules of Procedure Act and I have no personal experience in this regard. Could you tell me if there have been any committees of concern over these years, or if this is the first time? If so, what has been the result? Has such an experiment justified itself or rather the contrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U121	Thank you. We did not discuss this directly in the Commission, but my historical memory as a politician dates back to 2011, and when I arrived in this Chamber, there were already problem committees. And as a political enthusiast, I followed these questions through the media before, and if I am not mistaken, here has been the work of the problem committee on HIV prevention, so forgive me if I said the name wrong! This was led by Mrs. Kalikova. It must have been working in the last decade. As far as I've heard, his actions were of great use. There was also a change in attitude in society, especially in injecting drug users, and the prevention of HIV started to be taken more seriously. I also remember from my earlier days of police work that even the change of syringe in the population caused the problem of why we should support it with taxpayers' money. I may be utreating, but after the action of this committee and the discussion of the AIDS issue in society at large, the attitude has changed. We can actually see that the problem of our injectable drug users has not resolved, but that the spread of disease through syringes, including different forms of hepatitis, HIV and AIDS, has certainly decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U122	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U123	Thank you. My second question is that, if I am not very wrong, our Rules of Procedure provide for four different types of committees in the Riigikogu. Can you tell me whether this committee of concern has any significant legal difference from other types of committees? I am thinking of the Commission's rights or obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U124	Thank you. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, we really do have four types of committees, as you said. There are permanent committees whose work is based on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, and special committees whose work is based on other laws. An example is the Anti-Corruption Act, which established the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu. The problem committees are formed on the initiative of the Riigikogu itself with the approval of the same large hall. The fourth category is the committees of inquiry. The biggest difference between all of them is perhaps that one provision applies to the committee of inquiry, although it is theoretical and, having itself been a member of several committees of inquiry, I know that its application may be problematic in relation to the application of a sanction if someone refuses to contribute to the work of the committee of inquiry. This caused problems, as far as I know, for example, to the Commission which investigated the VEB Fund, but maybe it has been before. It was in the previous composition that one time. There are no other differences in the rights and obligations of the committees, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U125	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, Estonian Conservative People's Party. Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party Group supported the draft as a whole, but after today's presentation, we have had some reservations. We feel like we've been sold like a pig in a bag. First of all, we were talking about fighting the pay gap. We fully agree that this problem exists in Estonia and needs to be resolved. However, we do not believe that people are equal to one, we believe in equality. This means that we should have the same opportunities to exercise ourselves in life, not the same results as possible. It's this, let's say, philosophical discussion of two completely different positions. Now, as has been pointed out repeatedly, we have this group of fully-fledged alphas, no women. The problem is not that our party is anti-feminine. Not at all. When we put together our electoral list, we also specifically proposed to apply to the female members of our party and also offered them very high places which, based on the final election result, would guarantee their entry into the Riigikogu. The problem is that there were no women in our party with such ambition. Several of them said they'd rather do the work they're doing now. And several women have confirmed that they do not want to come down to the front line of politics, and a different calling is needed for this. I have four children, three of them daughters. I have two sisters, or actually three sisters. I see good women every day. I see them not only working but also having a decent degree. And, of course, they also do homework. Men come home from work and sit behind the TV, women start cleaning and cooking. This is the traditional distribution of gender roles in Estonia. However, I think that, in the context of this draft, too, we should realise that different sexes, men and women, will never be equal, but will complement each other: one will do one thing that the other cannot do, and the other will do another thing that the first cannot or cannot or does not want to do. Our aim should not be to incite men's hatred based on the feminist ideology of fighting, but to open up opportunities for good, hardworking, decent and highly educated women in Estonia so that they can exercise themselves. In fact, I very much stress that there must always be an opportunity to be a mother at home. This role must be given high priority, it must also be economically motivated. It's often harder work than doing nine to five butt lessons in the office. It is a more responsible job in any case. I think that if we throw aside heavily charged ideological and not at all good ideas from quotas, for example, there will certainly be practical and intelligent solutions both to reduce the pay gap and to ensure a more rational distribution of gender roles in general. These are the solutions that should be sought, and that, in our opinion, is the aim of this committee. At the same time, I think we should certainly accept that there is also a'real life'. The current shortage of labour will help to solve this problem if we provide the right input. In a situation where Estonian women are highly educated than Estonian men, the pay gap should not really exist, but it is. And when we find the reasons, it is certainly possible to find solutions. We could support that. We certainly cannot support any quota, striped or otherwise made lists. So if we succeed in seeing that this Commission does not become a feminist punch you promised that it would not happen, then, of course, there is a need to deal with the matter. I assure you that the Conservative People's Party values Estonian women extremely highly and wants them to have the same opportunity to exercise themselves in Estonian society as men do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U127	Thank you. Sven Mikser, Social Democratic Party, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By pushing from the previous speaker, I would like to say that equal results are never an objective of equality. And equal results are never possible even with equal rights, because you are alpha or, for example, gamma or delta, the fact remains that well over 99% of men never jump as high as Anna Iljushchenko. That this committee is what we need, my conviction in today's debate only deepened. It was very interesting to observe how the debate raised issues that seemingly do not relate in any way to gender equality, such as the cohabitation law or multiculturalism. Apparently, it doesn't, but in two respects it does. Firstly, these are all issues relating to discrimination and equality in one way or another. Secondly, these are all topics for which a certain part of the Estonian society and a worryingly large part of the Estonian society in the 21st century thinks that these are fictitious problems that have been incubated somewhere in boring welfare societies and are now being imposed on us. The issue needs to be dealt with more seriously than has been the case so far in order to disprove this widespread misconception. This is what the Commission, of course, although we are talking about gender equality, first and foremost, we need to promote women's rights and opportunities. The problem is overwhelmingly reduced rights and opportunities for women, although this committee may also be able to protect some men. But because of the patriarchal traditions that have developed in our society for a very long time, and I dare say, the fossilised cultural attitudes are, unfortunately, women who need support and protection. Their ability to act successfully in society is less than that of men. It is women who are affected by these sticky floors and glass ceilings for careers, not to mention the pay gap that has already been spoken many times. By the way, just as well, let us admit to ourselves, the law of cohabitation is needed in order to guarantee equal rights for same-sex couples. It is the latter that are currently largely lacking equal rights and equal opportunities. We have experienced two sceptical approaches in these debates on equality here. Those who are in favour of one direction say that we should not regulate. Let's not over-regulate, for God's sakes, let's make it our own, let the values change over time! But they may not develop themselves. For example, in the United States, we recall the Civil Rights Movement, which was launched in the middle of the last century. Then, in several states, national regulations were needed so that black people could sit on the same bench as white people in a bus or university auditorium. Sometimes even the governor had to pry out the door by force to make it happen. I believe that, as our representatives of the people, we should not think that we must not be at the forefront of social opinion, of changing people's values. If it were up to us here to wait until the changes themselves, to drag them along, we wouldn't need a public mandate or a high salary. The second approach is, I would say, even more backwards. This is characterised by the claim that we are actually well, that meritocratia works. If we have an overwhelming number of men in this hall or, for example, in business councils, then we now have more talented, capable and capable men in society than women. I remember this debate a few years ago when we discussed here the European Union's indicative proposal that companies' councils should be tried to balance gender. On my proposal that the country should set an example here, the minister who spoke before us said that the country is setting an example. The state follows this seatocratic approach very closely and put the best possible sons, not daughters, on the Board of Estonian Air or the Port of Tallinn named Marianne. I guess it was not possible to manage these companies in an objective manner. So I don't think we should be afraid. We should be brave; we should dare indeed to set an example as elected representatives of the people. We are certainly not so naive as to believe that one Commission, be it for a year or three, will solve the problems of gender equality. Certainly, we are not even naive enough to think that this Commission is developing an exhaustive list of measures that must be implemented so that these problems can be resolved. This work will inevitably take a lot of time, but none of this initiative is too much. I am sure that our six political groups will be able to send people from this committee to do this thing with the heart, who will really be able to put their finger on quite a number of things that are wrong or worthy of improvement in our way of life, including regulation, in order for our society to be socially fair, to be better balanced, so that women have the opportunities to pursue a career equally with men in politics, business and normal working life, so that it is not hindered by any rocky dogma or, God save it, by the national regulations that remain in the way of time. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U129	Thank you. Peter Ernits, the Central Party faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U130	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm also one of those who signed this bill, but there's a lot of questions. We talked surprisingly much about quotas today. We don't think this is the right way. At the same time, it is clear that a man will never be a woman, and a woman will never be a man, no matter what we do. Really, it's possible to get circumcised, and in a newer society, a father may have a skirt and a mother's beard, but I don't think it's the essence of an undertaking. In fact, the situation is changing rapidly. If you look at the fact that, on the one hand, Estonian women are much more educated than men, but at the same time we have to admit that women's salary numbers are lower on average. Young Estonian women get married on a massive scale to men with so-called dark eyes and leave Estonia. Their peers, young Estonian boys, take a long look at them and have to look for something else for themselves. This is also a problem of gender equality, and I think that such things should also be analysed. At the same time, I am a bit disturbed by the fact that we are focusing on a single pedal: gender equality, although we stress that the pay gap is very important and primary among the five components. Looking at draft 107, I ask why we have not initiated a draft decision here to set up a committee on equality issues of 108 years of age or a draft decision to set up a committee on geographical equality issues of 109 years of age, or why not to set up a committee on issues of ethnic equality. I mean that, if you look at this text, all the points that the Committee on Gender Equality should address would be perfectly fit for the tasks of both the Committee on Age Equality and the Committee on Geographical Equality. This question asked why this committee of problems should act for so long, essentially until almost the end of the work of this Riigikogu, until 1 January 2019. Similarly, we should set up other committees of concern that are equally important. Why do young people have bigger problems getting a job than middle-aged people? Why is it much harder for older people? Why are many of them, and this is not only about the elderly, have to work three years to get one pension year, and accept it calmly? Why do people living in the so-called province outside Tallinn and Tartu have to accept what their lives are like now? Why do they not have equal opportunities to receive services at the same price as those of the capital and other major cities? Recently, we were presented here with a new comprehensive bill on social benefits and services. There are minimum standards for different services, whether you live in Mikitamägi or Tallinn. But when it was asked about funding, it was said that you should stretch your hand towards Brussels. The European Social Fund may give you money to finance one service or another. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U131	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U132	So this is the national view of how these services can be provided in different parts of the country. Now, to sum up, we are, of course, in favour of this bill. Such matters should be addressed, gender equality issues should be addressed, especially the pay gap, but this should not go crazy. It should not be a feminist initiative that will introduce quotas, regardless of how society is actually built up and how it works. But in any case, good luck with this Commission and above all with a sober mind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U133	Thank you. Jüri Adams, Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U134	I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U135	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U136	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I must begin by expressing my traditional thanks to the Free Party Group, which gave me the opportunity to speak dearly, without even checking what I intend to say here, or without making any precepts about it. I'm not talking about the substance of this bill, I'm just talking about the form of this thing. I'll start with the historical picture. When the Riigikogu started in autumn 1992, the first version of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure was undoubtedly drawn up on the basis of the experience of the work of the last Supreme Council. I did not belong there, and that is why I cannot say what was the reason that it was important for the authors of the Rules of Procedure that the number of committees in the Riigikogu be reasonably limited. There were very long speeches on this subject, and in conclusion it was decided that there should be no more than ten permanent committees in the Riigikogu. This ten has not survived over time. They came to special committees, they also needed staff, and it took working time. Then we had the 11th Commission, the Committee on European Union Affairs, and it was found that this 11 was the limit. Two other types of Commission came up later, namely committees of inquiry and committees of concern. Their significant difference from other committees is that they are time-bound, while all other committees are time-barred. For us and for the Riigikogu board, the problem begins with the idea that the Commission is fixed-term, but by the end of the deadline, we will set the last working day of this composition. What is it now? Is this, in essence, the creation of a new permanent committee using a jook scheme? Formally everything is fine, the principle has not been changed, but a new Commission has been completed. We now have to decide whether we are abandoning the principle that the number of committees has a ceiling in the autumn of 1992, or whether we are going in line and freely, bringing more committees as necessary. So far, we have had practice that all these issues, which do not fall under the work of committees, have been dealt with either by sub-committees or by working groups. I, too, am part of a working group that discusses what changes are needed in Estonian electoral laws. We go together and are served by the officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who do not receive any extra remuneration for this. If we go this way to form more committees in a row, then I will certainly be willing to sign tomorrow so that this working group will also become a special committee or a committee of problems. The Board of the Riigikogu must also look at its financial and other possibilities to determine how the formation of such ad hoc committees is compatible with the general principles of the Rules of Procedure and the financial possibilities of the Riigikogu. When Mrs Mikko spoke in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I do not think she was hiding at all by being a very straight and frank person, that her aim is to create at least one permanent committee in the Estonian Parliament. If this cannot be done without amending the Rules of Procedure Act, then the way out is a long time limit for the work. Ms Mikko also noted that such a Commission existed in at least a third of the national parliaments of the European Union. Maybe this is the right decision then, but in this case let us make a new permanent Commission. In my opinion, it is possible to work without support staff for the time being. This is not an area where the Commission necessarily needs a wealth of resources. However, if the Board of the Riigikogu is able to enable those people who want to do this work, including auxiliary staff to help them do their writings and so on, what can I do against it? If the chair of the Riigikogu does not have enough money for this, I propose that we support this group of initiatives from our own pockets. I fully agree to set aside a part of my salary so that Mrs Mikko and her co-workers can have support staff. Let us help them to get their work done faster! However, if we do not want to do so, let us consider the status of sub-committees and working groups in our Rules of Procedure. So far, it has been relatively unregulated and wild. As far as I know, in other parts of the world, this is the way in which most parliaments have a certain number of permanent committees and, as appropriate, sub-committees are being set up, which, in the light of the experience of many countries, often survive forever or more or less forever. Such are the legal questions that I wanted to draw attention to. Because this is not an isolated case, which we are currently discussing, the question is the future work of the Estonian Parliament. The way we decide depends on what we will have: whether we will have 20, 30 or 40 permanent Commissions, or whether we will stick more or less to the current system and find other sensible solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U137	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 107 should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft, including 24 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U138	Let's move on to item five. The first reading of the Bill 59 of Amendments to the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other Acts, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, begins. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Member of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U139	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 16 July this year, the Free Party Group submitted a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. In general, in clear language, this can be called the draft ban on the increase in VAT on accommodation services. It has not been four months since we are discussing this issue again. Why did we bring this up again? What are we hoping for? This amendment was discussed in June in the framework of the so-called cluster law. The MPs in the coalition of the Riigikogu did not have the opportunity to demonstrate their real will. During the spring discussions, several members of the government parties also opposed the rise in VAT on accommodation services, both inside and outside this Chamber. We considered it right now to give all members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to express their will clearly in favour of or against this particular decision, without the question being related to the persistence or fall of the coalition. The draft under discussion aims to eliminate the planned increase in VAT on accommodation services to 14% by 2017. We want to keep it at 9%, as it is now. In our opinion, this will enable the competitiveness and jobs of companies in the sector to be maintained, especially smaller housing facilities in rural areas. Let me remind you of some facts. In our opinion, the law adopted in June puts the sector at risk, which still accounts for 29% of the exports of services. Tourism also plays a significant role in all exports of around 10%. It does not have to be stressed that the tourism sector is closely linked to many other economic sectors: catering, retailing, transport, entertainment and culture. Although it may seem that the entry into force of this decision is still behind the mountains in 2017, there is no indication in reality that the situation will change much and, for example, that the number of tourists in Finland and Russia that are so important to us will come out of the downward trend. Estonia is not the most attractive country in terms of climatic and international associations. We are unknown, our climate is only conducive to seasonal, not year-round rest. Compared to other Baltic countries, Estonian accommodation companies do not have much room for price increases, but according to the tourist perception, Baltics are often a whole. Thanks to the euro, prices are easily comparable. Estonian hotel rooms are already much more expensive than hotel rooms in Riga or Vilnius. Tourism is an international business. In order to remain competitive, 25 European countries have introduced specific VAT features. The tax rates of our immediate neighbours are particularly worth mentioning: 12% in Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania, 10% in Finland. With this increase in VAT, Estonia would have the highest VAT rate for accommodation services in the six countries in Europe at the beginning of 2017. This, of course, is the case if for some incomprehensible reason other countries do not follow the example of Estonia. These data are from the Association of Tourists. It is worth remembering, even though it was also a sad experience of the southern neighbours in June in this very hall. In Latvia, the VAT rate on accommodation services was raised from 5% to 21% in 2009. As a result, the number of jobs decreased by 12000 and the country lost EUR 14 million as a result of reduced income and social tax. In May 2010, the tax was reduced back to 10%, employment increased thereafter by 8.3% and hotels' filling capacity increased by 12%. It was yesterday that the Prime Minister was delighted here on the floor that our tourism sector did not have as bad a summer as we feared. But there is no reason for euphoria, of course. Statistics say that the economic performance of Estonian accommodation establishments is growing significantly more slowly than in neighbouring countries and is well below the European average. I've got eight-month statistics this year. Yes, the number of tourists accommodated has increased by as much as 0.1%. This is because of domestic tourism. The number of domestic tourists has indeed increased by 8.5%, but the number of foreign tourists has decreased by 4.4% at the same time. The number of tourists stays has decreased by 1.6% during this eight-month period. Here, too, there is a similar trend: the number of overnight stays of domestic tourists has increased by 6.8%, but the number of overnight stays of foreign tourists has decreased by 5.6%. So the number of overnight stays has decreased and we live mainly at the expense of the growth in domestic tourism. Russia has, of course, given a particularly significant setback. The number of tourists staying in Russia has decreased by 38% in eight months. The number of tourists from Finland, Germany and Sweden has also decreased. Southern neighbors have come to our aid. The number of Latvian tourists has increased by 13%, but it cannot fill the hole left by Finnish and Russian tourists. To some surprise, the new customer segment, the military staff who arrived in Estonia, will save the accommodation facilities in Tallinn. In Tallinn hotels, they use 200-350 rooms for tourism companies, and their share in the total number of overnight stays is estimated by the Association of Tourism Companies at 5-10%. Today's EPL business page also focuses on tourism. It shows that tourist holidays in Estonia show a certain change. Namely, there is a shorter time spent here than before. Aire Toffer, the CEO of the Estonian Spa Union, has said that the average tourist here is now two or three nights instead of a week or so. According to him, the number of Finnish spatterists has decreased by 39% during the nine months of this year. It is reasonable to draw attention to a fine fact. Indeed, the tax compliance of the accommodation and catering sector is remarkably high, with a relatively low share of companies with tax disruptions and tax debts in this sector. Please note that the Tax and Customs Board has been able to collect EUR 4.5 million of VAT from the accommodation and catering sector more than a year earlier and EUR 8.6 million of labour taxes more than a year earlier in nine months. Is it really wise, then, to deal with this increase in VAT? After all, the aim of the state must be to improve tax collection and collect taxes, not so much to introduce new and higher taxes. In spending conversations, many members of the coalition have admitted to me that if there were known that tax receipts would improve so much, perhaps this relatively unpleasant and unpopular topic would not have been addressed. We have been tried to comfort you here in the Riigikogu that through the area of government of the Minister of Enterprise, the tourism sector is channelled to the tourism sector through various grants. Indeed, such a promise has been made, but the real impact of these subsidies is still early and difficult to assess today. Perhaps this effect will only be evident once the sector as a whole has already suffered irreparable damage. The guardians of the cluster law have also stressed that 14% is a compromise between 20% and 9%, that it is even a response to accommodation companies. I'm sorry, but it's not a serious argument, it's, in my opinion, cynicism. Let's take the big piece off first, then we'll give you a slice back, and this slice recipient needs to be grateful. Finally, I think there is one point of character. It was not fair that 10 to 15 years ago the Estonian state signalled to tourism entrepreneurs that tourism is a favourite industry in Estonia and it is worth investing in. When too much had been done in the spring of this year by searching for sources of cover for the coalition agreement, then the promises of that time were forgotten. This is neither fair nor fair to accommodations. The people in this sector simply do not understand what they deserve to be treated with. In the light of the latest news, there is no reason to believe that the Estonian tourism and hotel business currently taking place in Estonian aviation would have a positive impact. The consequences of this process will not be known until later. For all these reasons, we consider that the VAT rate on accommodation services must not be increased, as it increases average prices and more price sensitive tourists may no longer choose Estonia as a holiday place. Ladies and gentlemen, If a decision has not been successful in this Riigikogu, it is in no way inappropriate or embarrassing if we correct the mistake as soon as possible. So, honourable members of the coalition, please do not vote on this draft lightly out of the procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U140	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U141	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! As a carrier of Estonian tourism and local food association in the Riigikogu, I have met with a large number of representatives of Estonian tourism entrepreneurs and their representative organisations, including those you mentioned here. Most of the facts you mentioned really do come out of their records. You mentioned that domestic tourism has been the cause of the rise in recent months, which is true. But it is also the new contingent that has emerged that cannot be called tourists. These are representatives of the Allied forces in our hotels. Such a system is not sustainable. At one point, they are built with barracks or other accommodation facilities. In no country, soldiers are held in hotels for years, no matter how long the missions are. How can this affect the housing market in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U142	Thank you, dear questioner. As you rightly pointed out at the moment, this has a very bad impact on our tourism market. Surely this trend is not and cannot in any way be an excuse for raising VAT in accommodation establishments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U143	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I like this bill. But the government initially hoped to scrape more than 20 million euros with this VAT 20%. Then there was a compromise and 14% more. This would amount to about 10 million euros of total tax money. How do you comfort the government coalition and the government, where does the rest of the ten million come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U145	Thank you. I note once again that an additional EUR 11 million has been received from this sector in nine months. There is no reason to believe that tax compliance in the accommodation and catering sector and the efficiency of the Tax and Customs Board will be reduced. I'm sure that trend will continue. Rather, in my opinion, the coalition and the government do not take into account the risk that many small housing establishments, even in the countryside, may cease their activities at all, or even what is denied there, will give strong priority to the informal economy and the revenue expected from this increase in VAT will not come. So my consolation is that let us help the Tax and Customs Board, let us support this organisation in its activities and, if necessary, add resources to it, and the money will accumulate in the budget in a fair manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U146	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U147	Good waitress! In my opinion, there are two things put together here that don't really go together. During the summer in Positivus, the hotel room in Pärnu cost 210 euros and the nearby Sigulda cost 140 euros. It would be very difficult to say that this was a market failure. If I drive past the Sheraton, there's nothing depressive about this building. At the same time, there are dozens of homes, small motels and other institutions in the country, which are often the only family income, the only real employers in these small places. In my opinion, the EUR 210 hotel and the small motels are not in an economically equal position. The question is how, with this EUR 210, we can help this small housekeeper, because these are two absolutely different sectors. After all, mostly this major hostess serves on infrastructure and geographical location.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U148	Thank you for a worthy question. If the government were to come before us with a serious draft seeking regional political influence, with some kind of incentive for rural accommodation, I believe that this would deserve our full attention and support.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U149	Good President! Dear waitress, You stressed that the number of tourists has fallen significantly, and you made a clear reference, at least that's how I understood that we had a somewhat wrong tourism policy. You also stressed that tourism is a favourable economic sector in Estonia. But do you not think that one industry, especially a branch that is highly dependent on external factors such as tourism, is simply a threat to the state? Look at what's going on in Egypt. We also know what really made the great Russian empire in the desert a 'one-product' export. The first question: will not the economic problems of our closest neighbours, Finland and the Russian Federation, reduce the number of tourists here? Question two: what do you think if... Can I get 30 more seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U150	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U151	Unfortunately, no, a good questioner. I must comply with the law on the home and working procedures of our warmly loved Riigikogu. You're out of time to ask a question. Good answer, please, the microphone is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U152	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Of course, it is the economic circumstances of Finland and Russia that affect this situation. But if I understood the beginning of your question correctly, then perhaps indeed, yes, I would not mind if the Estonian state, alongside tourism, could develop some other economic sector vigorously. However, I think that stability and unambiguous signals for one sector of the economy or another are also very important. I would like to stress once again that it is precisely this type of signal that the respected tourist operators, you have fattened yourself, will do well and will now pay the state more tax, is not appropriate, is not in any way appropriate, it is not fair. I think that the potential of our tourism sector as a whole is certainly not yet exhausted. So it's not worth sending such bad signals to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U153	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U154	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Because of these price increases, we are always losing competitive advantage and we are losing it to our neighbours. In Latvia, the hotel room is 21% cheaper than in Estonia. We also know that alcohol is considerably cheaper in Latvia than in Estonia. A representative of the Tax and Customs Board said that the price of a litre of wine is probably already three euros cheaper. We know that if there is a higher excise duty on fuel next year, there will also be a high price difference for fuel. How should people be attracted to Estonia if prices do not attract them here?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U155	Thanks to the questioner! It's hard for me to answer for the government. Personally, I think that Estonia and, above all, the Estonian Government, would pay much more attention and respect, I would say, to monitor what is happening in the economic life of the southern neighbours and what decisions will be taken there. Let us be honest, perhaps over the decades there has been such a misthink that we look beyond Latvia. But that's where you should see these little economic tricks, maybe look at them, and completely unashamed to copy them when they work. It should be monitored whether the decisions taken in Latvia have actually been well implemented and then replicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U156	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U157	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You also noted the huge dependence of tourism on external factors. Do you think that tourism incomes, or rather, their radical decline, could not encourage companies to change their business profile? For example, they could start working on real production, not just on the production of money, which is so dependent on externalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U158	Thank you. I admit I don't believe in your idea. In today's world, I think it will be a success to specialise and focus on the development of professionalism in one sector or another, not on the easy hand of jumping from one occupation to another. Reprofiling would be very difficult and would require long preparation. Honestly, I don't believe in the meaning of this kind of action.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U159	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! When I heard right, you said that every 10 hotel rooms were in the hands of mercenaries. Do you have any information that tourism companies are thinking about what is happening in other parts of the world, such as Germany and Sweden, where asylum seekers will also be involved in this sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U161	Thank you for a very interesting question. I must admit that, unfortunately, I do not have such data at my disposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U162	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U163	I will continue on the same subject, redistributing in favour of the countryside. Do you see any options here, or do you just have to come between the government to reallocate the money inside the accommodation sector? In that case, it would be budgetary neutral. Let's just say that there could be some kind of solidarity between hotels in rich metropolitan cities and rural accommodation facilities. Or must the country come between here because the sectoral redistribution is not working?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U164	Thank you for your question. I don't believe in sectoral redistribution. I do think, and I would like to emphasise, that not only in this sector, but at all, we are thinking very little about possible regional policy differences that could be applied in other areas as well. I'd stay on the side of the differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U165	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U166	Good manager! Good waitress! You have certainly studied the VAT side of the entire tourism sector very seriously and intensively in preparing this draft. If I buy a place to stay at the hotel tonight, I can buy food and everything with the same money. Today there is a difference and there is also a difference in 2017 according to the current law, with a difference of 5%. The dining places that offer food next door will have to pay 20% VAT. At the hotel, they are now getting 11% back because their food is taxed at 9%. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U167	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, the accommodation service is still a single whole and it is difficult to bring out this part of the meal from there. But I admit I don't see any screaming injustice here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U168	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is said that the tourism industry is connected to a large number of other sectors of the economy. This town where I come from is Tartu. It has been observed that the number of scientific conferences has started to decline, as some of them are now organised in Malta, where accommodation services are cheaper, or in Riga, for example, which is in a much better position. Could this have to do with this bill, or is it simply our idea or fear that scientific conferences will move away from us in part because of fear of high taxation of accommodation facilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U170	Thank you, dear questioner. On this niche issue, I'm sure you are incomparably more competent than I am. But I do not, of course, rule out that the increase in VAT on the services of accommodation establishments also has a role to play here, although there is no doubt that just as much, or perhaps even more, may be the case here for the poor associations of Tartu, which, unfortunately, contribute greatly to the reduction of this excellent opportunity to introduce Estonia and which is very much needed for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U171	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U172	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As Chairman of the Estonian Tourism and Local Food Association, I firmly believe that this bill should go on, although perhaps it is not yet perfect. I certainly believe that we should not step on the same rag that the Latvians and Lithuanians have stepped on. But there are other examples. For example, as of 1 January 2015, Denmark, which did not have VAT speciality, introduced 0% VAT on all country-coming conference packages with accommodation. So there are a number of options that could be considered. As your initiators, are you willing to cooperate in seeking alternative solutions and amending this bill to find the optimal solution for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U173	Thank you. Of course, on behalf of the initiators, I dare say from here that we agree. We are quite enthusiastic about this possibility of cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, today, I would like to make sure that this idea is not immediately thrown into the trash on an easy hand, but that it works with this idea and reaches an optimal solution. I would stress that we have time for this work, as this decision will take effect from 1 January 2017. We have time to see what's going on. Let's not throw out this bill, let's keep working on it! But the example you have proposed is excellent. There has always been one or another fact in this Chamber from time to time, which it is worth taking as an example from the Danish state. I recall the success of research and development in the Danish country, which we should follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U174	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Kalvi Tõud, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U175	Hello, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, In response to the wishes of our colleague, the hotel owner Kersti Sarapuu, I will try to be very brief. Indeed, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft on 27 October. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, was also invited to the meeting of the Commission. A good colleague, Andres Ammas, gave the Commission as comprehensive an overview of the draft law as it is here today. It must be said, on the basis of Mr Andres's statements, that we were also aware of this issue, of course, because we dealt with bill 41 four months ago. A lot of discussions had already been held and questions were asked at the time, but questions were nevertheless raised in the Commission, which were answered both by Andres Ammas, the representative of the initiators of the draft, and by the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Marek Uusküla presented the position of the Government of the Republic. It must be said that this bill is not supported by the Government of the Republic. That is how procedural decisions were made. We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 November (consensual decision) and rejected (with 7 Commission members, 4 against, no abstentions). Therefore, this draft was not supported by the Commission. Of course, the decision was also made to appoint the Commission as rapporteur, as you can see, Kalvi Tough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U176	Thank you. Really, that's what we see and hear. Let's get to the questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, First of all, of course, I regret that the Commission did not understand the wise decision to make. However, in my view, the aspect of creating a completely new tax rate with 14% in essence has been quite overlooked in the whole subject matter of VAT on the services of accommodation establishments. Consequently, I have a question as to what administrative burden this creates and what arguments justify the introduction of a new tax rate. Is this really the argument for the calculated circa of 10 million euros I don't quite remember the exact amount that should be paid into the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U178	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we did not discuss this at this meeting. But I'm in my memory, and I remember that when we discussed Bill 41, it was a question of whether we could create multiple VAT distinctions. We have 9% today, and now we're creating 14% more. Some Members of the Commission had the opinion that this must not be the case. But we have examined precisely, the European Union allows us to create two VAT distinctions. How much additional administrative burden this would create was not discussed in the Commission. I owe the answer to how much this would create an additional burden on the Tax and Customs Board in euro or in human hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U179	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U180	Good manager! Good waitress! I will also ask you, as a finance specialist, if the committee discussed how this is really about the hotel industry. Is there two VAT, i.e. food has different VAT? Is it that if you buy a place to stay and eat, it'll either be 9%, or it'll be 9%, and it'll be 20%? The same question about the spa when I order a massage or a swimming service. Are these differences actually in place in the tourism sector or are all subject to a single VAT charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U181	Thank you, my good colleague. We did not go into that detail in the Commission. I don't recall staying in a hotel in Jõgeva County lately. I guess you do. But I can tell you that there are two separate lines on the bill at the Ala-Rõuge Guesthouse in Võrumaa: accommodation and catering. I think Rõuge's people are doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U182	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U183	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My previous question was not whether a new tax rate could be created, but whether a new tax rate of 14% is feasible. Since I didn't get an answer to that, I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U184	I'm sure that makes sense. I answered the previous question: how much this will create the administrative burden, how much the creation of this new level in the tax rate table will lead to additional working hours and how much it will cost, how much we did not have in the Commission, good Andres.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U185	Good colleagues, does anyone have any procedural questions? No, it's not. Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kersti Sarapuu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U186	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Kalvi so much for being so observant! Really, I'm starting at one o'clock, and I was afraid that maybe I wouldn't be able to speak. Yes, the rise in VAT on accommodation services is a very heavy burden for all accommodation companies, especially accommodation companies located outside Tallinn. Thanks to the Free Party bill, we are going to process it again. I recall that the government agreed at one late-night meeting in the office of Thursday at the beginning of May that VAT on accommodation services would increase from 2017 to 5%, from 9% to 14%, and this was formalised in the Riigikogu at the beginning of the summer, where opposition amendments were not taken into account. Traveling across the tourist company association and many hotels, explaining what the development of tourism will give Estonia a tenth of its gross domestic product and a fifth of its exports of services, the government's decision is the cause of the economic downturn and the basis for halting exports and operating to the detriment of 45000 people working in the tourism sector. Who's gonna pay for this price increase? After all, 5% may seem like a small increase, but any change in the price will affect the behaviour of customers and the ability of companies to invest. All the more so since the number of Finnish and Russian tourists has already decreased, and tourists from more distant countries are afraid to enter our region. Today, we recognise that tourism has become more domestic, but at the same time we know that, given the price sensitivity of our people, tourist accommodation companies must offer price preferences rather than focus on raising prices. In Norway and Poland, the VAT rate for accommodation services is 8%, in Lithuania and Finland 9% and in Latvia and Lithuania 12%. We can see that, like in agriculture, our closest neighbours are helping their businesses to be more competitive on the market by paying subsidies or keeping the VAT rate within reasonable limits. Although the number of foreign tourists staying in accommodation companies was 240000 on 1 September, which was 1% more than last year, and we can be pleased that Finnish tourists stopped in our accommodation companies by 4% compared to last year and Latvian tourists by 5%, the number of tourists in Germany and Russia has decreased by 4% and 23% respectively compared to 2014. We need to look at the facts. More than 60% of foreign tourists stayed in Harju County, most of them in Tallinn, while outside Tallinn we can talk about 11% in Pärnu County, 7% in Tartu County and 5% in Saare County. What are we talking about about other inland accommodation companies? Yes, inland accommodation companies are most affected by this tax increase. I do not believe in the measures that the government will allow for tourism in the coming years. The government is talking about the Structural Funds and the EUR 6 million that it promises to allocate. Experience so far shows that even fairs are unable to market our accommodation companies without having to put quite a lot of money into their participation. Even less, I see the possibility of investing with euro money in domestic Estonian tourism business. A simpler option would have been to cancel the increase in VAT and, on the basis of a proposal from the Centre Party Group, to replace it by an increase in excise duty on low-alcohol drinks, which would have increased the cost of bottle cider and beer by 12 cents over four years and brought more than EUR 40 million to the Treasury instead of the currently planned EUR 15 million. Yesterday, a letter from each member of the Riigikogu from youth organisations worried about excessive alcohol consumption. I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu are thinking today about developing entrepreneurship, especially tourism as an export article, and support the development of this draft into a law. I'll put it to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U187	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 59 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 votes to 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. Draft 59 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U188	Let's move on to item six. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group begins. Please ask Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U189	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, A esteemed colleague here today said a little while ago that he was surprised and even disappointed that the Free Party was thinking and talking about such a vulgar thing as money. Yes, we are going to talk about money, including tax policy, for three and a half more years. There's no one here to underestimate us. Almost three months ago, on 18 August, the Free Party Group initiated a draft amendment to the Income Tax Act. It has been 15 years since the last major change in the tax system in Estonia, and in our opinion it is high time to initiate a tax debate, forget about the dogmas and analyse whether the current Estonian tax system serves the interests of society or is rather unfair. We believe that today we are at a point where there is an urgent need to change the tax system. Consumption taxes, such as VAT and excise duties, have been steadily increasing since we joined the European Union. To date, they account for almost 42% of the total national tax revenue, while on average consumption taxes in the European Union account for only about 28% of the total tax revenue. Estonia has become one of the highest taxing countries in the European Union. In this context, consumption taxes must take into account that, as low-wage earners consume almost all their income, they pay proportionally higher consumption taxes compared to high-wage earners who can save. At the same time, the share of capital taxes in the tax revenue of the Estonian state is only 7%, while the average of the European Union countries is nearly 21%. So, in summary, it can be said that Estonia's tax burden is unreasonable compared to the average of the countries of the European Union. Most of the burden is borne by low and medium-paid workers and employers. In other words, the current tax regime ignores the problem of low-wage earners and does not take into account the relative poverty of Estonian society. In order for the extent of the problem to be better understood, we think it is more appropriate to talk about the median wage rather than the average wage. Half of Estonian workers receive a salary below the median salary, which as of 2014 was nearly 710 euros per month. So, given the price level in Estonia (e.g. food prices have strongly approached the prices of rich European countries), half of Estonian workers have to live in very narrow economic conditions. It affects the quality of life, health, children's prospects and, in its own way, definitely encourages people to leave Estonia. In our opinion, the current tax system is particularly burdensome for this vulnerable target group and essentially produces and even restores poverty. From the point of view of the development of Estonian society, we find it unacceptable that people earning an honest income on a full-time basis do not have enough resources to improve their living environment or use services, even at the minimum. Most of their income goes to the purchase of groceries and utilities. Unemployment is a problem in Estonia, whether it is to be recognised or not. There are certainly many ways to alleviate this problem. We propose one way to reduce wage poverty and, by doing so, to reduce the wealth stratification that is a problem in Estonia. The idea of the draft act is also based on this in the explanatory memorandum, which refers to personal income tax in respect of wages and salaries. I would like to correct one mistake that Mr Sõerd rightly pointed out in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you. Inexperience has been miswritten in the bill, which is exactly what we want to regulate with this bill. Who has read the explanatory memorandum understands that the intention of the initiators of the draft is to deal with only the salary income regulated by § 13 of the Income Tax Act. From now on, yes, we want to address other issues, including taxation of self-employed persons and dividends. But right now, we think it is only reasonable to stick to changing the taxation of wage income. While members of the Riigikogu support the approach presented with the draft in principle, it is possible to make corrections to the text of the draft between the two readings and we will certainly introduce them. Our main objective is to introduce a fairer tax system that will strongly improve the situation of low-wage earners and increase the total income of almost 80% of earners. Such a reform would increase the purchasing power of workers earning less than average wages, bring more money into circulation, and this money in the form of indirect taxes would in turn increase the revenue from the state budget. But the changes we have proposed will not significantly worsen the situation of more successful and wealthier members of society. It is true that our proposal slightly reduces the net wage of 20% of those who receive the highest wage, but the impact is relatively small. At the same time, the impact of increasing the net wage of low-wage earners is very high. In advance, I would like to say that the net wage of high-wage earners and the labour costs of their employers will be changed by our next amendment, with which we also want to come into this Chamber, namely the social tax ceiling. The additional objective of our draft is to encourage employment and job creation instead of social assistance and to stimulate wage increases. There is currently a shortage of labour in Estonia to fill low-paid jobs. Employment contracts with low wage earners are concluded or not, taking into account in particular two figures: labour costs by the employer, net wages by the employee. Since the higher tax-free minimum significantly reduces the tax wedge between these two numbers, we estimate that low-paid jobs will be more easily created in the future, because with the same labour cost the employee can be offered significantly higher net wages. This hopefully attracts the contractor, not to earn a living from social assistance, but to go to work. We hope that this could further motivate young people without work experience to seek employment in Estonia; they should not leave here. So what exactly do we want? We want to increase the tax-free minimum to 400 euros per month over three years and raise the tax rate to 24% to cover it. We have learned that an increase in the tax-free minimum of EUR 50 per month will mean approximately EUR 75 million for the state budget and an increase in the income tax rate of 1% will also amount to EUR 75 million. As I said earlier, as an indirect effect, an increase in the tax-free minimum will bring EUR 400 to the food and essential goods market, I would stress that it is likely that these goods will mostly be produced by domestic producers, in our view hundreds of millions of euros, and will be well received by the VAT Treasury. Part of the same objective as our draft is borne by the IRL's idea of tax refunds for low-wage earners, which became the law in June. However, when speaking at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Head of the Tax and Customs Board, Marek Helm, quite frankly admitted that the introduction of a tax refund system could lead to a number of tax frauds which the tax authorities find difficult and cumbersome to control. In our opinion, the system provided for in our draft is simpler and does not tempt fraud. The vigorous increase in the tax-free minimum we offer motivates us to make legal jobs where envelope wages are currently paid and which are in the lower part of the pay scale. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the representative of the Ministry of Finance also admitted that, in essence, our draft seeks the same objective as the increase in the tax-free minimum of the government coalition. Our draft is simply more ambitious and envisages a different source of cover. People's ambassadors have a political choice as to whether (in our view) they will continue to seek to scrape money into the budget or initiate a tax reform. I'll tell you straight, we're happy when the tax debate starts first. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-10_U190	Good waitress, thank you! Good fellows, it's one minute past now. We will continue to address this item in tomorrow's session and then move on to the issues. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
