ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U1	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Let's all stand up together for a moment and bow our heads in Paris in memory of those who have fallen at the hands of the murderers. We support France! [[The silence of grief.]] We will now begin the Monday session of the 8th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act. In the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U3	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U4	The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party will present an inquiry to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljuranna, regarding the article of the Embassy of the United States of America, which was published in the Evening Paper. Our previous request for the same opinion was rejected by the Riigikogu Board for formal reasons. We are still wondering whether the rules of the Vienna International Convention do not apply to diplomats in some countries. Are they allowed to intervene in Estonia's internal affairs and indirectly accuse the Estonian people of racism. In this regard, we are asking some questions. I will not read these cracks, because I hope we will soon hear the answers from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 19 members of the Riigikogu, I will report the inquiry to the Minister of Finance. The inquiry concerns the exemption from tax on corporate income. As we know, in 2000 a tax reform was already carried out in Estonia, the main content of which was to replace taxation of profits earned by taxation of profits distributed by the company. The purpose of the amendment was for the owners of the company to have a greater incentive to reinvest the profits earned. This should have brought Estonia a new economic growth and also supported job creation. Unfortunately, this profit is not always reinvested in Estonia. It is often the attempt to provide a comprehensive return on loans to the parent company for an unlimited period of time. As a result, we have come to a situation where foreign-owned companies borrow profits instead of dividends and do not pay income tax on them, because it is not formally a non-distributed profit. There is a significant difference between the distribution of dividends and the distribution of dividends. In the case of borrowing, the company does not have to pay 20% income tax. According to the Estonian Express, for example, Neste, a foreign-owned company that maintains a nationwide gas station network, has lent 55 million euros to owners only this year. If the same amount had been paid out as dividends, the Estonian state would have received 13.75 million euros of income tax. In theory, the loan taken from the company will have to be repaid to the company at some point, but the practice shows that the owners will extend the loan to infinity. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister of Finance. We would also like to assess how much money has not been collected into the Estonian state budget due to the exemption from the income tax on reinvested profits, and this money has been granted as a loan to parent companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U7	I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. We will continue with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. We'll fix the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu! The Bureau, in agreement with the National Defence Committee, proposes that the agenda for this working week be amended as follows: First of all, take the seventh item on the agenda of the Thursday session, i.e. the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, to the first reading of the 138th draft on the Wednesday session. Secondly, take the sixth item on the agenda of the Thursday session, extending the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, the first reading of the 16th item of the Wednesday session presented by the Government of the Republic. With these two improvements, I will put the week's agenda to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 8th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 2 against and no abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U8	Let's start answering questions. First of all, the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laas, Enn Esemaa, Olga Ivanova, Jaanus Kariladi, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Mailis Reps and March Sults. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of October, 16 members of the Centre Party Group submitted a question to the Minister for Health and Labour about investments in health centres. On 17 August, the Decree of the Minister for Health and Labour entitled "Modernisation of Primary Health Centres' entered into force. The Regulation regulates the use of European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funds for the period 2014 to 2020 in the "Supporting investment in primary health centres infrastructure in tensile centres, ensuring accessible and diverse first-level services'. Thus, at least 35 primary health centres will have to be built or renovated during the period 2014 to 2023. The objectives of the operational programme shall be financed by a total of EUR 85 million from the operational budget of the action. The Investment Plan is approved by the Government of the Republic through its own arrangements. For example, only hospitals with a hospital network development plan can benefit from the special medical care activities listed in the Regulation, although the purpose of the measure is to ensure that citizens have access to high-quality healthcare. One of the principles of investing in health could be to increase the availability of specialist medical care, especially in our rural areas. It is therefore incomprehensible why not all applicants receive support for the organisation of specialist medical visits in health centres that will bring the service closer to people. On this subject, we have a number of questions for the Minister. I'll ask the Minister to read the questions before he starts answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U10	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U11	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions you have asked. First of all, a little bit wider than the subject. Indeed, during the new period of use of EU funds, there is a plan to finance investment in improving primary health services in the health sector. Speaking a little more broadly, the Estonian health care system and the Estonian people are overly specialised in medicine. Every minor concern that the family doctor should generally deal with at the primary level with his team, the Estonian people tend to go straight to a specialist who is often located far away from home. It's also more expensive for the country. In order to make healthcare more accessible, to improve its quality and to make the health system more cost-effective for the country, appropriate measures are foreseen. This is a fundamental change. On the one hand, we are really investing in the infrastructure of primary health care providers, i.e. figuratively modernising family health centres. On the other hand, it is not just the reconstruction of buildings, but a major health policy change, with which we give the family doctor's team a greater role. In the Riigikogu proceedings there is also a draft law on this subject, according to which the primary level may, even services that are not currently normally provided there should be provided. The family doctor's team extends the rights of a family nurse. The aim of these changes is, as I said, to ensure better and better quality primary health care. On the one hand, it increases access to medical care and, on the other hand, reduces pressure on specialist medical care, which in turn reduces the number of treatments in hospitals. A total of €85 million of EU funding is planned to be invested in modernising healthcare infrastructure and together with the co-financing of applicants, some €115 million will be invested in the first level up to 2020+. Now I will answer your questions. The first question: "Why are only hospitals in hospital network development plan receiving support for specialist medical care in the health centres to be created? Could this not also be organised by other applicants, which would help to improve access to specialised medical care in rural areas? Does the non-supporting of specialist medical care in health centres relate to the long-term budget deficit of the Health Insurance Fund and to the reduction of social tax on health insurance? ' I can answer the last question directly and simply: no, it has nothing to do with budgetary resources. I now answer why only hospital network development plan hospitals, not other service providers, can apply for support to improve specialist medical care infrastructure. The aim of this action by European Union funds is to ensure more accessible and diverse first-level services in centres of attraction, which is why the main task is precisely the establishment of a primary health centre infrastructure. Specialist medical care is not at all a primary service and, in this sense, it is an extraordinarily important issue for investments in health centres. The main focus is on the first level, not on specialised medical care. In rural areas, the majority of specialised medical care services are provided by hospitals in the hospital network operating in the county centres, who in turn cooperate with the hospitals or centres of competence of the large hospital network where necessary. In order to support cooperation between county hospitals and primary health care centres, perhaps our main objective is to invest in primary care rather than in specialised medical care. However, as population trends remain negative in the counties, we would really like first-level, family doctors and hospitals in the counties to cooperate more closely. As a result, we have encouraged hospitals to take the lead in applications for investment in health centres themselves. In other words, county hospitals themselves could apply for money from this measure in order to provide first-level health care at their hospital, i.e. simply setting up a family doctor's centre. In order to increase the motivation of hospitals to deal with general medical care and develop the capacity of the health centre, we have indeed, as a compromise, allowed hospitals to invest a limited amount of the hospital network development plan in the construction of outpatient specialised medical care infrastructure (up to 10% of the total space). This is not directly linked to the so-called main focus of health centre investments, but the idea is to motivate hospitals in the hospital network to be applicants for these projects. It is no secret that hospitals have generally not been very interested in this, they have said that let family doctors deal with their own family medicine. We see that in many cities it is reasonable to concentrate the hospital and the health centre in one place in order to create a better symbiosis between primary and specialist care. Figuratively speaking, if a family doctor sees that a patient needs to be referred to a specialist and researched, then specialist doctors and research are basically very closely available and a person can get a better and more complex service. This is the main reason why investments in the construction of outpatient specialised medical care infrastructure are only intended for hospitals in the hospital network. Our aim is not to create the capacity of specialised medical care for all current family medical centres, but to motivate hospitals in the hospital network to build primary health care centres. The second question: 'All over Estonia, 35 health centres are supported. What are the reasons for supporting only four health centres in Tallinn and Harju County, although there are nearly 590000 people living in the area, or almost half of the Estonian population? ' There's probably been some kind of confusion on a number of levels. First, 35 family doctor centers have an absolute minimum. In fact, we foresee that there will be more health centres to be reconstructed or built, and more can be done for this money. How many more will come, we cannot say yet, because it depends on the cost of each particular health centre project. Now the other side. Only four health centres are not intended for Tallinn and Harjumaa; this is a slightly incorrect interpretation. Based on the regulation, all applications are assessed by the project selection committee and, in the first round, we have just established a safety net for a certain regional coverage. In the first round, we have evaluated the projects submitted in such a way that Harjumaa will immediately receive up to four projects with the highest aggregate value and one to three projects with the highest estimate from each of the smaller counties. According to memory, three projects from Ida-Viru County, three from Tartu County, one from Hiiumaa and two from all other counties. The idea of this first 'choice' is that a health centre should come to each county. If we were to make national rankings, there's a chance some counties are going to miss out at all. Since we want every county to have one health centre, we guarantee a minimum number in the first round: in Hiiumaa, one, in most counties, two, in Tartu and Ida-Viru County, there should be three according to my memory and four in Tallinn and Harju County. This does not mean that there can be no more in Tartu County so that there can be no more in Ida-Virumaa or in Tallinn and Harju County. The remaining projects will be selected after fulfilment of the so-called county coverage criterion according to the overall ranking. The third question: 'Possible applicants have been confused by the continuous amendment of the conditions and requirements during the procedure for the preparation of drafts (eligibility, premises requirements, etc.). Are these problems related to the administrative capacity of the Ministry, the change of ministers or anything else? They are not related to any of these reasons. This is a very large euro measure, as I said, 85 million euro money and the total cost of the project over EUR 100 million. There are quite few euro projects of comparable size in Estonia, covering a large number of applicants and the range of applicants is quite diverse. As a result, we have analysed the subject very, very long, with all stakeholders and tried to reach a compromise on how the objectives of the action could be best agreed. Of course, a number of so-called drafts have also moved around in the meantime, where some criteria have been tried to be agreed, but other criteria have been reached after negotiations with stakeholders. I believe that the regulation that has been approved is a rather good compromise. Of course, we cannot say that everyone is satisfied with this. I guess hospitals would like to invest more in specialist medical care. Family doctors who do not want to be involved in the hospital have some other wishes in the context of this regulation. But I think that this text, which has been approved for today, is a rather good compromise. When it comes to the future, evaluation criteria will also be signed in the coming weeks on the basis of which projects will be evaluated, it will be agreed how many points will be awarded for each criterion and how this will be done. The aim is to open an application round this year. After the applications have been submitted, the Government of the Republic will approve the corresponding investment plan next summer and the first payments from this measure could be made at the end of the following year. However, I recall that, in fact, the eligibility of this measure has been established ex post from 1 January 2014, which means that several projects have already been operational and, if they are successful, the compensation amounts will also be paid ex post. So let's get on with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U12	Questions for the Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U13	Thank you. Mr. Minister! What is currently being done in health care under your leadership clearly shows that rural areas are being deprived of specialist medical care. We can see how small rural hospitals, county hospitals, are greatly reducing specialized medical care funds, and this money is being channelled to regional and central hospitals. People need to visit a doctor far away, with no money being paid. We have not talked about this in the Commission, we have not talked about the state budget, but we read about the papers about how much this money will be cut, for example, in Rakvere Hospital, Rapla Hospital, etc. Do you really think it's important that small hospitals become care hospitals and that specialist medical care should be available in the city? Why are you reducing the availability of medical care, namely specialised medical care?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U14	Thank you. It is not true that access to healthcare is decreasing. As I have just said, the health centres project aims to improve access to health care in rural areas, including the strengthening of family doctor teams. Yeah, I can hear the word "specialized doctor," you don't have to say it five times. Maybe you should listen a little to what the Minister is saying, then maybe you can work it out. The aim of the health centres project is to improve regional coverage, including for services that cannot currently be obtained through general medical care by a general practitioner. The aim is to strengthen these teams in the future in such a way as to increase the choice and quality of services. As regards the availability of specialised medical care in general hospitals, you refer here to a letter sent by general hospitals. Estonia's population is shrinking, especially unfortunately in rural areas, and due to this fact, of course, appropriate health policy measures have also been taken. The aim of these measures is to concentrate more complex disciplines and cases, including those requiring complex and expensive health infrastructure, in central hospitals and in regional centres of competence. It is not just a question of money; it is also a question of quality of service. After all, we know very well that if, for example, a doctor is working with half a load, he doesn't do so much in a year, then doctors know this very well, including the competence of doctors themselves. Therefore, it has moved towards providing services that need to be provided locally. As I said, the first-tier service package is being extended, and this is clearly the aim of these investments. Some of the more complex disciplines are therefore indeed concentrated in larger centres. With regard to letters sent out by the Health Insurance Fund to start agreeing contractual volumes and treatment cases for the coming years, this process is ongoing. Of course, this means that in some hospitals the number of treatments in some specialties is decreasing, but the total number of specialist care is not decreasing. So access to healthcare remains essentially the same. This process is still ongoing, but according to my information, and according to the Health Insurance Fund, the proposed change concerns only 1% of all general hospital treatment cases. As such, this change cannot in any way be considered to be very radical. On the other hand, regional access to specialised medical care in the long term is, of course, a serious issue and it is clear that we need a slightly longer view here than next or the next year. The Ministry is working to ensure that regional specialised medical care is available even after 2018 when the current hospital network development plan ends. There really is a need to make important political choices here, because we know that in some hospitals, for example, the number of deliveries has already fallen below the critical limit, which is not only a question of money, but also a question of the competence of doctors. These choices must certainly be made in the future, and in this direction we are working to agree on the principles of access to regional health care with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U15	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U16	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I promise that I will listen to you carefully, not interrupt and remember every word of truth that you preach in the pulpit, because that is what many people in Estonia are waiting for. People don't care much about your fancy development plans or health insurance disputes, they're interested in the availability of specialist medical care. And there are no particular positive perspectives here. I understand that you are trying to direct people more from specialist doctors to family doctors, even with this new procedure, according to which the consignment note is also required in the professions where it was not previously required. It's not like the number of people in the family doctor line isn't gonna change. So, of course, the line will be extended to family doctors. What do you want to do with it? Or can you confirm that patients do not have to wait in line for a family doctor, suddenly heal?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U17	Thank you. Speaking about the order of family doctors, there are indeed some municipalities, some municipalities, where there are problems with access to family doctors. This is mainly due to the fact that some of the lists have not been found by family doctors. In the short term, it's solved by someone replacing the missing doctors. However, in the longer term, this is an issue that the state's health policy must address in order to ensure the follow-up of family doctors. Access to primary health services is generally quite good; they are available at regional level. While the time for consultation varies between family doctors, generally you never have to wait more than a few days. As far as health centres are concerned, as you are well aware of this second draft, which is in the proceedings of the Social Affairs Committee and the Riigikogu, we are trying to strengthen the teams of family doctors, to reduce the burden on the family doctor a little, and to give some tasks to the family nurse, for example. We also try to complete teams of family doctors with specialists, create specialist places. The model for financing family doctors, general medical care is being developed, so that the service is really accessible and of high quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U18	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a question like that. If the family doctor centre is located on private premises, is it possible to buy the property or building from the private owner or to build a new family doctor centre next to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U19	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U20	One criterion for health centre projects is to avoid duplication of existing health infrastructure sites. In general, we would like to see this strengthening so that current service providers submit their own requests. If they do not do so, additional requests would only come if the service needs were indeed higher. Perhaps, then, we would like to ensure that, alongside the existing centres, the next is not simply created, but that family doctors are concentrated in larger health centres. According to memory, more than half of the family doctors are now in solitary practice, the cooperation of family doctors in larger teams is very little. The aim of the measure is to bring together a number of lists. In order to apply for money from this measure, there are certain conditions: at least three joint applications of family doctors are required in smaller places, in larger cities such as Tallinn, at least six joint applications of family doctors are required. Take, for example, the city of Narva, where there are about ten family doctors. Their reception rooms are usually located on the first floor of the apartment building. The idea is that these ten family doctors come together, apply for money to build a health centre, and then provide services together. The aim is to reduce fragmentation and at the same time not to duplicate those structures that already exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U21	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U22	Good Chairman! Good minister! To continue with the previous answer, I would like to ask that there are many known family doctors who have invested quite well in their practice today. How do you plan to lure these family doctors into larger groups? And what happens when, for example, family doctors say they don't want to be a member of a hospital-led center? Are there any coercive mechanisms, motivation packages, or what will be done in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U23	In principle, the family doctor will decide whether or not he or she wishes to participate in the project. For example, if a hospital wishes to apply for money from a project to establish a health centre, it must show pre-contractual agreements with family doctors who are ready to work there with their list. Family doctors have the right to decide whether they want to participate in this project or whether they want to offer their services exactly as they have done so so far. However, if there is a family doctor's centre where, for example, ten doctors are already working together, I am not going to name specific names, and they want to bring another ten to the family doctors, then in principle this centre can apply for additional funding to expand the existing infrastructure. So we haven't narrowed it down. This application may be submitted by local authorities, may be submitted by hospitals and may also be submitted by current health care providers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U24	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Before you started answering specific questions, you made a general introduction and said such a sentence that the people of Estonia have the faith of a specialist doctor and are ready to travel even further, for example from the village to the city, in order to receive this service. Why is that? Has the state made a serious mistake somewhere, because the primary family doctor system is the foundation of the entire health care system? So where does it come from, whether our people don't trust family doctors or if there's another problem here? I assume, of course, that there is also a question of different funding models, but you have certainly analysed it more before you made such a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U26	I guess there's a lot of reasons. There is certainly one historical reason that family doctor service is still like this for a very large number of people, I do not know how to say it politely, a fairly simple health care service. In other words, there will be some simple consultation, but in fact, the real doctor will solve the problem. After all, a lot of people who deny it treat family doctors in such a way that I go and take the referral and then go to the real doctor, so I don't want him to treat me in any way, I still want to get there to see a real doctor. In some ways, it is understandable that your health is the most expensive, and if there is a health problem, of course, everyone wants to have the best possible healthcare at all. And, unfortunately, people believe that the best health care service in the whole world is what you get from a specialist working in a hospital, not a family doctor's centre. At the same time, I think that our family medical system, which has been developed for a long time, has certainly gained considerable confidence in society. However, we have not yet reached a real goal. A large number of people continue to think that the primary level receives a sick list and a referral, but only a hospital can provide real help. I think it's very unfair for family doctors and those who work with him. After all, we have deliberately trained new family doctors in a special field, precisely so that they can provide a first-level service. Here, the state certainly needs to intervene a little, so that more people's concerns can be resolved at the primary level and that family doctors also have more rights. I believe that trust in the primary level is growing, but there is definitely room for improvement here. When we look at statistics, people generally tend to see too many specialists. Specialized doctors themselves say that they are often approached with things that should not go to a doctor at all, but there are also many problems that a family doctor can solve very successfully without spending valuable time with a specialist.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U27	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will continue the previous question on the side of specialist medical care. Perhaps you will explain in more detail what are the more complex branches of specialist medical care that you are bringing together in larger centres, supposedly in Tallinn and Tartu. And when you said above that the amendments to the Special Aid Agreement are quite marginal, will you reject the press statement that county hospitals are becoming care hospitals, care institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U29	Yes, in the sense that the changes are certainly real, no one is saying that the Health Insurance Fund has not proposed this. But first, they cannot be called overly radical and, on the other hand, they are guided by longer-term health policies. As regards the concerns of general hospitals, I also referred to this in an earlier response, their concern is understandable to me in the context that many county hospitals currently lack certainty about their role in the future, which specialties they will retain in the longer term. Speaking of more concrete examples, the managers of some hospitals understand very accurately that yes, indeed, some specialties move to, for example, Tartu University Hospital or North-Estonian Regional Hospital. This is a generally understandable trend, behind which, above all, we are simply lacking top-level health professionals and, unfortunately, we do not have to spread this human resource in this way. Moreover, as I said, the provision of these services has a complex medical infrastructure. Hospital managers say that the state could in principle agree and say what are the specialties that are still in one county hospital or another in ten years' time, for example, that then they will also be able to look for relevant specialists, namely to develop medical teams that provide the necessary services in the longer term. They must also consider that in a situation where the average age of doctors in county hospitals is increasing and at one point they are retiring, they must be replaced by new people. I think that this lack of long-term certainty can be mitigated by the fact that we agree on the minimum level of services that will remain in county hospitals. It's a little like the one I know from my previous office as Minister of Education. In general, school leaders and rural municipalities understand that the school network has to contract, the demographic trend is simply this, but it is expected that this "minimum" stringard would eventually be agreed, because then they would be able to make plans for a longer period of time. If every year is taken away a bit, it is not very forward-looking strategic leadership. The Ministry is currently working on this long-term perspective. As far as more complex specialties are concerned, I can talk to you about them later, Mr Andres Herkel, a honourable member of the Riigikogu. Here's a page and a half of a pretty specific medical text. I'm not going to read it from this remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U30	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask you about the situation when the family doctor decides to join the health centre and leaves the country or a small settlement with his list. How, then, will the situation of a person who may have had a five - mile [5 km] road to get to a doctor improve, but from now on, the new family doctor will have 20 to 30 km [20 to 30 km]?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U32	First of all, if you look at a document such as Annex 1 to the regulation 'Modernisation of Primary Health Centres', it has been published in the Official Journal of the State, then it contains first-level health centres. There's a whole bunch of them, I'm not gonna tell you how many exactly. These are then places where health centres can be built from the funds of this measure. This concerns not only county centres, but also very many smaller places, the so-called local attraction centres. We also allow the establishment of branches of the county health centre. Basically, we're looking at local governments and counties where the health centre could come. I do not think that it is worth talking about a reduction in access to primary services in this context, because we really see that there could be quite a large number of health centres. Secondly, it may not have been quite clear before I said it, but it will be possible for family doctors to apply for funding to modernise the infrastructure through the health centre measure. This is not an obligation, it does not have to be done, they may continue to provide their services exactly as they have done so far. In the end, however, the lists of family doctors are largely self-governing. So access to primary health care is certainly not reduced due to these investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U33	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U34	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. For a moment, your answers were concerned that the family doctors were not enough in rural areas. You also talked about the need to work so that family doctors would come to the country. How do you think family doctors should be motivated to come to the country, namely in the long term? It's really a problem in all the counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U35	This is, of course, a wider problem. We're just missing family doctors. The main reason is that the specialization of medical students has not been very popular in the field of family medicine, it has become more attractive for young people to be a "real doctor" in a real hospital. It's a little connected to the same mentality that a family doctor isn't really a doctor. The situation is changing a little bit, but there's still work to be done here. We have also discussed these issues with the company of family doctors, and we are trying to move forward in this respect, so that the state supports young people who choose to specialise in family doctors. For example, family doctors, for their part, have proposed the idea that, in principle, a mentoring programme could be set up, which they call an incubation programme for young family doctors. This would mean that a working family doctor who sees that in five years' time, for example, he wants to retire would take the young family doctor, the feeling of learning as a family doctor, train him, and then hand over his list to him. This would result in such a natural transfer process. Now that there is no such system, the family doctor's list will be released after the old family doctor has left. He's leaving, the list's open, but there's no one to put in it. If we could plan these changes a little longer, see that the family doctor is about to leave, and the family doctor is about to leave, then the release list could begin to grow a new family doctor. This would ensure a smoother transition and would also help to alleviate the shortage of family doctors. It will certainly make family medicine more attractive for students as primary care if the team of family doctors becomes stronger and bigger. It is no longer the case that you sit alone in your office and accept everyone with any illness or complaints, but you have a team, you have other family doctors with whom you can discuss matters. There is a family nurse with clear rights, as well as a midwife, physical therapist, etc. on the team. So let's work on it. But what's to deny here, in the coming years, is a large number of family doctors retiring, and certainly finding replacements for all of them is quite a serious challenge.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U36	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U37	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question is a little more general and obviously concerns a more distant future. I mean, the future of county hospitals. The fact that certain specialist medical care may move to Tallinn and Tartu, you spoke, but the question is the networking of hospitals, which has begun, and the future of county hospitals. Can you tell me if and at what pace this seduction will continue in the future? How strongly does the health insurance fund direct it, and can it be expected that, in addition to co-operation in specialised medical care, county hospitals will change their ownership? And how does the creation of a new hospital in Tallinn fit into this networking context? Can you open this subject a little bit wider?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U38	Thank you. The process of networking has indeed begun. Some specific examples of networking already exist in the sense that several hospitals are networked with their respective centres of competence. The state has so far perhaps led a little bit of cooperation between them. Although we have told the major competence centres, the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital that you should bring these general hospitals under your cover, help them to provide a better quality service, including, for example, the exchange of specialists, and agree to split up. The state has also provided some investment money to make the networking process smoother, but perhaps so far the networking process has not been sufficiently managed in health policy. A process has begun in the Ministry of Social Affairs where we, in cooperation with the well-known Viljandi Hospital, try to reach an agreement and formulate the expectations of the owner, the state, what specific hospitals could do, how and in cooperation with whom they could provide services. In the future, we want to lead the networking process a little more by bringing the country as a third party to the so-called 'networker' and 'networkable' and trying to agree on exactly what cooperation is going to look like. The aim is to ensure that the quality of health care improves and better cooperation between centres. But the truth is, now it's left to big hospitals to decide how to do these things better. There's no rush to this process, neither the state nor the Health Insurance Fund will directly pressure it, but the hospitals themselves, and the general hospitals will see that there is a place to work together. Whether it requires a change of legal form or simply representation at the level of the Council, or something like that, is there different possibilities and everything depends on a specific case. In general, however, general hospitals themselves have realised that cooperation with large hospitals is in their own interest, for example, it is possible to bring doctors to county hospitals for some kind of procedure, etc. So the process is moving in the direction that the two centres of competence take greater responsibility as flagships for health care in Estonia, especially in more complex specialties. They have so far done so, they have had more responsibility, but in the future they will also help general hospitals to provide better quality services. However, each case is different, and this naturally requires reasonable cooperation between both hospitals. Artificially, this cannot be done. An agreement has been reached with some hospitals, such as Rapla and Võru hospitals, and several hospitals are being negotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U39	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! How does this picture match the ongoing or planned administrative reform with these 35 health centres? I'm not talking about the extraction center right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U41	I would like to answer the second question by Helir-Valdor Seeder concerning the hospital network in Tallinn. For historical reasons, there is one regional hospital and two central hospitals in Tallinn. There is no reason in itself why there could not be only one central hospital in Tallinn; the two could be connected. If Tallinn plans to build a new hospital, there is no problem from the point of view of the state, it can be built. Keeping separate hospitals in Tallinn has made sense in some respects, but in a large way it has led to quite meaningless competition. According to the services of the Health Insurance Fund, the aim is to compete with each other in developing certain procedures and specialties. Even from scratch, some specialties have been developed that actually exist on the other side of the city. That doesn't make much sense. In general, however, competition at Tallinn level in specialist medical care is not the thing that the state should overly motivate financially. So far, it has been allowed to go freely, anyone can buy any apparatus he wants and start developing completely new services that he has not yet provided. However, Estonia's concern is that the number of top specialists, whether in oncology or cardiology, is very limited. If we start to divide this very limited human resource between three hospitals, the quality of health care will not improve. In Tallinn, hospitals could be laid off in the long run. Now I didn't answer Peter Ernits' question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U42	Can I have the microphone for Peter Ernits again, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U43	No, I remember the question. In the context of the administrative reform mentioned in Annex 1, we have identified the places where health centres can be established with the support of the euro. These are calculated by the study. Here behind is a survey by the University of Tartu, where the estimates of the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs account for the number of patients in a given region, their movements and everything else. In general, this tends more or less to coincide with the concept of administrative reform. The first priority is the county centres, and then there are two or three more attraction centres in each county, the "second-level" attraction centres where health centres are built. Let's say, in Valgamaa we see that there are three attraction centers: Valga, Tõrva and Otepää. If we take administrative reform into account, local people will say that if the administrative reform were to come, it would be wise to make three municipalities in Valgamaa: Valga, Tõrva and Otepää.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U44	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, the great and deep recognition of family doctors who do this difficult and very beautiful work! I am quite convinced that very many people in Estonia will first get help from the family doctor and only then will the next stages come. Rather, the problem is that the emergency department is often contacted even if there is no reason to go there. The aim of this reform is precisely to strengthen the base of family doctors. The question, however, is about the so-called starting allowance for family doctors who start working in rural areas. I don't expect you to know by heart how many family doctors have used this support, but suddenly you're sending me this information. It would be interesting to know how this support has been used, because the same measure now applies to pharmacists.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U46	As you foretold, I don't know the bill by heart, but I'm sure I'll find out and forward it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U47	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U48	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand that the main player in setting up health centres is the family doctor. I believe that in cities and counties, the creation of these centres is different, the relationships are different. I counted, there are 41 family doctors in Narva, and these, as well as other family doctors, have taken large bank loans to clean up their jobs. That's why many people don't want to go to a family doctor's office. Here's the problem, you have to change your office and go to a new place, but they have to return the money borrowed from the bank. What is the Minister's message to those who do not want to go to the health centre for this? And there are also situations in the cities where we can't find six family doctors to set up a health centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U49	In general, however, the concentration of six family doctors in large cities, such as Kohtla-Järve and Narva, is the minimum of all family doctors who work there in six, in fact, I would like more of them to be real. I've been communicating with these family doctors, too. Of course, there are people who are against this plan at all, some who want to take patients in their apartment alone. The message is very simple for them: do it further if you so wish, but there will be no euro money to modernise the infrastructure objects. The interest of the state is clearly to reduce fragmentation, and as a result, we are trying to motivate the family doctors to unite in all ways, also through funding. There are certainly cases where family doctors already cooperate to some extent or have indeed renovated their rooms. In that case, they are unlikely to be interested in the new measure and may continue to do so in the old-fashioned way. But, as I have pointed out, even those who have already concentrated in some groups, for example, five family doctors working together, in the event that they are taking more doctors, will still be able to apply for money from this measure in order to expand their current infrastructure base.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U50	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The plan is to set up 35 family doctor centers. Let me get this straight. They're coming to the hospitals? And then there is the question: is there a plan to increase the possibilities of rehabilitation? I'm thinking that if you do proper rehabilitation, you'll be less visited by family doctors, as well as by professional doctors. Is this question understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U52	Thank you. Once again, I stress that 35 health centres are minimum. This is what we must, in any case, achieve with this measure 35 reconstructed or built health centres. There will probably be more, all of which will depend on the final cost of the projects. Not all of them come to hospitals. We don't have that many counties, and that's why there aren't enough county hospitals to fill that number. But we'd really like a county hospital or a central hospital to take care of one of the health center projects. This would greatly promote symbiosis between specialist care and primary care. As far as services are concerned, Paragraph 2 (6) of the aforementioned regulation provides services to support primary health care services, i.e. we have the first-level services agreed in this new package. Compulsory basic services are, firstly, general medical care or family doctor service, secondly, home nursing service, thirdly, independent admission service for midwives and, fourthly, physical therapy service. Secondary services, i.e. those which may be provided and for which additional points are also available when applying, are pharmacy services, dental care services, psychological counselling or mental health nurse services, occupational health care services, social counselling services and school health care services. In addition, services supporting primary health services include: outpatient specialist care services (internal diseases, general surgery, ophthalmology, gynaecology, psychiatry, otorinolaryngology, dermatovenerology and rehabilitation), rehabilitation services, and the provision of prosthetic, orthopaedic and other facilities. So, in fact, we would like to see more symbiosis in rehabilitation in these health centres that are connected with hospitals. However, the longer view does not even concern this specific measure, but we want family doctors to be much more effective in monitoring patients after a specialist doctor. If a stroke patient now receives his or her specialist medical care in the hospital and then goes to a separate rehabilitation service, then in the future, family doctors would take on more control. Unfortunately, today's situation is that very many of them have stopped showing themselves to the family doctor after they have gone through both rehabilitation and specialist treatment. What's going on with them at home, we don't know that very well. So in the long term, we would like to see a patient-centred holistic approach, where the family doctor is actually responsible for the overall well-being of the person. If necessary, he or she will direct the patient to a specialist, rehabilitation, etc., but the family doctor will be the one coordinating the case, the person should be under his or her supervision from the start to the end. This will require a little more work, including certainly a financing model, to better implement patient-centred case management. All health stakeholders understand that this is needed, but the system still needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U53	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You rightly said that county hospitals are waiting for a decision as to which specialties they are competent for and which specialist doctors will be concentrated in Rakvere Hospital or another county hospital. So who's gonna decide that? And when we approach it this way, is it still in line with our desire to ensure the availability of professional doctors to all Estonian people? Who decides and is it a long-term decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U55	Thank you. The Ministry of Social Affairs has set up a working group of representatives of the regional, central and general hospitals nominated by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the University of Tartu Health Institute, the World Health Organisation and the Estonian Hospitals Association to agree on the development of hospitals for the next 15 years. So it's work in that direction. General hospitals, central hospitals and regional hospitals have different responsibilities. Basically, specializations have been agreed, which each party, or the type of hospital, must provide. Even now, regional hospitals have a much greater responsibility than general hospitals, for example, for ensuring surveillance circles, for more complex procedures, be they in cardiology, neurosurgery, etc. General hospitals have no obligation to do these things. At present, the situation is simply that very many general hospitals provide more specialist medical care than the minimum fixed by the health insurance fund and the state, because they have specialists from the old age, they have always provided these services and they still do so. Over time, this process has taken place in such a way that some doctors have retired, hospitals have lost the ability to provide health care in some specialties, or doctors' burden in this field has remained very low. The current review of contracts for general medical care also concerns those specialties where, for example, the doctor has half the burden, he does not meet the full burden of his patients in the area. Therefore, the agreed minimum is that there should be eight specialties. I don't think I'm gonna tell them. They're written somewhere. I can check it out later. They will continue to be financed. In the case of additional services, which some hospitals have offered more, some less, certain treatment cases are reviewed each year. It has certainly also raised questions about what the future will bring. I think that, in principle, these issues should be agreed on in a longer health policy perspective. And, as I said, the working group concerned is trying to agree on this view.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U56	Fruit Savisaar-Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I would also like to ask you about this established or planned Tallinn hospital. Does the Minister and the Ministry have any idea what level this could be at the hospital? Will he remain at the level of the central hospital, or will you share my idea that there should be two higher-level hospitals in a city the size of Tallinn? They could also have dubious specialties, as two maternity homes are definitely needed by a city the size of Tallinn. Has the Ministry ever dealt with this issue, or is it thought of letting them do it themselves? But we know it has to do with the distribution of the money from the Health Insurance Fund, and in fact, the Ministry should have its say on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U58	I think there are two regional hospitals in Estonia, i.e. the University of Tartu Hospital and the North Estonian Regional Hospital. This then means responsibility for the most complex disciplines and cases. It's not really about money, it's about human competence. There are currently top specialists in two hospitals and there is no point in fragmenting this human resource. We keep top specialists where we can make the best use of their resources. There is no point in starting to duplicate these specializations in other hospitals. This would inevitably lead to over-purchase of specialists. In Tallinn, it has happened in some specialties that someone has been bought from one hospital to another, just bought over with a better salary to compete in some specialty. That doesn't make sense in general. The Tallinn hospital could still remain at the level of the central hospital, but the central hospital also means, of course, the ability to receive births, which is certainly not a problem. However, in the case of hospitals at a higher level, we are talking in particular about the most complex cases of oncology and cardiology, but there are other cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U59	Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour. I'm opening negotiations. The heirs do not want to exercise their privilege. Monika Haukanõmm, please! An extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U60	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! My speech is due to concern that when implementing the health centres project, the state prefers large hospitals to family medicine centres. This means that we will still be in a situation after this project has ended, where the family doctor is still in the role of the so-called referral provider and the right doctor is still a specialist doctor. After all, Estonia's largest capital is our people. Every person in Estonia deserves attention and must be guaranteed security. If anything happens to him, his health deteriorates, he must be guaranteed access to medical services at the primary level, close to his home, and in the future within the framework of specialist medical care. In fact, our family doctor system is the foundation for all health care. We have heard today that by 2023 at least 35 new primary health centres or health centres must be established. To this end, we have nearly EUR 96 million of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) money. The applicant may be a local authority, hospital or family doctor, but they must consider that 25% is an own contribution obligation. This means that quite a lot of money is needed from the start to apply for EU support. In order to submit an application, there must be a property, a precise project, a feasibility and a cost-benefit analysis and a development plan. Therefore, it is also understandable for family doctors to resent the fact that the state prefers large hospitals with both real estate and better organisational abilities, or administrative capacity. Hospitals, of course, are interested in this possibility because they are suddenly receiving additional funding to expand and optimise the hospital's activities. But is it still in the interest of a person to set up health centres in large hospitals if it leads to a service that should be available near the place of residence even further away from the person and weakens the already fragile family medical system? At the beginning of the process, there was a very clear direction to look at where to create more capacity. In time, however, I feel that the focus has changed a little and moved to hospitals. I refer to the interview given by Ivi Normet, Deputy Secretary of State for Health at the Ministry of Social Affairs in the magazine Eesti Arst, where he made it clear that the aim is to link health care at different levels more than before and that if the University Hospital of Tartu, North Estonia Regional Hospital, Ida-Viru Central Hospital, Pärnu Hospital and nursing hospitals previously receiving European Union grants, are interested in setting up health centres, they could get two or three points in the competition. The Ministry has also expressed the view that cooperation between hospitals and family doctors could have the potential to build health centres precisely because hospitals have more experience of investing in infrastructure. But can this be the main argument why we do not promote family medicine centres when we are in a situation where very many of the current family medicine centres need updating? In addition, the promotion of hospitals may run counter to the objective of EU subsidies, which are intended to strengthen family medical care, not to improve the hospital network or to invest in concrete, but still to strengthen family medical care across Estonia, so that it is more needs-based and closer to people. We are concerned that if the establishment of health centres remains solely on hospitals, for example, they may not be based on the actual needs of patients when choosing their location. I note that if the hospital is a partner, there is nothing wrong with planning a health centre based primarily on the needs of patients and the sustainability of the centre, and that the centres that are hoping come exactly where they are needed, i.e. to every county. Experience from both Estonian and foreign family medical centres shows that smaller units provide better quality services and patients are treated better there. Family doctor centers are now dead animals, from which no more drops can soon be squeezed out, because the financing model is powerfully centered on large hospitals and specialist care, encouraging the development of the capacity of hospitals and not of family medicine centres. How? Through a different financing model. If the family doctor is financed on the basis of a bounty, the specialist doctor's assistance is based on so-called cases, i.e. lumps. In the first case, more contributions are expected to be made to health prevention; in the second case, the aim is to treat the situation so that as many procedures and activities as possible can be carried out in one case, because then there will also be money. It is therefore not in the interest of specialised medical care to prevent human diseases. In addition, the financing model for family doctors does not provide resources for the development of administrative capacity, such as for the maintenance of the office or the office. Right now, the family doctor is doing everything on the side of his medical work. This is the case where family medical centres are unable to apply for projects from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), they do not have the capacity to do so. But whose problem is it really that they don't have the ability? Is it the country doctor's or maybe the country's? I am sure that this is a place of concern for the country, on which important steps must be taken, and to do so today. In any case, there must not be a situation where, due to the failure to submit applications, the money will be reallocated and will eventually be concentrated in larger centres, Tallinn and Tartu, because there is also a capacity and in the back pocket projects that can be submitted as soon as the need arises. And once again, family doctors remain in the role of a smaller brother who lives by the mercy of a greater brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U61	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U62	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker pointed out the main important aspects of this regulation. I want to focus on financing only one of the family medicine centres that are being created. It is known that there are certain criteria on the basis of which this money can be requested. One is that there must be a property where the necessary services can be provided. Unfortunately, we know perfectly well that in most municipalities, family medicine centres are not very well off. They operate mainly on the premises provided by the municipalities, with the support of the municipalities. It is quite clear that family medical centres are not able to finance the part of the self-financing of this project, which is why municipalities have to put their shoulders under. But what does that mean? We have quite clearly stated that the health system must be financed and supported by the state. Thus, this is nothing more than another transfer of the State's responsibilities on the shoulders of the municipalities. Suppose local governments are able to do this, they can put out this 25% own contribution. Suppose the necessary number of family doctors and midwives is collected and all other requirements required by the criteria are met. However, the conditions under which this money is used state that if these services are not provided, the grant received must be repaid. Now it may be that municipalities who have wanted to meet their residents have wanted to ensure that the primary health care service in their region is maintained in a situation where, for reasons beyond their control, no service is provided at the health centre. For example, we know that a large number of family doctors are already quite elderly, but young people's attendance is quite limited. If, for example, one doctor retires and a new doctor cannot be found, then the state will require all the investments made, all the expenses made back. This would be a huge burden for our governments, which have stood up for their people, which the state does not take into account. In fact, it is probably the State that is taking this into account in its attempt to put its responsibility again on the shoulders of the municipalities. In this respect, this regulation, this trend, the will of the government is extremely short-sighted, extremely self-governments, our people are discriminatory, and it does not at all lead to the positive tendencies that we have heard from this minister. Other things have been said nicely here today, thank you to everyone, but this is another phobia!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U63	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U64	The authors of the next inquiry are Küllik's Hatter, Monika Haukanõmm, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U65	Good Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Seven members of the Free Party Group asked the Minister of Finance a question about the plans of the future of RMK. In particular, the Minister of Finance addressed the Minister of the Environment with a specific wish to present a proposal for a change in the legal form of RMK, i.e. the conversion of a profit-making institution into a public limited company, which is clearly a company and, by its nature, profit-oriented. This has led to conflicting opinions and has caused much fear of the government's next hasty step, one of which is to find ways to fill the state budget's purse. During the last three years, about 50 million euros have been taken from RMK. This fear has also been confirmed by the coalition ambassador in the county papers of Vakra. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance has not been able to provide clear answers to the public about the objective in the last and a half months when this issue has been topical, nor to point out what bottlenecks are being addressed by changing the form of RMK's operation. There is an argument that transparency is not as much as it wants, but it does not explain exactly where that transparency lies. I quote one comment by Rainer Vakra, about which the Ministry has not been able to explain anything so far: 'The Ministry of Finance is talking about the desire to make RMK's management and budget transparent. This statement raises more questions than answers. If there are complaints about the company's activities, what has prevented them from raising them in the past and from resolving them? Does changing legal status really make something better? ' Let us remember that the forest is a larger asset that all of us can take part in. The forest has a role to play in our value-based civic education, the forest cannot be preserved or developed without cooperation between the state and the citizen. Our wish is that the forests under RMK's management will be maintained and our pride. There's a lot of work to be done here. I brought an example of Kääriku to the hearing. Yes, there is still the doomed principle of government policy that nature is a museum, i.e. the restrictions are constantly applied in the sense of sound management. My second home, Pelgulinna's concern is the protection of Strom's beach. This can only be protected if it is economically viable for RMK. Our forest is a common asset that cannot and must not always be managed on the principle of economic rationality. Keeping property requires sacrifices from time to time. The question is also whether current opportunities can be exploited and whether solutions can still be found with the new form of cooperation. Good minister! Today, we want clear and understandable explanations on what the Ministry of Finance aims and what problems you see.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U66	Understandable and clear explanations must be given by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also answer your questions one by one, but since my views on the form of RMK's activity are briefly summarised, I will present them as an introduction. So why does the Ministry of Finance consider it necessary to analyse the appropriateness of RMK's operating form? RMK's activities are diverse: forest management, forest management, timber marketing, nature conservation and recreation, plant and seed management. RMK's main activity is commercial forest management, which is reasonable to develop in the most appropriate form. The form of state profit institution that was introduced after the restoration of independence in RMK has remained exceptional until now, except for RMK, there is no other state profit institution. The commercial activities and business are essentially the same and RMK itself has sub-units in the form of a company, such as AS Eesti Metsataim, which was once again raised in inter-ministerial correspondence. RMK's activities, as the only profit-making state agency, have in many ways been regulated in the same way as those of the companies, but the form of state agency is accompanied by special features that are obviously not viable in view of RMK's core business. For example, a public institution cannot borrow, which means that it needs to maintain a high liquidity buffer and that it is not possible to use credit if long-term investments are needed. In the past, the issue has also been the ownership income of the State, for which there is clear regulation for companies, but this is not the case for public profit institutions. The creation of a parallel right for a single authority is additional bureaucracy. The state profit and loss office is a little regulated form of activity in our legal area. On the other hand, the form of the company is widely used, there is considerable and evolving legal practice and therefore has advantages in terms of transparency, legal clarity and comparability with other entities. Entities holding other significant State resources operate in the form of a company. In comparison, oil shale, which is a mineral resource owned by the State and whose mining value is valued by a state-owned company, operates in the form of a public limited company. Therefore, and only for this reason, the Ministry of Finance asked the Ministry of the Environment to analyse the justification of the transformation. A number of media approaches to this subject, but also questions raised in the inquiry, relate to issues that are independent of the legal form of RMK and which neither the Ministry of Finance nor I have raised in any way as Minister of Finance, not to mention the objective of such changes. The functions of RMK depend both on the will of the State and the owner when acting in the form of a profit-making institution and a company. The provision of hiking and nature trails and campfire sites and the possibility of going to the forest for everyone, which RMK has done with gratitude, must continue and both forms of action under discussion allow for this. For example, AS Eesti Energia, together with other major Estonian companies, Swedbank and Merko, has funded Estonian health trails for free use for years. Now to the questions. 'RMK was established in its time as a profit-making state agency to protect the Estonian forest from abuse, ensure its sustainable and sustainable economic use and take account of the public interest. All these years the system has worked well in general and brought large sums to the Estonian state budget. Over 50% of our territory is covered with forest, of which 40% is maintained by RMK. It's a lot of wealth. What is the idea of changing the form of action? Is privatisation planned? Why the Ministry of Finance speaks openly about the analysis, but in a letter sent to the other Ministry, an action and timetable for immediate preparation is ordered. 'The Government of the Republic discussed the issues and bottlenecks mapped out in the Green Paper on State Participation Policy at the meeting of the Cabinet of Government on 27 July 2015. The Green Paper on participatory policy was prepared by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with other ministries and private sector representatives. It was found, inter alia, that in practice the most appropriate form was not always used according to the nature of the State's activities. The vague nature of RMK's activities was specifically mentioned. As early as 2010, the National Audit Office raised the issue of the adequacy of RMK's operating form in its control report on the sustainability of the management of state forests. Therefore, this is not a new issue, but a question that was on the agenda before, which was raised again in connection with the process of liquidation of the Estonian Forest Plant initiated by the Ministry of the Environment. An analysis is needed on which to decide whether the current exceptional legal form is justified or whether it needs to be amended. As RMK belongs to the Ministry of the Environment, it is logical that the Ministry of the Environment is the leader of the analysis. During the analysis, it is appropriate to assess which activities are necessary for the transformation of RMK, so that the Government of the Republic can have a comprehensive view of decisions. I have therefore asked for proposals to be drawn up for the introduction of a company form with an operational and timetable. The next question: 'Why is RMK's activities not effectively targeted until it starts regulating the form of activity? After all, we see forests owned by RMK that have not been maintained. So the potential business income lies and rots on the ground. ' I cannot fail to point out that the statement on this issue contradicts your own position on the first question. On the first question, you say that all these years have worked well, and on the second question you say that they are not effectively targeted at work. The Ministry of Finance has not assessed RMK's wider activities. We believe that RMK's people are professional and work with the heart. We have raised the issue of the appropriateness of the form of action, which may have links with the effectiveness of the action. The current form of activity may have a dampening effect on long-term investments, as RMK does not have the financial flexibility of its companies, and RMK cannot raise foreign funds for long-term investments and must invest in its annual operating income. It is not necessary to reduce the intensity of forest management in terms of volumes, but also to improve the quality of forest in order to generate more revenue in terms of the same felling volumes thanks to better quality wood. Question: "Is there also a possible division of RMK into a company that owns and manages resources and realises it? " The Ministry of Finance considers that forest land must remain the property of the State, regardless of the form of activity of RMK. We are of the opinion that, when the company form is applied, the State could grant the company only the right to use the forest. Question: "How exactly does changing the operational format help to better organise the management of the state forest? Will this result in increased cutting and more revenue for the state? Is driving getting thinner? Why is the system being demolished because there is no trust in today's RMK team? " I already explained it in the introduction and in the previous answers. The analysis must certainly also take into account the experience of other countries, including the reasons why countries that use the country's natural resources responsibly, such as Norway and Sweden, have chosen the form of the company. In any case, speaking about dismantling is irrelevant to RMK. If RMK's investment capacity increases in the form of a company, it will help to increase the value of the forest. Question: 'The desire to strengthen the business part of RMK indicates that there is a desire to increase public revenue. Will RMK be transformed into only business, such as Eesti Energia or the Port of Tallinn, forgetting that the forest is the property of the Estonian people and the wealth of all of us? We note that § 5 of the Constitution says that Estonia's natural resources and natural resources are national wealth, which must be used sustainably. ' In the question, I have been given a number of statements that I have never had in mind and that I have never put forward. The sustainable use of Estonian natural resources is a prerequisite in all areas, both for the state and for the private sector. The state must ensure that they are managed in a sustainable way, regardless of ownership reform, even in the case of forests. Question: "Are you of the opinion that taxation of the right to use forest products is a good idea? If so, how do you intend to organise the collection of the fee and in what amount? What is the administrative burden and cost of tax collection for the State? ' I don't know whose idea this is, what you're asking me about. The purpose of the Ministry of Finance is not to make forest products and nature trails and objects pay and it is not intended to be dealt with in the context of the analysis task set out. Moreover, RMK's form of action in this regard is irrelevant. Question: 'Are you of the opinion that charging for the use of rabaradas and RMK's other sights is a good idea? If so, how do you intend to organise the collection of the fee and in what amount? What is the administrative burden and cost of tax collection for the State? " Again, I do not know who has come up with this idea. In any case, I do not, and apart from the short answer that I think it is right to keep the nature trails open to everyone, I have nothing further to say about this. Question: 'How do you justify the stimulation of business in forestry and the introduction of paid services if it is intended to patch public budget holes? ' The question has no bearing on the intentions and actions of the Ministry of Finance in this area. I hope you understand: the answer to the question cannot be expected to justify positions that he has never presented himself. Question: 'There is a risk that increasing turnover and dominating commercial logic in RMK will make state forestry an object of political influence and exploitation. What measures are you planning to prevent this development? ' The risk of political exploitation is not contained in the form of action. Most of Estonia's forests are private forests and the rules must ensure the same level of responsible behaviour in both state and private forests. If there is fear that the current rules on forest management allow manipulation, they must be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U68	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for these answers. I will continue with the questions here. What has RMK's undistributed profits been over the years? What are your hopes, will it grow when a company takes its form? A little further from here. How unexpected or unanticipated is this coming now? Since the coalition's Bible has generally been a coalition agreement, please also remind us what the coalition agreement has said about RMK and what are the views of the coalition's parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U70	Thank you, good questioner. I will return here to the 2010 National Audit Office's audit. I hope you have read this in-depth audit from 20 September 2010. It describes the current situation and makes its recommendations very clear. The National Audit Office recommends the reorganisation of the current state profit and loss institution into one or more government agencies or state companies, where the income earned would be separated from other public functions related to the forest. And note an interesting nuance. The National Audit Office notes that the current non-profit body may rather have a conflict of interest between making profit and increasing revenue. The National Audit Office has already said that further analysis should be carried out. If all the questions had been answered, there would probably be no need for analysis. However, as regards the indicators you mentioned, I really had some indicators found out about the State Forest Management Centre. If you are interested in the result that has been in the period, I could say that in the last three years, net revenue has rather increased. If we look at the trend in 2012, 2013, 2014, then the EBITDA will be in these three years, I'm talking about a million-per-mile, 34, 41 and 52 million respectively, and a net fire of 19, 31, 40 million. At the same time, dividend capacity, or not even capacity, has had exactly the opposite trend in dividend payments over the three years. So to say that thoughts are related to dividend policy is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U71	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U72	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You stressed several times that RMK needs to invest in a variety of ways. Can you tell me which investments we're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U73	Thank you. I think that the right answer would be the Minister for the Environment, whose administration and competence falls within this issue. You can submit an inquiry to him to find out more about the investment needs of RMK in the near future, where they want to invest, what volumes they want to manage in the future, etc. He is certainly much more competent to respond as Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is also the reason why I have addressed the Minister of the Environment in particular so that he would give this indication to say by spring how he sees his case: does he see the problems, for example, whether the issues raised by the National Audit Office are adequate, whether we should change something that the amendment will provide, whether it will give the state any advantages, whether the action is more transparent, which can be expected. I think that analysis should provide these answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U74	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U75	Good manager! Good minister! Already in 2008, there was talk of possible privatisation of the state forest and of the problems associated with it. Then it kind of got in the air. Clearly, the forest offers many opportunities. You are saying that in the interests of transparency and legal clarity, it would make sense to turn RMK into a public limited company. But how do you comment on this summary of the National Audit Office that the state continues to face difficulties in the prudent and purposeful management of companies, that the activities of state companies are often unpurposeful, that the supervision of owners is not effective, etc.? And the Green Paper that you are preparing, according to the National Audit Office, has gotten a little better, but in any case it is incomplete.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U76	Thank you. That's a very good point. I think what you're talking about is very right. In the case of state-owned companies, it is worth reviewing a number of processes. And, of course, it's worth checking if any processes have been programmed in or if mistakes have come in. Let us take as an example the Port of Tallinn, on which you made a committee of inquiry in Parliament. So there's an error in there somewhere when there's a chance of such potential corruption cases. In companies, it is certainly worth paying attention to the decision-making processes, the results that one or the other company wants to achieve, and then the actions that these results are intended to achieve. When we talk specifically about RMK, as I said earlier, the National Audit Office has recommended that it be reorganized into a company. I would certainly recommend reading this in-depth audit that they carried out five years ago. It does not only talk about the company, it talks about the management of the whole forest at all, about what should be redeployed, what the visions of the future are, about the fact that the current logging policy is perhaps not responding to what would be sustainable, etc. This audit certainly involves a greater context. But one conclusion that has been reached there is that we should rather reorganize RMK. Once again, once the analysis has reached our tables, we can make final decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U77	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U78	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I appeal to you as the current Minister and also to the former Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I also looked at the annual reports of RMK. The net profit allocation to the state budget has been quite large: 2011 20.6, 2012 36.2 and then 15.8 and 14.6 million euros. In the coming year, as I recall from the draft budget, you will only plan to withdraw 5 million from RMK's net profit. Where's the logic of why only five million this time? Is there any logic here, or is RMK taking exactly what it takes to patch up a budget hole some year?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U79	Thank you. Your question is a good one, but in the conclusion I disagree with you. The context of your conclusion was that a different dividend policy is involved in patching the holes in the state budget. No, it's definitely not. In the case of the various companies, in the case of the example in question, the State-profit body, as well as the other companies which the State has in place in three respects: firstly, the security aspects; secondly, the public interest; thirdly, the raising of taxpayers' money, or taxpayers' wealth. In the case of RMK, in addition to raising taxpayers' wealth, we must certainly bear in mind the public interest and I do not rule out any security aspects. I'm sure it's in the public interest. It can be expected that at the moment when the budget procedure reaches the stage where the sector ministers are asked and, in turn, the sectoral ministers are asking the companies in their area of activity in the present case from RMK, it will be clear whether future investment objects or other indicators have created the need to reduce dividend payments. It is always the interests of a particular company, company or, as in the case of a particular example, a profit-making body that must always be taken as a priority. That's a priority! And only then, when dividend payments can be made, do state-owned companies generally do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U80	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The forest is certainly our natural resource, which must be preserved and repaired. You said that, on the basis of other countries' experience, you mentioned Norway and Sweden, too, our RMK's investment capacity should increase if we use a business model. I ask about your vision: what are the specific factors or income items by which investment capacity should increase compared to the current form if RMK continues as it has done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U82	Thank you. I have already made an important point in my introductory speech. Certainly, what matters is that he has no creditworthiness. Since it is a profit-making company, it is not possible for it to take credit in the classical sense of long-term investment projects, as can be done by ordinary companies. If he wants to run long-term processes, he has to go directly to the state. There are certainly a number of other processes to which the National Audit Office has paid attention in its audit, which are the reasons why it recommends a more common company model than such an exceptional form of state profit institution. I watched, for an interest, how the immediate neighbours have solved their forestry issues, especially those related to the state forest. Latvia has a state-owned enterprise, a state company, which is also a model for Lithuania, Norway and Sweden. In some countries, the forest is owned by the company, but most countries own it, including Estonia. And I think it should be that way in the future. As I said in my introductory speech, property should definitely belong to the state. The state profit institution is in itself a form of state property, but if it were a company, it could only be the manager of property, just as Eesti Energia, for example, is the manager of property.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U83	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. I have understood that the forest cannot be brought to Tallinn, but the State Forest Management Centre could be moved from Tallinn. We have been talking here a long time today about the form of entrepreneurship, but it has been agreed in the coalition agreement that the removal of certain state institutions and enterprises from Tallinn could be a priority. Has the other half, or regional, been addressed in parallel with this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U85	Thank you. I owe you an answer in this context, because I am not the minister responsible for this matter. It is really right that the coalition agreement provides for this, and it is now working to ensure that state institutions or their agencies can be located elsewhere in terms of 'decentralization'. In particular, as regards RMK, I really cannot say, I should certainly ask the Minister for the Environment what are his plans for the near future, for the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U86	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U87	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand that from your point of view, the proposals put forward relate to improving the work of RMK. But let's think about other companies that belong to the state. Five or six years ago, it was said that Eesti Energia must separate what is related to oil shale and energy. Do you have anything else that, from your point of view, could be improved in companies belonging to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U88	Thank you. I'll start from the beginning, then maybe I'll get to the end of your question. Naturally, as you began, the aim is to improve the system, to make the system more transparent, more understandable. As I said in the introductory speech, the state revenue agency RMK is exceptional. If ever before, when this law was passed, it was assumed that such legal entities could come yet, then in the end, there has been no more. And that means, to some extent, parallel law. Rather, it would be much more reasonable to manage in the form of a company or a business. However, once again, the analysis that the Ministry of the Environment has made reveals what proposal will eventually be brought to the table by the Government of the Republic. As I said in my introductory speech, the one and only goal is to achieve clarity, simplicity and comprehension, certainly not to shut down or make our beloved hiking trails pay. To be honest, I wouldn't imagine there's a barrier somewhere. But now the second part of the question: do you see a longer view? In the summer, the Green Paper on State Property Policy, which is characteristic of the Green Paper, raised a number of questions in the case of one or another business or, let's say, state-owned companies: what is the owner's vision of how the owner wishes to implement one or the other company's policy, what are the management models of any other company that might arise in the case of one or another state-owned enterprise. While these questions were in the Green Paper, the White Paper seeks answers to them. There should, in principle, be answers to the question of whether the state must own one or the other company and, if so, for what reasons. As I said, there are three reasons which could be highlighted in particular: security aspects, public interest and interests arising from dividend policy. So the question is whether it should be the property of the State, what is this policy and how one or another company is managed. I think that the White Paper can also give us the understanding that we are increasingly and more depoliticising the councils of state companies. There have certainly been more politicians in previous years. These are questions up to whether state-owned companies could in turn be consolidated in order to achieve a certain synergistic effect. Since these are state-owned companies, they are clearly also taxpayers. Consequently, for each of our actions, we need to understand where we are going with one step or another. That is our common goal. Just as the Minister for Economic Affairs has already started to consolidate companies in his area of activity, trying to provide synergies in the logistics and transport sectors, I, as Minister of Finance, am currently trying to create a situation where the whole thing is being reviewed in the interests of a particular sector or sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U89	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U90	Good manager! Good minister! I want to reassure you: I am glad that you answered quite essentially the questions that we had asked today. The arguments and arguments that you put forward here today did not come out of the press. What concerns you, however, is why you take this subject so personally. We have asked these questions to clarify your views. The context of our questions was not as we would say that you have claimed this and this. I didn't understand that tone. I've opened up a government action plan that Andres Herkel wanted an answer to. There is such a great goal that Estonia should be the centre or example of a network of hiking and study trails in the European Union. It was pointed out in several places that RMK's activities in this area are very important. This certainly also means that the surroundings and appearance of these paths should be consistent. As far as the proposal of the National Audit Office is concerned, there were two thought developments. One idea is to divide RMK into two parts, one for forest protection and the other for forest management. At the same time, there was again the question of whether it is worth dealing with duplication, whether we are such a rich country to support such a large administrative apparatus. These are all the discussions that need to be held. However, our aim was still to signal that we could first analyse, rather than issue direct orders to our fellow Member to carry out certain activities. Let's try to keep these things separate. We'll analyze it first, then we'll do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U91	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We have passed the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U92	We will go to the third item on the agenda: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Ain Lutsep, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõmme and Andres Herkel about the development of a broadband network. It is presented to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U93	Good meeting manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to see that two people from the coalition are present and one of them is Tanel Talve, for whom broadband is also a very important issue. Very good! And you had a beautiful article. But the theme is broadband internet and the so-called EstWin project. When it started a few years ago, we were all promised that high-speed internet connections would be in every village and every corner. But when we start looking at reality, I can tell from the surface of my community that the base network was built up to the mast of the mobile operator and that's where he ended up. Olav Harjo, the founder of EstWin and EASA, the former CEO of the foundation that led this process, has pointed out that it is likely that the base network will be made for taxpayers' money to large telecom companies and that it will not actually be worked to ensure that every person gets to the fast internet in the rural area. In the meantime, a number of problems have arisen, but we have written a number of questions to the Minister. There is certainly one big question about the financing of the so-called last mile. It is claimed that this last mile of money is not foreseen in the budget for next year. So it's the connections from the end of the broadband cable to the home. The problem is that people may be told that you can get 4G or even 5G mobile connection to your area thanks to a better connection with cell towers. Based on my experience, I have to say that there are problems in the country now, even with good phone access, this connection is very uneven, not to mention the Internet. The internet service based on radio is also uneven and, in addition, much more expensive than the same service in cities. In short, there are a number of questions. Is this really the hypocritical use of taxpayers' money to make sure that the so-called telecoms, which are already very rich and profit-making institutions, can have a better basic network? Or is there any way to come back to the starting point, which is to take Internet connection to every farm in Estonia or to at least a very large part of Estonia's farms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U94	Thank you. Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm trying to answer that question. First of all, it is a priority for the Estonian state to offer high-quality internet over Estonia. That is why the basic broadband network has been developed. Base network is a network of fibre optic cables that provides fast and ultra-fast internet access. In the framework of the EstWin project, new generation broadband networks based on fibre-optic cables are also introduced to rural areas throughout Estonia. With the support of the European Union, projects similar to EstWin will also be carried out in other European Union countries. Euro money can only be used by the State for the establishment of a basic network. The establishment of a basic network is a prerequisite for bringing the last mile of connections to final consumers. The European Commission's message is that the last mile must be built by market participants, and the same euro money cannot be used for this. The objective of the Estonian basic broadband network, or EstWin project, is that 98% of households, companies and institutions are closer than 1.5 kilometres to the basic network. A total of about 6600 kilometres of the basic network covering the whole country is planned to be built. Right now it's ready for 2800 kilometers. The total cost of the money is approximately EUR 74 million over the two Structural Funds periods. Of this, EUR 63 million is public money from the Structural Funds, plus the operators' own contribution of EUR 11 million. By the end of 2018, the core network will be ready. As has been said, the same money cannot be used to set up a basic network and to transport the last mile to the consumer. The message from the European Commission is that the latter must be made by market participants. The European Union's money will build a base that can be relied on. In practice, there are many places where consumers are interested in receiving mobile services. For example, Dog's cable was shipped free to everyone behind the fence, but people didn't want to use it. The offer has not led to demand; rather, it is an interest to use a mobile connection rather than to be on a fixed cable. A few words about standards and the future. In Estonia, we are among the top-5 of the European Union and are the first, or most affordable, mobile internet speeds. Technologically, by about 2020, a new 5G speed standard is also coming. The comfort of the future user requires the possibility not to be at the end of the cable, but to be able to reach out quickly wherever you move. However, there are certainly companies and institutions that, due to the high flow of information, must have cable connection. But now the answers. To save time, I'm not going to read the questions separately. Answer to the first question. The objective of the Estonian basic broadband network, or EstWin project, is that 98% of households, companies and institutions are closer than 1.5 kilometres to the basic network. The communication network must be considered as a single whole and the establishment of the basic network is a prerequisite for bringing the last mile of connections to final consumers. Connecting cell towers to the basic network was not just an end in itself. Since mobile masts are part of the basic network for electronic communications, connecting them has been a logical step that has ensured the spread of one of the best 4G mobile data systems in Estonia. Connecting mobile towers to the basic network is also one measure that can provide a high-speed mobile internet throughout Estonia. A fast mobile connection is the most convenient way for consumers to access the Internet. Connecting mobile towers to the basic network has contributed strongly to improving the availability of high-speed data communication throughout Estonia and to narrowing the digital divide between different regions of Estonia. In rural areas, mobile internet is a considerable alternative to cable. Mobile data communication is not always a replacement for fixed connection with cable, but it is a significant contribution to the provision of high-speed internet access throughout Estonia now and now. The State aid granted for such purposes in the context of the construction of the basic broadband network coincides with the European Union State Aid Guidelines. Answer two. The government takes seriously the recommendations of the audit made by the National Audit Office, one of which concerned the need to map market failures in the so-called last mile community. To date, a database developed under the direction of the Technical Surveillance Authority is in essence ready to identify more easily the extent of the market failure of broadband access connections and to carry out a comprehensive mapping. The introduction and making available to the public of this database requires some changes to the existing Code, which is already being dealt with. Answer to question three. There is one argument that cannot be accepted in this respect. Due to the EU Structural Funds rules, the EstWin project is funded with a ratio of 85:15. This means that the State grants approximately EUR 63 million and the investment of EASA's founders is 11 million. In addition, EASA has contributed a total of EUR 3.7 million to the development of the project as its own resources during the 2009/2015 period. In addition, telecoms operators have invested a total of EUR 25.1 million in the development of the last mile of fixed and mobile networks. These amounts will certainly increase even further when the EstWin project is completed. Answer to question four. State aid is granted where there is a real market failure. According to the rules, light cables can only be installed where they are not yet available and wherever they are intended to be installed in the foreseeable future or where the capacity of existing light cables has been exhausted. At the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control s. On 19 October the National Audit Office also confirmed that the money has been used properly. Answer to question five. State aid impact assessments are carried out on a regular basis, with metrics in the implementation plan of the Information Society Development Plan as the main instrument for the impact assessment, to be monitored from year to year. The answer to question six. As already mentioned above, a database has been developed under the direction of the Technical Surveillance Authority to map areas of market failure throughout the territory of Estonia. This database is in principle complete, but its introduction, as well as making it available to the public, requires some changes to existing legislation. The answer to Question 7. This spring, the government decided that by February 2016, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will have to propose solutions to bring the fast internet to the end user. In cooperation with the Minister for Finance and Rural Affairs, it is planned to submit to the government proposals for an analysis of the last mile of high-speed internet connection. To date, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Technical Surveillance Authority, has prepared a first problem mapping. Secondly, according to the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Public Administration has been tasked with developing, in cooperation with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister of Rural Affairs, by January 2017 and providing the Government with an additional mechanism to support the development of the so-called last km/mile. This includes road and electricity supply. Number eight response. The rules of the European Union provide that, after receiving the grant, the basic network must be available to all communications undertakings on equal terms within seven years of the eligibility period. The State considers it important that, after the end of the period, the basic network be built on equal terms to be available to all communications undertakings. The management of the established communications network, its provision to operators, is subject to permanent supervision by the Technical Surveillance Authority in accordance with the Electronic Communications Act. Following the recommendations made in the audit of the National Audit Office, consultations have been initiated between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elisa to conclude a written agreement. This would provide the State with an additional guarantee for the management of the basic broadband network developed by the EstWin project throughout its lifetime. In addition, EASA regulates the law on electronic communications access to the network and the competition law, resulting in different obligations regarding access to and interconnection of the network. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U96	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U97	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Your answers were understandable, but it still doesn't make sense whether rural residents receive the same price and quality internet as urban residents as a result of this project. The internet that is distributed via mobile phones, as well as WiMAX and other technologies, is now much more expensive in the country than in cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U98	Thank you. In my reply, I have already explained in many ways what the purpose of the state's action is, how the European Union's money is used, what can be done for it, and who, in the European Commission's view, should build this last mile of community. This should be done by market participants. By February 2016, or February next year, we will propose different solutions to bring the fast internet to the end user. This analysis will also give you a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U99	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U100	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This summer, 67 metres from my country home, this cable was also put in the country. Do we now have to wait two to three years to see this expensive investment in the ground before the villagers can actually access the Internet? Why have these activities not been in parallel and why is this problem not being addressed in a complex way?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U101	Thank you. The activities run in parallel. This very basic network is actually the basis for a high-speed internet connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U102	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the coincidence of circumstances, the same subject has been discussed twice in this House today, and this was also the subject of the state budget monitoring committee. There, the specialists who answered the questions stated several times that the mobile internet could not offer the same internet as a fixed network in terms of quality. You focused your answers only now on the possibilities of a mobile internet. Do you see other solutions and options or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U104	Thank you. Yeah, I can see that. I also mentioned in passing, perhaps very briefly, that there are certainly places where there is a greater need for information and exchange, and there is certainly also a need for cable. At the same time, as practice in some places has shown, cable is sometimes delivered, but it has not found its intended use. I would say that in the future, however, the consumer is expected to want a service, and not only via a fixed line. That is what we said in Parliament's committee. But that is why we are also discussing some of the issues of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U105	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U106	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, an investment in the core network in the form of an optical cable is a worthwhile undertaking. Circa 30 million has been invested, and I understand that 40 million more needs to be invested. But my question concerns this last mile. How do you think it would be wise to move in that direction to deploy the masts of our distribution network? We know that these masts are not taken out of use in scattered settlements, they do not necessarily plow the cable into the ground. It is also intended to use the possibility of transporting an optical cable to a place in the countryside in the air. We know that plowing a cable in the ground is expensive and requires agreement with landowners. Could this be one solution to ensure connection by means of an optical cable?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U107	Thank you. I think that technical solutions are for those who are working on the broadband network. I am not going to recommend this from this Riigikogu board. As I said, we are doing an analysis of how fast internet can reach the end user, and its results can be shared in February 2016. I agree with you that in the future, people will be increasingly mobile and work will also be sought outside cities. Therefore, the proper quality of communications must be guaranteed. I think the basic network is a good basis for this, as you indicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U108	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. You said the state wanted to drag the cable to every farm, but many people didn't want to use it. Very many of the rural people probably do not want to use an ambulance, police, post office, and pharmacy, because they have all been shut down. The good intention is one thing, the other is that your government's good intentions paved the way to a ghost knows where. Perhaps you could declare that life outside the larger cities is impossible. Then the country doesn't need a pharmacy or a fire department. People have already organized free-will rescue commandos and maybe they're organizing other free-will services. If life outside the city is impossible, say so. Tell me that life in the country is impossible and you cannot guarantee decent life for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U110	Thank you. I answer here, just like you, humorously, using the sports term. I don't think you're really hitting the offer with that statement right now. That is why this basic network is being set up to enable people to access the internet faster and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U111	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thanks to Artur Talvik, especially warm thanks to you for noting me! Indeed, you are right, turning rural into popular is one of the most important things I have come to this Riigikogu to do. The fast internet certainly goes with the popularisation of rural and rural living. Unfortunately, the situation is that living in the countryside is costly. This is a fact in Estonia today, and that is why the government coalition has put efficient and high-quality infrastructure at the heart of its regional policy objective. I dare point out that, in the run-up to the Social Democrats, the government agreement was complemented by a point in late summer, which says: 'To ensure that every family living in the country has a reasonable price for communications (electricity, fast internet and decent driving routes), by creating the necessary additional support mechanisms (the so-called last km support). ' At the time, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister of State Administration received a letter as responsible. Unfortunately, the audit of the National Audit Office shows that, despite the government's plan to ensure that all Estonian people have access to a high-speed Internet connection by 2020 through the development of the basic broadband network, this may not happen to the extent expected. In fact, it has not been thought about how to make the fast internet available even outside apartment buildings and in areas where few people live. As a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I have quite several times raised the question of whether the sums spent so far have really come to the fore. And I've also been asking what plan we're planning for further investments. I must say that, unfortunately, I have not yet received a very comprehensive response from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Also, the state budget for next year has not been planned to mitigate this "last mile" market failure. All the more so since it has not been decided which strategy to take forward in the first place. After all, it is still incomprehensible how fast the internet is coming to the end user. Will there be a commitment to the community's own initiative, as has been done here? Is the solution 4G or because of me, 5G technology, and would it be wise to take this light cable to households along the airlines instead of digging it into the ground? There are many options, and I'm sure there are specialists in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and elsewhere who can come up with the best solution. But, good friends, there's a plan to be made and a clear statement to the people. Indeed, at the moment, the rural population gets the strange impression that some coarse cable will be put down at the site, but no one can use it. This is because bringing the last piece of cable into the room and joining one of the service providers is either unreasonable or impossible at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to discuss this issue very seriously and not to consider it to be an insignificant matter. Anyone living in a rural area knows this is a pretty important question. To understand the severity of the problem, here are a few more numbers. Between 2009 and 2014, the State invested EUR 28 million in the development of the basic broadband network from the European Union. A further EUR 41 million is planned for the same purpose from 2015 to 2020. The use of these millions must be very well thought out. We should still somehow reach the ultimate goal that every person, regardless of their place of residence, and also every company, let us not forget that! A decent fast internet could be used, regardless of location. I will conclude here with the words of Auditor General Alar Karis that we must make every effort to ensure that, among many reasons, at least the lack of a proper internet connection is not an additional argument, why in some places no new jobs can be created, or why people are abandoning their current place of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U113	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U114	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, When I decided to build a house in my country 15 years ago and to settle halfway in the country, one that encouraged me to do so was the Internet, or the opportunity to get my job done from a distance, without being in the city or at a meeting in the particular place where it takes place. It was a huge effort to finally get the Internet into your house, and now it's spreading there via WiMax. This is another example of how rural life is really much more expensive than urban life for the WiMax connection I pay considerably more than we pay for internet connection in Tallinn. When the EstWin project came, we really hoped that something positive would reach the country. However, when this broadband cable began to be delivered, it stood right next to the cell tower, and it is not a mile away from the inhabitants of our community, but farther away. And that's where we started. We turned to the same EASA foundation that stands for the implementation of the EstWin project. We turned to our parish to support our desire to have the Internet in our village, and we also approached the operators to find out under what conditions they would be willing to establish a connection if this EstWin broadband cable came from our village a mile and a half from there. And the answer? To be honest, the operators admitted that they did not want to start providing any kind of connection in such a small area, so do it yourself. Where do you get that money, we don't know. Maybe there's some money coming from the last mile project, but the communities are really in trouble. As Vasilyev has asked here, if the police are gone and the fire department is gone and there is a voluntary fire department, should the community now become an Internet operator? This is not a principle of equal treatment. If you live in Tallinn, you do not have to become an Internet operator with your housing association, but you are forced to do so in rural areas. The second and very important factor is price. The Minister pointed out here, for example, that somewhere this cable was brought to their homes, but he did not mention the cost of this connection or accession. An expensive price is one reason why people are not ready to order this online service in the country. Again, the opposite is true compared to what is the point of transporting EstWin's cable. The idea is to bring the internet to every home in Estonia and to do so in such a way that it does not create more equal citizens in society, i.e. urban people who receive services cheaper, while rural people have to pay much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U115	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U116	We will move on to the fourth inquiry by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild on the 24th day of September this year. The inquiry is about the government's commitments to address the migration crisis and is number 77. Reply by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. It is a great honour to welcome Jaak Madison, the representative of the heirs coming to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U117	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 24 September, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, we submitted an inquiry to Mr Pevkur regarding the government's commitments to resolve the migration crisis. As we know, there have been a great many events over a month and a half that should make the government and our Parliament change their positions to date. In the context of an increasingly escalating crisis of immigration and refugees, which has so far not been brought to a halt in the Mediterranean Sea, Estonia has made promises to receive refugees on a larger scale than was promised at the European Council on 25-26 June. Originally, the position of the Estonian Government, supported by the European Union Affairs Commission, was that Estonia only accepts refugees voluntarily and given our capabilities, but 120,000 more persons were distributed by qualified majority between 28 European Union countries at the extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council on 22 September. Unlike several other European countries, the Estonian Elik Minister of the Interior also supported this plan by voting in favour of refugee quotas, conflicting with the mandate of the Riigikogu, according to which Estonia must prefer voluntary assistance to each other. On 26 June s. a Mr Pevkur confirmed that on a voluntary basis Estonia is ready to receive 84.156 refugees, i.e. immigrants, as this figure corresponds to Estonia's size and capacity. In all of this, we have put five questions to the Minister of the Interior. The first reads: 'Why did Estonia vote in favour of the plan submitted by the European Commission on 22 September at the extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council to divide 120,000 persons between the Member States of the European Union, unlike Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania? ' Second: 'How does Estonian legislation comply with the application of refugee quotas by qualified majority? " Third: How great is Estonia's ability to receive refugees in two years? ' Here I recall that we would like to know the exact number. The last two months have never been answered specifically, there has been talk of vague figures and capacity building at the expense of our taxpayer's money. Fourth: 'What sanctions can the European Commission impose if Estonia fails to fulfil the obligation imposed on us to accept immigrants to the extent permitted? ' And fifthly, 'In what areas is Estonia still a sovereign state in which we are not obliged to comply with quotas, directives or regulations arising from the European Union? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U118	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U119	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Since the questions were read out, I'm going straight to answer them. Question one. It is worth explaining here that, although the countries of the European Union that you referred to did not agree to this redistribution decision, which the Presidency of the European Union had put on the table, a solution was found that was suitable for the Member States, including Estonia. At the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 1 October and at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs of the Riigikogu on 5 October, Estonia stated that we are prepared to receive people in need of international protection on a voluntary basis in the event of a crisis, given the capacity of the Estonian state, the proportion of the population and economy in the European Union and the wish of people in need of protection themselves to come to Estonia. I would also like to point out here that Estonia has not been in favour of permanent compulsory relocation mechanisms. Estonia's position has been at the beginning, and I refer here to the meeting of the Government on 9 June, in which we approved the positions on the European Commission communication on the European Agenda on Migration, that our priority is to provide the necessary assistance, particularly on the ground, i.e. in the hotspots. It is best to address the root causes of the problems in order to avoid situations similar to the Mediterranean crisis. On 27 May, the European Commission published concrete proposals for the implementation of the European Agenda on Migration, in which, as we know, other measures are already under way at EU level to help deal with migratory flows. Another question was already read out by the author of the inquiry. I would like to make it clear once again that there are no refugee quotas at European Union level, although you say so in your own question. As regards the legal basis and the qualified majority, the European Union may act only to achieve the objectives set out in the Treaties and within the limits of the competences conferred on the European Union by the Treaties. Under these agreements, asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection are matters of shared competence between the European Union and the Member States and the decision-making of measures is based on qualified majority voting. This results in particular from Article 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The third question was how great our ability is. At this point, I certainly do not intend to say any particular number. Migration is an area where no billing can be predicted. On 16 September, when we look specifically at the relocation and resettlement mechanism, we set up a coordination body for refugee policy, composed of representatives of eight ministries and other public authorities, to implement it. This collection has prepared a detailed action plan which has been discussed both in the government office and between ministries. It has been drawn up on the basis of the agreements currently concluded between Member States in the European Union institutions in the area of resettlement and relocation. They also asked about sanctions. The case with sanctions is that Estonia has voluntarily participated in the agreement on relocation measures as a member of the European Union. We certainly cannot talk about the obligation imposed on Estonia, but about the measures agreed jointly to help the Member States that are under exceptional pressure. If you look at purely sanctions, yes, in theory the European Commission may refer the action of a Member State to the European Court of Justice and the European Commission may propose to the Court to impose a financial penalty on the Member State concerned, the amount of which depends on the duration and gravity of the infringement and the size of the Member State. Specific sanctions cannot be said to you here. The fifth question concerns what is the European Union's competence and what is not. I would remind the respondents that on 14 September 2003 the Act supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was passed in a referendum, according to which Estonia may belong to the European Union according to the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Article 2 of the same Act provides that Estonia's membership of the European Union applies the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, subject to the rights and obligations arising from the Accession Treaty. The division of competences between the European Union and the Member States is concerned both by the Treaty on European Union and by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Without wishing to read them in full here, it can be said broadly that the European Union jointly regulates, for example, customs, euro-related, internal market competition law, etc. The Union shall also have competence to conclude an international agreement where it is provided for by a legislative act of the Union or where it is necessary to enable the Union to exercise its internal competence or where its conclusion may affect common rules or alter their scope. If you look at the different areas further, the European Union and the Member States will act in different areas on the principle of shared competence. One example is the internal market, transport and energy, as well as everything concerning freedom, security and rights. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U120	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too! Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U121	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! It seems to me that you are not quite honest with the members of the Riigikogu. It's possible to fix a fine. It is linked to a percentage of GDP. The fine for the Estonian state would be about EUR 390000, as we have calculated. But that's what I'm asking. You indicated that the plan proposed by the Commission did not work out, that it had been changed, and that then the Member States agreed. If they then agreed, on what basis has Slovakia gone to court against this decision? And did this revised plan really fit Hungary?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U122	Thank you. As I said, the Commission's proposal was suitable for the Member States, including Estonia. As far as your countries are concerned, the President-in-Office conducted the voting procedure in such a way that they did not ask who was in favour, but asked who was opposed. And Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania raised their hand and said that they opposed it. There was no additional vote since the qualified majority had been achieved. Of course, each Member State has the right to challenge the decisions of the Council of the European Union and, if anyone wishes to challenge something, the Court of Justice will give its ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U123	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Is the government prepared to reassess its decisions on the basis of the events in Paris this weekend? What will be done as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U125	Thank you. The Ministers of the Interior of the European Union meet exceptionally on Friday. We'll see what the moods are like. I certainly do not want to commit a single issue of migration and a single act of terrorism. This single act of terror was very gruesome, very cruel, and it takes absolute attention to identify the cause of this bloodshed. As far as future decisions are concerned, the Government of the Republic is free to decide anything in cooperation with the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. If there is any need to make emergency decisions, we are ready. Today, however, we do not see that we should rush into making decisions without knowing all the causes of this terrible bloodwork and the results of our research so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U126	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U127	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good minister! What amazes me is that our minister is going to meet with his colleagues to monitor the moods, find out what someone thinks and what someone wants to do. He is not going to defend his own views, the country's developed opinion, which is best for us. That sounds like a very banana republic. What are we still talking about? The other thing is that we are as if amazed by a terrorist act. It was a matter of time before the bombs started to explode and people were killed. There are between 800000 and 1.5 million immigrants coming to Europe. A month ago, so-called experts thought it was unlikely that terrorists would come here in the shadow of refugees. It has now been confirmed that there are terrorists among the refugees. Those are the facts. Let's not live in illusion! But here's my question. You said that it was theoretically possible to impose sanctions in the form of financial penalties. In theory, therefore, we are obliged to comply with our voluntary commitments. The conclusion is that it is not really voluntary, we have made a firm commitment that must be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U128	Thank you. I'm sure you have the right to your emotions and your opinion. As regards the meeting on Friday, this is an extraordinary meeting which will discuss, among other things, the terrorist attack in Paris. It is not very practical to formulate positions for this purpose. At the same time, we know that border issues will also be discussed, and in this area we have our positions shaped. It is also planned to discuss PNR issues, which have already been discussed in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. We expect the European Union to implement this system quickly, which would help to make good progress in the fight against terrorism. As regards the issues raised by you, so-called theoretically, I will say once again that the Estonian state participated in this decision-making process entirely voluntarily. Of course, we decided to help the countries under migratory pressure on a voluntary basis. And even if the European Commission has a theoretical opportunity to go to court, I do not believe that the Commission can bring a matter before the courts of a Member State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U129	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U130	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Our free party members had a great slogan in the election 'Burn to The Head! '. I think the latest events in France should make sense of everyone here. My question has to do with whether it has come to my mind. Our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Poland, have announced that they will not accept more immigrants than the number that has already been agreed. I ask: will the Government of the Republic of Estonia make the same decision and state that it will not accept more immigrants for security reasons than those that have already been agreed on?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U131	Thank you for your question. You have rightly pointed out that both Poland and Lithuania have spoken of additional figures. I see no need today to talk about additional figures if we have an agreement at European Union level to relocate 160,000 people. There is also a buffer inside this figure, which covers 54000 people. Elik, we have no reason to talk about any new decisions at all. And until such time as such decisions are not even on the table, there is no point in speculating about whether or not someone is making these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U132	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I heard that the European Commission's decision could be appealed or challenged. My experience shows that if the forced tenants had an action against the Republic of Estonia, it was not subject to an appeal to the Brussels Court. Where's the truth now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U134	Thank you. I said that an appeal could be made against the decision of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U135	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U136	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Juncker has predicted 3 million immigrants to Europe next year and announced that the European Union will not change its immigration policy. The fact that Poland and Latvia reviewed their decisions and decided not to accept additional refugees has already been discussed here today. I ask you this: you said that, if there is a need, our government is also prepared to renegotiate these decisions. How many more people will Islamic terrorists have to kill to change Estonia's decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U137	Thank you. Once again, what I have said in the past, both publicly and in this Chamber: please let us not tie these two things together. The attack in Paris was organized and carried out mainly by people living in the European Union who were citizens of some of the countries of the European Union. That's how much information we have for now. There is one suspicion concerning one passport found and one fingerprint, but the participation of those who were citizens of the European Union, either Belgians or French, has been confirmed. There is no reason to link migration and terrorism for political reasons. There is no doubt that the fight against terrorism must be more effective, but please do not link these two issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! It is clear that the two main keywords that have characterised this year are the swine plague and the refugee crisis, when the cold arrives, as are the reliefs. There's already a smaller number of people coming. But it's going to open again in the spring. How does the government intend to act when the next number of refugees have gathered in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U140	Thank you. The Government of the Republic of Estonia definitely intends to stand up for the external borders of the European Union in the European Union. And people who have no right to be in the European Union, who are not war refugees, should be expelled. The readmission policy must work, readmission agreements must exist, there must be a list of safe countries. Border guards must certainly be significantly strengthened at the external borders of the European Union. It would give us confidence, as well as a signal from outside the European Union, that the European Union will not just walk in, that it will not just get here, that it will receive a visa by legal migration, or that international protection will be sought if it does not reach the European Union's borders. But only those who really have an objective basis for international protection will receive international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U141	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. To clarify how many refugees we now have at the Vao Centre. And are there refugees in other parts of Estonia now?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U143	Thank you. Perhaps the Minister of Social Affairs can tell you the exact number, because I do not have a daily overview of Vao's situation. But in addition to Vao's center, where people who don't have to be in a closed facility are waiting for their fate, we have another facility that's closed and what people know as an expulsion center. It is located in Harku, and there are currently about 80 people who are waiting for a judgment or expulsion from those who already have a judgment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U144	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You replied that you do not know how great Estonia's capacity is, because it is not known how many refugees will come. But I think that this ability could still be known to the government. This figure of how many have already come into the European Union and how much more will come is very suspicious. But in terms of what Estonia's capacity is, given our economy, existing buildings and so on, it could be like some kind of imagination.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U146	Thank you. As I said, we have made the current calculations on the basis of what we have agreed in the European Union. But believe me, we really don't know. I don't know, maybe somebody in this hall does, but I don't have that much foresight. And when I look at the concerns of my colleagues, Slovenia, for example, had to face a situation where within three weeks 130000 people entered the country, whose main aim, of course, was to move on to Austria and Germany. However, they had to be able to register a very large number of people, and they had to check these people out. They asked for help and the Estonian team in the form of ESTPOL1 is currently helping on the ground. We can prepare our ability for what we know is coming. What we don't know is very difficult to prepare for.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U147	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U148	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to the Minister for his half-true answers. Let's do this point by point. You replied that Estonia has voluntarily joined the system and voluntarily redistributes immigrants in Europe. In my logic and my mind, this should mean that I voluntarily accept refugees and voluntarily say no. If I want to, I'll take it if I want to, I won't. Then it's voluntary. I say that you see a change in the security situation, in the shadow of refugees, terrorists and other extremists have also come into the European Union. Just the day before yesterday, a terrorist who blew himself up in Paris and killed other people came through Greece. And we have no idea how many of them have actually come. We would therefore have every right to renounce this plan. But what happens then? We're getting a fine because we volunteered not to deal with all of this. There's no volunteer here, it's a real quota system. If you're a bad kid in the eyes of the European Commission, you'll get whipped. I do not like Estonia and this attitude. Second. We're going to meet with our European colleagues, gather impressions of what they think they're feeling. I wonder what it would be like for the French Interior Minister to have 132 people killed in your country. Doesn't feel good. But what rhetoric do we hear from Juncker? We hear that we are not changing our immigration policy. How many people do Islamic extremists and Muslims have to kill so that someone comes back home with a mind to understand that the problem lies in immigration and in all the illusion of multiculturalism that they want to deepen? That's the problem. Try to hide ten terrorists in Põlva. Don't hide! It would seem strange that there are ten different people there. But try to hide them in some slums in the Paris side ghettos! It's very simple. As long as the attitude of countries and the understanding of where all the problems start does not change, nothing will change in Europe as a whole. It's clear to even a small child, but not to ministers. Thirdly, we are talking about capabilities. We are talking about how many immigrants are coming across the Mediterranean because some countries do not fulfil their obligations under the Schengen Agreement to guard the external borders of the European Union and NATO, and simply, with a completely cold nerve, let the masses cross the border and then scream out for solidarity and help us. Only then will we begin to wonder what our ability is. Our capacity is determined by the economic state of our country, our willingness to accept it, and our desire to accept it. I say frankly that I do not want to accept refugees; that our economic opportunities are small, I am not talking. The attitude of the people is also that they do not recommend accepting refugees. But you're talking about our ability depends on how many immigrants come. All this logic is as misguided as it can be. Four. We met on Friday with the Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee in Riga, colleagues there. We heard a very interesting presentation from a professor at the University of Riga. Within two years, 5 million migrants are predicted to arrive in Europe. So this 1.5 million this year is a total joke. And then talking about receiving 550 people in Estonia is bullshit. It's a total blur. Trying somehow to smooth out the picture in the light that it's okay, but we'll sort it out. It's a total lie. And lying's not nice. Especially to your voters, because the voters gave you a mandate. But don't worry! We keep reminding you, and you come here to answer more and more questions. Until 2019, we'll release the same steam. And in 2019, in Stenbock's house, many parties no longer have any business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U149	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U150	Let's move on to today's fifth question. This is the members of the Riigikogu in Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme and Küllik's Hatter. Inquiry on the 22nd day of October 2004 concerning police capabilities, bearing the number 85. Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Artur Talvik, to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U151	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Police and Border Guard Board has been one of the most reformed state agencies since it was established. Since the border guard was abolished and brought together with the police, the membership has been reduced by more than a thousand people. The last part of the reforms of the Police and Border Guard Board took place last year, when 4.5 million euros were saved and 200 people were made redundant. The aim was to channel this money directly into raising the salaries of officials in direct contact with people. There is now such a worrying tendency to seek additional resources for a number of activities, such as the fight against cybercrime. This money should be found by the PBA in its system again. Continuous reform has led the institution to people in a situation where they are under constant stress, they do not know what will happen to them. As a result, the ability to work has fallen and there are such separate jokes that when will the next reform of the PBGB take place? It is as if people have not been able to work much in the same way in the system when a new reform is coming up. Our inquiry concerns questions about the means to increase the efficiency of the work of county police and to curb cybercrime. Certainly, this was not the case in our inquiry, nor would I like to know that if, in the face of a completely novel situation after the events in Paris, Schengen countries were to start to re-establish border guards, then where will these amounts come from? It was an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U152	Thank you! I ask the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, to answer the questioning of the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U153	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! We will certainly be able to table a number of questions during the debate. Since the representative of the heirs did not read the specific questions, I will introduce them myself for the sake of the verbatim. The first question concerned the capacity of the PBGB and the coalition agreement. At this point, I say that not only for me, but for the entire Government of the Republic as a whole, internal security is one of the clearest priorities. If we look at the budget for next year, we will see that internal security investments are high, the amount of additional money allocated to it is fully felt. For the first time in the history of the Republic, we have the opportunity to invest so much to build up the border, this money is EUR 20 million, plus the means of raising staff salaries. With special services, the wage increase is 4%. Since the Police and Border Guard Board does not have all the special servants, the increase is a little less than 4%, but the total amount in question is slightly more than EUR 3 million. If we add more euro funds to it, I dare say that next year the entire Police and Border Guard Board will have an additional resource between EUR 25 million and EUR 30 million, depending on how much euro money will be made available. So it's pretty noticeable growth. If you look at the regional police and the regional approach at all, I'm sure the inquisitors will know that we have a freshly approved new internal security development plan, where community security is very important. As far as cybercrime is concerned, we have a separate action plan for this area up to 2020. Next year, we plan to implement a specific unit, we plan to train cyber forensics capabilities in this unit and, in cooperation with foreign funds, to acquire the necessary resources for this work worth around EUR 300000. If we look at the needs of our cyber unit, we need some EUR 300000 in addition to what we have planned for this unit, and that is the money that we will allocate from our funds. The second question concerned the service halls of the Police and Border Guard Board in the field of documents. On the basis of which decisions were taken, they were asked. Let it be said, as a preliminary point, that the main objective has been to allow for further requests for and receipt of documents in each county. When we take the service halls opened in 2015, Sõle and Vilms hall were in a pretty bad position in Tallinn and therefore they were moved to the Tammsaare business building on 1 November, where modern facilities for servicing people are available. At the beginning of August, the services were also discontinued at the Otepää and Elva constable departments. It should be recalled that the service offered by Otepää, Elva and also in the lobby of the Prefecture building in the North concerned, in particular, the temporary increase in capacity in 2012. The burden on staff increased in the short term, as 2012/2014 had a very large number of people with a deadline for the expiry of documents and it was necessary to formalise and deliver a larger number of documents than usual. As the burden on the staff of the PBGB has been significantly reduced in the following years and the PBGB has set itself the goal of providing a wide range of e-solutions, the working hours have been modified to make working schedules more flexible. The organisation has remained that all Tallinn service halls are open five days a week, plus Pärnu, Tartu, Narva, Jõhvi, Rakvere and Viljandi, four days a week from Monday to Thursday, and Põlva, Võru, Valga, Jõgeva, Haapsalu, Kuressaare, Rapla and Paide service halls are open. In Hiiumaa we offer services three days a week: from Monday to Wednesday. What did it get us? We were able to channel the released resource into other important parts of the work, including the cybersecurity unit. The third question was about what will change for people. I can confirm that the Police and Border Guard Board quite often analyses customer flows of service halls as well as customer feedback. If we take information from the information provided on the homepage of the Police and Border Guard Board via the helpline and service halls, as well as by e-mail, between 1 August 2015 and 4 November 2015, the Police and Border Guard Board has received four complaints regarding the change in the service order. At the same time, nearly 75000 different types of applications have been registered within three months. This gives rise to the claim that most of the customers have not had any serious problems with the changes. But, as I said, we will continue to look for ways to simplify application processes and develop e-services. I'm sure we'll move on this road. The fourth question concerned constables and patrol officers, namely their relationship. I'm sure the inquisitors know that the main objective of creating a precinct-centred county police force was to pool police resources operating on the territory of the county under a single management and thus create a specific responsibility. Before that, in the case of the police sector management system, the resources of the county police were divided between different areas, such as law enforcement, criminal law, citizenship and migration, as well as the police department's buildings were also occupied by officials who were not operationally subordinate to the head of the police department. The system that has been operating for over a year now gives the head of the police station a clear responsibility and also an opportunity to make optimal use of the county police resources. Cross-use is also possible where necessary. This will make it much easier to solve temporary high-volume work assignments, major events, police raids and so on. This gives the station manager the opportunity to do his job more flexibly and, if necessary, to focus more specifically on communities. The fifth question was, how have the precinct started working differently? As I said, the new system has been implemented over the year, and we can say that there has been a significant shift in police regional and patrol activity, particularly in planning. We can plan the work of the patrol police not only on the basis of the challenges faced by the offences, but also, for example, in view of the need to make the police more visible. Perhaps the most obvious example is the same Saturday-Sunday when we needed to re-route resources, particularly to border zones. With a short-term re-routing to Tallinn, it was possible to quickly increase the presence of the police in one place. If we look at the work of the regional police, their tasks have now changed so much that they are primarily responsible for community security. One example: if they previously provided the local government twice a year with a written overview of what is happening in their area, they now have an obligation to go on the ground at least twice a year and talk to people about the "police" view of the security of local life. Contacts with local communities should be quite intensified. The sixth question is about the number of patrols. The number of patrols has remained the same in broad terms. If you look at these reorganisations, 100 police officers are targeted at a higher-intensity patrolman. This is the result of the reorganization of the work of regional police officers and patrol officers. If there was a police officer in a small area in the past, he has now moved to the patrol police and, as a patrol police officer, covers the area and does the work of a district police officer, which is specifically communication. This is what a person does in a larger area, but he communicates, he no longer has patrol duties that he can only focus on community-based security. If I am trying to sum up all of this, of course, with the Police and Border Guard Board, we are constantly monitoring and monitoring the so-called temperature, and we are trying precisely through this new regional police system to get feedback about what local authorities are feeling, whether they are missing something, whether we should make something better for them. I have also tried to talk to the local government leaders myself, and the feedback has been surprisingly positive for me. It is precisely the fact that people are being contacted on the ground and not written reviews are being sent. This has made it significantly better for local governments and the police to get along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U154	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This poor capacity and permanenced restructuring has also led to very tragic consequences: one suicide in the detention chamber, etc. However, given the terrorist attacks in Paris, the question of capacity is extremely important. What further steps are planned to be taken in this regard? What is the preparedness for crisis situations and how does the post-reform structure of the Estonian border guard or the lack of a separate border guard fit into the context of European cooperation? However, it is mostly a single border guard. I would stress here that we need to be prepared to protect Europe's external borders, to cooperate with Frontex, but it cannot be excluded that there is an additional need for border control, which has already emerged in many countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U156	Thank you. Let's start at the border. One could say that we are in a better position than our southern neighbours, for example, in view of the current crisis, with all this migratory pressure. A month ago, there was a meeting between the Baltic States and the police and border guard leaders of Finland. And it became clear that the Latvian border guard does not want to hear about the migration crisis at all, they say that they are dealing with the border, and the issue of migration is not their business. So it fell down like somewhere between two organizations. At the same time, the ESTPOL1 team is currently helping in Slovenia, and Slovenia has exactly the same system as the police and border guard in Estonia. The greatest effect this will have is that the problems can be solved more quickly. Certain topics do not fall between two fields or two silo towers; everything can be solved quickly and operationally. After all, we see that border guard activities do not just mean border action; as compensatory measures, border guard activities also take place in inland areas on a daily basis. It is therefore very reasonable and necessary for the common use of police and border guard resources that resources can be relocated flexibly and quickly. The first part of the question concerned what more needs to be done to be prepared for crisis situations. We'll see how we handle everything. But I see a clear need to increase our rapid response capability and increase the number of rapid response agents. This concerns both Rapid Response Teams and the K Command or Special Forces. The increase in the capacity of the Estonian police is certainly necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U157	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U158	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Thank you for your clear answers. There's one thing that doesn't make sense. The government coalition promised the people involved in internal security a 4% wage increase, but today the wage increase is 3.22%. What's going to happen to 0.78%, or what's going to happen, and why is this difference coming in?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U159	Thank you. I'd love to explain. We agreed in the government that wage increases for cultural workers and teachers with internal security, social welfare workers and higher education will come, and these so-called sectors will be more precisely defined. In the Police and Border Guard Board, this concerned special servants. The Police and Border Guard Board also employs support services who are not employed under the Police and Border Guard Services Act. The percentage of this salary increase was calculated on the basis of the number of special servants. If I take the entire agency's payroll, the entire profession will have a pay rise of 3.32%, if I only take special servants, then they'll even have a little more than 4%. We made such a church in the middle of the village in the area of the Ministry of the Interior that we took all the special servants at the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board and merged the payroll funds. We do not look at the number of special servants in the ministry, how many people we have at work under the Civil Service Act and how many under the Employment Contracts Act. We created the same percentage of salary increases for all the agencies. I hope you have an explanation of how we divided the growth of the payroll between the agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U160	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U161	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of the Interior! The reformers came up with a beautiful image that a constable is like a family doctor and a patrol is an ambulance. The model was that if the constable knows his so-called patients, the family doctor has a couple of thousand patients on the list, but the constable family doctor has 10,000 rounds and makes the diagnosis and starts treating, then the ambulance, or patrol, doesn't have to do so many trips. How has this model worked now? Does an ambulance, i.e. a patrol, have fewer exits and can a family medical officer diagnose and treat their 10,000 patients?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U162	Thank you. It's not a good comparison. Our regional police officer's priority is to ensure security throughout the community. The function of a family doctor is to know the medical condition of each patient. In this sense, this comparison is a little too graphic. Well, that sounds good, but it's not quite catchy. As I replied to the respondents, our interest and goal is that the district police officer, in particular, communicates with local government leaders, knows volunteers operating in the community and communicates with them. He should also be aware of the risks in the community and, consequently, plan the work of patrols. I have said before that, in my opinion, the Police and Border Guard Board, on the organisational side, needs a rest of work, as the inquisitors rightly emphasised. I hope that this year's model will allow us to work calmly for some time, and in a few years we will be able to assess these fruits more accurately. But right now, judging on the feedback received, it seems to me that the district police have started to provide more security in the communities by doing just preventive work. They can focus more on it now, and they don't have to do patrol work.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U163	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U164	Thank you. Here's the question. We know that Estonia sent its police and border guards to help Slovenia. That's right in itself. We, too, support this plan that we are dealing with the problem not at the Estonian border, but at the southern border of the European Union. But the resources of the Police and Border Guard Board are also involved in the work of people and their salaries. How do you combine participation in missions outside Estonia with the fact that the Police and Border Guard Board does not have enough resources to operate in Estonia? Shouldn't this resource be added if we send people on foreign missions?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U165	Thank you. To send our people on a foreign mission, we applied for extra money from the reserve of the Government of the Republic and this money was also allocated to us from the reserve of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U166	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said a few moments ago that we were better off than our southern neighbours. A bit of comfort, but not too much, because if the southern neighbours are unable to control their borders with other neighbours, it may at some point mean that we need to act more resolutely on the southern border, in addition to the eastern border. Do we have any resources for that? Do we have the readiness not only to work, discourage and carry out systematic checks, if necessary, in times of crisis or other emergency situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U168	Thank you. I am delighted that we have given them a good inspiration in our dealings with our southern neighbours. After the Government of the Republic decided to add EUR 20 million to the draft budget for next year for the construction of the eastern border, this issue also arose in the Latvian government office. When I last came in contact with my Latvian colleague, I learned that they will not be able to get EUR 20 million next year to bring the border to a better position with Russia, but they have decided to invest EUR 20 million in it in three years. And my colleague expressed his hope that there might be more money. It should be taken into account that the Latvian land border with Russia is nearly three times longer than that of Estonia. But, of course, it is also our interest that Latvia would do everything to get its border at least as good as Estonia is planning it. If we need to carry out further checks at the southern border, then it all depends on the extent to which it needs to be done. But we tested it last year during President Obama's visit. I assure you, in cooperation with the Defence League, we can do this. But of course, when Schengen is abolished, it means a completely different situation. This means recruiting people again and the Estonian border guard built in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U169	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U170	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There have been thought-provoking cases in your administration. One was when three policemen were investigated and a man shot himself in Haapsalu during that time. A woman hanged herself in a cell waiting for a decision about herself. And there was a gang of about 15 who issued illegal documents. What are your conclusions from these cases and what can be done to prevent such things from happening again? Is this about a few resources? Is this about some ignorance? Something's not right. What are your suggestions so that such things don't happen again? And the ordinary citizen has asked me whether or not to issue these residence permits: are these people still being punished? The impression is that if an official does something illegal, he can do anything. A simple person wants to know if he's equal to an official who's breaking the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U171	Thank you. The examples you give are very, very different. Let's start with this document issue. Of course, we can ensure, for our part, that the Internal Control Office of the police does everything in its power to identify what has happened and take it to the prosecutor's office. It is the duty of the Public Prosecutor's Office to bring it before the Court. Hopefully, the court will assess the evidence objectively and consider it sufficient to impose a penalty on these people. They've committed a crime. Criminal proceedings are ongoing. The law is understood by the court in Estonia, but, of course, the people who committed such a crime are as equal before the law as everyone else in the Republic of Estonia. Being a cop doesn't make their status any different. In fact, being a police officer is, in my opinion, an aggravating circumstance. The policeman was the lawman who made illegal decisions on behalf of the Estonian state, and the abuse of this possibility must under no circumstances go unpunished. As for the other cases, they are also very complicated. I don't want to dissect the details of a police officer's suicide here, but it was generally a personal problem. And that's exactly the same story about the holding cell. Such things have always occurred over time, as is the case with road accidents. We all have accidents from time to time, and crimes are still committed. My first conclusion, however, is certainly that the Estonian police are strong enough to prevent any form of circular protection in the event of violations of the law from being inside the police. Secondly, with regard to deaths such as those that are now in the police holding cell, there is no way that the police can say that they are not going to change anything. They have to make a difference, and as far as I know, there's been a lot of police work going around because of this case. The main conclusion is that the police must be able to learn, and on the basis of the decisions that have been made, I have had the hope and also the belief that the Estonian police can learn, can change and, if necessary, admit their mistakes. That's a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U172	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We all know that the situation in Europe and in the rest of the world will change not only in days but also in hours. If the Schengen free space is abolished for certain reasons, will Estonia be able to introduce full border controls? How quickly could this happen, and what would it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U174	Thank you. Of course, Estonia is capable of doing so. Estonia was able to give it up, and of course Estonia is able to re-create it. There's no question. In order to achieve the first full control on the southern border of Estonia, we need three-four-five days. I believe that Estonia is one of the fastest here when we talk about the European Union as a whole. Estonia still has everything nicely in its memory, we have border crossing points and we know how to close the border. But it must be taken into account that this is quite expensive fun, which requires an amount of EUR 100000 per day when it is a temporary restoration. If it were a backup, of course the amounts would be different. We know that because of guarding the eastern border.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U175	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U176	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Several people who committed brutal acts of terror in Paris had received European citizenship or refugee status from extremists who were considered to be integrated into society, so that they were not suspected. To what extent are such districts in Estonia under control? How sure can we be that those we can't suspect will not turn out to be extremists? And if they have evil plans, we can prevent them from doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U177	It's a very complicated question. The Defence Police, which is primarily responsible for ensuring constitutional order and combating terrorism in Estonia, naturally have an overview of the risk groups that pose the greatest threat. That's the day-to-day job the defense police do. The Defence Police do not need to distinguish what religion people are when it comes to constitutional order and fighting terrorism. It is important to ensure the security of the Estonian state. I can assure you here that the defense police have given me proper reviews, but since these reviews are under the red temple, unfortunately, I can't completely dissect them all in public.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U178	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Would the Minister like to make a final statement? No, I don't. We have discussed the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U179	We will proceed to the sixth item on the agenda: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru, Henn Põllea and Arno Silla concerning the investigation of the fire at Vao Centre and the harassment of anti-mass migration activists. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for the Interior. Please speak on behalf of the heirs, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U180	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I will read about the questioning of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to the Minister of the Interior about the fire at Vao Centre. On 25 September 2015, Paide police conducted a search and interrogation of a well-known anti-mass migration activist in the social network near Reimo Sillamaa. There were over 18,000 fans on the Facebook page "Against the Refugees" created by the bridgeland, but the police closed the page and it has not been opened. The search and interrogation of the bridgeland took place in connection with a misdemeanor procedure involving incitement to hatred. It has also been threatened to ban the new group Pegida Estonian that she created against mass migration. On 14 October 2015, the police apprehended Martin Kattai, an anti-Migration activist, who was subsequently banned from taking part in events on the subject and being close to the Prime Minister. In this context, we ask the Minister to answer the following questions: What is the most recent information on investigating the fire at Vao Center? I hope this information isn't under the red stamp. Do the police have any specific suspects? Are we expecting an accusation against someone? Is this search and interrogation of social media group activists appropriate to the rule of law, which recognises democracy and pluralism? In particular, we point out that we believe that certain principles apply selectively in Estonia. Not all anger promoters are treated with equal rigour. Why have the same measures as search and interrogation not been used in the Russian Delfi commentary on a large number of people who have taunted the Estonian state and the people? We also point out that there have been several threats of killing against members of our party in this same commentary. Can you confirm that there will be no political pressure on the agencies in your administration in connection with the fire at Vao Centre? Doesn't the Minister think he's involved in creating a climate of fear and bringing civil society to a close in Estonia when he's been led by the ministry's power departments to carry out searches and other acts of maladministration against citizens who criticise the government's migration policy? I know more or less what the Minister is going to say, but I want to emphasise one thing. I want to emphasise what we want to hear from the Minister. We want to hear that our country's power structures do not deal selectively with the fight against crime. If someone does something illegal, of course it must be stopped and punished. But we must not work in such a way that for those who are critical of the government in their actions, a paragraph is found, but not for those who threaten the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U181	Thank you. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U182	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll try to answer you quickly. The questions are short in most, and so the answers will be short. First of all, what is the most recent information about the fire at Vao Center? As a reminder, during Question Time, we briefly addressed this issue. Unfortunately, there is currently no very clear knowledge of this event. The police have checked all the leads, and unfortunately there is no new information to share. The second question is whether there are specific suspects. So far, no one has been found to be a suspect, which also gives rise to a third question as to whether an accusation is to be expected. The prosecution can be expected when the suspect exists. So far, there is no suspect, so no charges have been brought against anyone. The fourth question is procedural measures. Procedural procedures in misdemeanour proceedings are, of course, carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I can confirm that procedural procedures are carried out irrespective of who they are. Question 5: Why have similar measures not been applied to other claimants? Under § 151 (1) of the Penal Code, misdemeanour proceedings are opened in cases where there are reasonable grounds for believing that an act of incitement to hatred endangers the life, health or property of a person. This assessment is made on a case-by-case basis and it is clear that there are no identical vital cases. It is therefore not appropriate to state in general terms that the various comments written in the Russian Delfis are comparable to the case of Reimo Sillamaa. Reimo Sillamaa's assessment of the activities was based, among other things, on the content of responses to Facebook posts, which, with their violentness, indicated the possibility of a real threat, and on information known to the police about the general behaviour of Reimo Sillamaa. As a result of the evaluation, the defendant took the view that the activities of Reimo Sillamaa were misdemeanours and therefore a misdemeanour procedure had to be initiated. The proceedings were carried out with a view to clarifying the circumstances surrounding Reimo Sillamaa's activities and to gathering both incriminating and justifying evidence. It must be said that even in the case of misdemeanour proceedings, the search is carried out only with the permission of the judge and, of course, the judge will check the merits of the search before granting the authorisation. Question 6: Can I confirm that there is no political pressure on the agencies in my administration? Of course, I can confirm that the Police and Border Guard Board carries out criminal proceedings in accordance with the law and independently. Question seven. The heirs are concerned about creating a climate of fear. Once again, I stress that the search and misdemeanour proceedings were carried out with the permission of the judge, as prescribed by the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. Therefore, the appointment of a procedural act as an act of maladministration is, in my view, clearly inappropriate and also incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U183	Thank you. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U184	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! I'd tie these things together. We all remember that Vaos barely had the guns out when everyone already knew who was responsible. Perhaps you are not specifically responsible, but the entire cabinet of ministers has already condemned the entire Estonian people for this. It's been months now, but we don't even have any doubts. We were joking in our group that if you don't know the name, at least give us the badge number. You're talking about the risk being assessed on a case-by-case basis. But especially in the case of Kattai, but also in the case of Sillamaa, there is no indication that these specific Facebook posts or messages that were sent, as far as I have read them, at least some of them were public, that they pose a threat to anyone, especially the Prime Minister, who has a security team. We still need to consider their actions and action against them in terms of people's freedom of expression...
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U185	Dear colleague, please state the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U186	...in context. Don't you think the police have overreacted?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U187	Like I said, the police are looking at each case separately. As for Martin Kattai, I asked the police for an additional explanation. And the police assured me that the police have not banned Martin Kattail from taking part in future events. Apparently, he misunderstood the ban on his presence, which applied only to a particular event. That's an explanation from the police. I am convinced that the Estonian police will make their decisions to initiate or not initiate misdemeanour proceedings in accordance with the law and completely independently and independently.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U188	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U189	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Last week, we read in the media that the police were investigating threats to the death of an EKRE man directed at the Prime Minister. The person in question has never been a member of the EKRE and there is nothing simpler than checking it from the commercial register. I wonder which made this false claim, whether the police lied to the media or lied to the Estonian Express, spreading baseless slander.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U190	Thank you. Can't answer that question, you must ask the Estonian Express.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U191	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We were here to remind you of the Vao case. Unfortunately, the perpetrator has not been identified, and so we cannot talk about the specific individuals who made it. However, everyone hastened to sink under the ground out of embarrassment and was ashamed of how intolerant he was for the Estonian people. Here's my question. Just now, there was an incident in Harku detention facility, in which a person from Congo attacked Estonian police officers and 20 Muslims protested in support of him. Wouldn't it be appropriate to be embarrassed by such racist behavior? Our police officers were attacked.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U193	Thank you. I didn't exactly understand the point of your question. The story was that a document was brought to the man from Congo for inspection and he had to go down to the lower floor of the building to check it out, but he opposed it. However, he needed to be introduced to this document, and then there was the so-called protest that the police had solved. You can't talk about any racist behavior here. The police solved the situation, which was their job. And they did it quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U194	Thank you. There are no further questions for you, Minister. Let's open the negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U195	I would like to thank the Minister, at least by answering the first questions of our inquiry, he did help to clarify. As we pointed out in our questions, a very large part of the society in Estonia's current power was immediately ready to name and condemn the guilty. This fault, of course, was collectively on the back of the entire Estonian people. An investigation has now taken place and it has become clear that we do not really know what the motive for the attack was, who carried it out or what was happening there. In this connection, I would very much like to hear an apology from the people who slandered the Estonian people immediately after Vao was arsonized. I really want to hear it. However, answering our questioning to the other side is a serious problem. I talked to Martin Katta today and asked what was his fault. It is his fault that he has sent a letter to a member of the Reform Party's group, in which he played in words, as if the head of a dead horse should be placed in the bed of Taavi's garment. So this is what the police think is a threat to the life and health of the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister, as we know, as we have heard from the very top of the Riigikogu, we do not have a normal person, but is moving with the cortage and security. But this sentence led to a search at Kattai's home, his rented apartment, his parents' cabin, and his wife's work. That is then a proportionate response from the police to a letter saying that there should be a mare in the prime minister's bed. If this isn't a state-of-the-state-hard punching, then what is it? In the case of Reimo Sillamaa, there is even less evidence that he threatened something or anyone. The person, together with many other Estonian people, expressed frustration in a very aggressive tone, probably because of the immigration policy of Estonia's current government. Yes, we know he has been punished for a crime, but in this case, we have just heard confirmation that a specific threat situation is always assessed, we do not see a real, real threat. That's at least for those Facebook messages that can't be read today. Again, we are seeing a clear pattern of the use of political hard fists by the Home Office's authorities against people who criticise government policies. At the same time, nothing is done to prevent people who threaten me personally, for example, the chairman of our party, who every day sow hatred between nations in the Russian-speaking commentary of Delfi. Nothing will be done because the police believe that there is no threat. It is a double standard, it is two-faced and it is not a rule of law. If the rules do not apply in the same way to everyone, then there is no point in talking about the rule of law. This is a very serious problem and creates a climate of fear in Estonia. It undermines democracy and undermines the credibility of the government. We can't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U196	Thank you. There's no more calls. The Minister does not want to speak either. That is what we have discussed today's sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U197	We will proceed to the seventh item, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Märt Sults, Heimar Leng, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laas, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps and Kadri Simson concerning the value of the work of kindergarten teachers. It is presented to the Minister of Education and Research. In the name of the heirs, please speak to March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U198	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I will present another question, i.e. not the first question about the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers. Early childhood education teachers, or kindergarten teachers, receive their qualifications from a university just as the rest of the teachers do. Kindergarten teachers have the same responsibility for children as school teachers. Teacher qualifications and refresher training and other quality assurance requirements apply to both school teachers and kindergarten teachers. However, in contrast to school teachers, minimum wage levels are not guaranteed for kindergarten teachers. Our group has proposed an improvement on the budget for next year, which is EUR 15.2 million in order to have some kind of money to ensure a minimum wage for kindergarten teachers. Let's see how this goes. The minimum wage rate for kindergarten teachers varies from country to country to region of EUR 150, 160 or 170. And it is an objective reality that a kindergarten teacher's salary is well below the teacher's minimum wage, which is currently EUR 900. Let's see what happens next. Here are the following questions. 'Why and for what reasons the state cannot set minimum rates of pay for kindergarten teachers (which would make perfect sense. M.S., M.S., M.S., ' 'Why can't a teacher's salary with a pedagogical higher education that meets the qualification requirements be brought to the same level as a basic school teacher? 'Why can't kindergarten teacher's holidays be equal to teacher's? ' And finally, I have launched a petition with the signature of the circuit 2000. The petition seeks to establish a minimum wage for kindergarten teachers by the state. What do I say to the kindergarten teachers who joined the petition, trusted, asked for help, and reached out to the country? There's no one else to reach out to. Or there's another way to put a parent in his pocket. We have such a high average salary! Such questions are and would like concrete, precise answers. Why doesn't the state do it? Let the state not say that this is a local government matter! It's not a local government thing. Local authorities do not have an equal income base because the state took away the income base at the time of the recession, has not yet restored it and are not going to restore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U199	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm going to the questions right now. 'Why and for what reasons can the state not set minimum rates of pay for kindergarten teachers? " It cannot be determined by law; it is governed by the Preschool Children's Institution Act, which says that the minimum rate must be agreed between representatives of municipalities and teachers, including the representatives of kindergarten teachers. However, it cannot be another way of being a municipality, and it must have power of decision over its own budget. Of course, the proposed administrative reform (which I hope you will support) will also provide them with more likely opportunities to make choices in their budgets. 'Why can't a teacher's salary with a pedagogical higher education that meets the qualification requirements be brought to the same level as a basic school teacher? ' Yes, it can, if it is agreed in this way, but it is not quite the same in these areas. Although kindergarten teachers are required not to have a Master's degree but to have a higher education in September 2013, which in itself could also be a pressurer of wage increases, it is likely that wages are somewhat inert. I heard that Tallinn is probably raising the pay of kindergarten teachers, which is very nice, because Tallinn has not been very good on this table compared to the average wage here. 'Why can't kindergarten teacher's holidays be equal to teacher's? " The reason is certainly the different nature of the work, even at the beginning of the academic year. In one case, there is a summer break, in the other case, for kindergartens, the academic year will run from 1 September to 1 September. And it also allows parents to regulate their work more effectively. However, the longer leave for kindergarten teachers is 42 days. But neither can it be that we decide at national level that kindergartens are not open and that parents cannot work. It must be a local deal. Finally, 'What do you say to the kindergarten teachers who have signed the petition? ' I don't think there's anything they can do about it once they sign. But I have told them directly, without any petitions, what I think of their ability to influence their pay. I wish them strength in the negotiations! And I wish the local authorities would grow. I am trying to deal with administrative reform, and there are things in our area of administration that will reduce the costs of local governments. So, in fact, they must have the strength to pay better wages in this area. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U201	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! If the municipality is unable to provide kindergarten places for all children, it is legally possible to require the difference between the prices of private day-care centres and municipal day-care centres, either by court or by other agreements, from the local government. How, then, can the difference between a kindergarten teacher and a municipal school teacher exist legally so that the kindergarten teacher has no protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U203	Thank you. I guess I didn't exactly catch up on the introduction to this question, but paying off this difference isn't unnatural in itself. However, the shortage of kindergarten places is mainly a problem in those municipalities where the number of taxpayers has recently increased and where tax revenues are higher and where there are more younger people. So, in general, this shortage of places is not particularly correlated with municipal poverty, but rather with prosperity, if you allow it to be used here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U204	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In 2008, the government proposed the possibility of harmonising the pay of kindergarten teachers with the minimum wage for school teachers and promised to compensate for it. And that's what he did for a year and a half. Has the government been talking about helping local governments to pay or compensate for the salaries paid to kindergarten teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U206	Thank you. I have already answered all these questions. I can also confirm that decisions could still be taken in 2008, which are not currently feasible. In general, all decisions made in the boom mood must be reviewed. If they're still unrevised, they need to be reviewed, checked. I certainly wouldn't like to hear so many references from this Riigikogu hall that there used to be, why isn't there any more. We have both increased our well-being and the state's wisdom over time, and we will no longer make promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U207	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U208	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When I look at the average salary of a kindergarten teacher in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa, the difference is 150 euros. How do you even comment on such a big difference? 150 Estonian kroons have gone, but if we take the Estonian kroons, we will honestly say that it is a lot of money. It could buy something or get a service somewhere. I'd like to hear your comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U209	Thank you. As a local ambassador, make a commitment to this matter. Convince municipalities that kindergarten teachers deserve better pay. I agree with this opinion to join in loudly if you give it a chance. But I can't make decisions for local governments, and it's essentially a self-governing function. This is how it is handled everywhere in Europe, and we should not be so smart here in Toompea that we are trying to direct everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U210	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U211	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If you look at the same comparative table as regards the salaries of kindergarten teachers, the average wage here is €600-700. This is a relatively low salary for a highly educated person. As your former Minister of Finance, do you not think that it is still the right time to provide local authorities with financial autonomy, because it is their responsibility to decide on the amount of wages and to increase their budgets by increasing the rate of refund of income tax? We have had rhetoric here in recent times that the budgets of local governments have increased. They have grown, but the state budget has grown much faster than they have. In this sense, local authorities are actually lagging behind in growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U212	Thank you. Several mistakes were correct in this regard. I don't know if you'll notice such a thing, but first you can schedule someone whose budget has grown faster. In general, it is not true that the state budget has grown faster. Secondly, financial autonomy doesn't mean what you're implying here, that we're writing down a minimum wage to the municipality, so keep paying. This would certainly be contrary to financial autonomy and there were more details. Financial autonomy is free to decide for itself. That is why I do not understand these enquiries why they are raining in one direction: the municipality is in trouble and the state will pay for it. In general, this is not the case with the division of labour between the central government and the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U213	Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U214	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We do not need to prove mutually that the local government's income base depends on the will of the state. Once, the rate of income tax of local governments was 11.93, which was moved to 11.4, and it has not been restored. And now to say that no municipality wants to pay the kindergarten teachers' wages is a little strange. If you look at this table, it probably doesn't matter whether there has been a central party or a reform party government, the money simply hasn't been available to the municipalities. And, unfortunately, the salary is expensive; it is expensive for both the entrepreneur and the municipality, because the salary comes with certain taxes. Some sort of solution should be found, because it's not really people's fault. If there were any big scissors or gaps, but in fact, all kindergarten teachers have a steady low salary. Do you admit there's a problem with the municipal income base?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U215	Thank you. No, I won't. I don't think we should increase the tax burden any more. The income base of municipalities is now growing faster than the income base of the central authority and income tax revenue is better than expected in the budget. And so he is. They always say there's a faucet where you can turn. Everyone goes by the way it is private schools, it's the municipalities, it's some other field, and no one makes any choice. They pick theme by theme, and all in that direction, why don't you give me the money? I think that this spirit could withdraw a little from this hall, and every party could have some kind of weather vision, where it really sets priorities, just as every government needs to set priorities. That's for real.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U216	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister! I'm gonna take a chance that maybe I can fight because I'm coming back to the same subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U218	You can't!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U219	This issue has been a bit over here, but, despite and inspired by how you already agreed to make a joint statement on the Valeri Korb question and sign it, I will put my question. Are you also willing to sign such a joint statement that the state must provide local authorities with an adequate income base independent of the central authority for the performance of their tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U220	Thank you. It's taken from somewhere in the Constitution or the Charter. I may not recognize the exact wording, but I think it's from the charter. This is a very abstract declaration and can mean very different things in different countries. I can confirm this charter, but these standards of adequacy still correspond to the country's overall prosperity. And municipalities don't live so badly if they're not too small, they don't have to hear complaining all the time and tune themselves against the state. We let them decide and let them calculate within the limits of the wallet they have, just as the state must do.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U221	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U222	Thank you. Dear Minister, If the vision of the Ministry of Education is that school teachers should pay 20% higher than the average wage of the country, what is your ideal vision, what could be the pay of a kindergarten teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U223	Thank you. I don't have visions. I have my own competences and I propose policies within these limits. I certainly do not present visions to the municipalities whose autonomy is sacred to me. I've fought some pretty awesome battles lately here, and I've explained it to politicians. I really think that the municipality must be able to decide for itself. I have an inner feeling of being a citizen, but I shouldn't have a formal feeling.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U224	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U225	Honourable President-in-Office! Colleagues, thank you for bringing education to the table at night. The city of Tallinn, yes, has assumed the duties of the state and the city of Tallinn, yes, will raise the salaries of teachers from next year. The central party city of Tallinn thus fulfills the electoral promises of Sotsi and Reformers and is trying to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers to 900 euros. State okay, please, so hard-core brother, and let him now comply with the law he has issued, with the law of primary school and high school. Kindergarten teachers have been given the responsibility to ensure, and they also have to fix, that the child is ready for school, that is, their task is to prepare for school. And kindergartens are dumping children so they can get into so-called good schools. Where has it ever been seen that a child in the last group of kindergartens must be able to solve an unknown equation? But it's the reality in Tallinn that 3 plus x is equal to 5 and they ask what x is equal to. I have a personal experience with my granddaughter now in preschool education and there is such dumping. I'll keep asking. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act does not require a child to know anything before coming to school, because the school is for the child to study there. Isn't that right? And now if you claim that the person who teaches the child and prepares him for school does not deserve the name of the teacher or the salary of the teacher, then something is extremely wrong. I mean, it's a sacred state for you, and it's a sacred state constitution for us, and for school people, the basic school and upper secondary school law is important. Why aren't you following your own law? And why don't you look at your laws adequately? You fill them selectively. Tallinn, yes, he was able to do it, but he's doing it for something. If he's raising the pay of kindergarten teachers now, there's something he's not doing, because the wallet is one, and the wallet doesn't grow. You yourself claimed that the local income base is growing faster than the state budget, but it is demagoguery again because it cannot be measured until the year is over. Whether there's money coming or not, no one knows. Tallinn took the risk, hoping that the country would come with us. But it turns out now that the country doesn't come along, the country doesn't care. Local authorities come out with their own, while they agree with kindergarten teachers how to pay them or how much money a person is willing to sell himself. He doesn't sell himself 35 hours a week, he sells himself 41 or 50 hours a week, he lives in this thing. Yeah, maybe he doesn't need the money because he doesn't have time to spend the money. But why play for it? So I don't understand why the state doesn't want to pay the difference between the teacher's minimum wage and the amount that the local government can pay out to the kindergarten teacher. That's 150 euros, right? It's two and a half thousand crowns in the crowns. Two and a half thousand kroons was once a one and a half principal's salary. It wasn't that little. I do not understand why the state does not see this possibility here, after all, in terms of resources, it is actually not beyond comprehension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U226	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. The debate on the seventh item is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U227	We will proceed to the eighth item, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mailis Repsi, Kadri Simson, Toomas Vitsuti, Peeter Ernitsa, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhin to the Minister of Education and Research Jürgen Ligi. In the name of the heirs, please speak to March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U228	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry is addressed to Mr Jürgen Ligi. And Mr. Jürgen Ligi is representing the country now. Now it's a thought break. The hysterical promise of the Socialist elections was that teachers' salaries would rise to 20% above the average wage in the country, i.e. EUR 1560 should be paid by teachers after a period of time. On the basis of the state budget and hearing the current discussions, it can be said that the number of ministerial funds will in principle fall by 2.9%, which was intended for wages. Now, if you think about the law of thermodynamics, there is no eternal motion and there is no reverse machine. In fact, you can put something upside down and then say it doesn't work the right way. So reverse politics is pretty cool. People let themselves be fooled, with numbers and percentages, they can spin, they can be screwed, but they always do not say one thing about which percentage is taken. Pay goes up 20%, but what about? As of today, the minimum wage rate for teachers that will apply from 1 January has not been stated. It will soon be the end of November, the new year will come, and in January, the teacher will want to know how much he will receive. Today he doesn't know it, even models he doesn't know. This is where our questions come from. 'What is the minimum wage for basic school and upper secondary school teachers meeting the qualification requirements in 01.01.2016? ' I would remind you that the basic school teacher's normal load is agreed to be 24 hours (in upper secondary school, the load varies). The school must have 24 pupils and 32 students in upper secondary school to ensure that the salary is guaranteed. This means that upper secondary school costs 25% less. Where's the pay gap coming from? It's a matter of combining at the headmaster's border. 'What methodology will the minimum wage rate be based on? " What is the work of a teacher, and by what means is he paid? Instead of the promised 4% wage increase, teachers will receive a 3% wage increase as of today (since this is an inquiry in October, there may be a percentage shift, because things have changed). And where is the 4% that was promised to be guaranteed? This morning, the Committee on Culture was told that the salary increase is 1.2%. But it's, let's say, a cost-a-ear story level. Based on the audit of the National Audit Office, the question arises as to why the Estonian educational landscape does not have the principle of equal competition. Why does the PGS, or basic school and upper secondary school law, not apply equally to all institutions providing basic education? It has turned out that in eight schools, financial discipline is severely violated, but nothing will happen again. Those who work honestly get heads and feet, but those who do a little bit of tricks get good. They are told that we are setting the law around, we do not need such a rigid basic school and gymnasium law, let him get a little bumpy around here and there and where the dough is, we have to take it, and that's it. How many current accounting laws do we have in Estonia? As a result of what I said earlier, we have an accounting law for elite schools (we do not have elite schools in PGS), then the Accounting Act is for ordinary or municipal schools and there is the Accounting Act for kindergartens. In addition, the Accounting Act is also the General Accounting Act for the children of the Riigikogu children, the grandchildren of the Riigikogu children, and the grandchildren of the Riigikogu children. How many accounting laws are prescribed in our country for educational institutions or how multi-layered is this accounting law? Or what formula can be used to fund and hide tuition fees for institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U229	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question I have left is here, let's see where he is right now. 'What is the minimum wage for basic school and upper secondary school teachers meeting the qualification requirements in 01.01.2016? The answer is, " I don't know yet. ' It is certainly still up to the Riigikogu to discuss here, and most importantly, what I put to your heart if you take this issue seriously, please note that salary can only be raised by permanent sources. I also offer two permanent sources in the form of drafts to the Riigikogu. One is the organisation of the funding provided for in the Private Schools Act, which could pay teachers more than 3% of their salary. Although a temporary cover has now been found, this does not mean that long plans can be made with a temporary wage cover. Besides, this temporary payroll came from our own budget. The second source is the part of the investment component, where there is about 1.2% in the so-called salary. Thus, almost 5% of teachers' salaries depend on these two drafts. The government has also allocated us 2.3% extra money in the context of this 4% talk, and we also have internal resources, but it is still early to talk about the end result. Anyway, as you know, I'm not happy with the situation. Secondly, 'What methodology does the minimum wage rate develop? ' This is an agreement based on budgetary possibilities, and the principle is that 20% of the money left for manoeuvring and the minimum wage is the bulk of the wage fund. Third: 'Instead of the 4% wage increase allowed, teachers receive a 2.9% wage increase. What should be the number of contact hours for teachers? ' I have never actually promised 4%. I received less than 4% of the money in my budget because the increase in the number of students was not taken into account. But I am now aware of the official number of students as of November 10, the latest data has not yet arrived. But, as I mentioned, there are other payrolls for which I expect support from the Riigikogu. There's no mention of 2.9%. The reduction in the entire education budget is, indeed, the result of some of the unnecessary cuts that the Ministry of Finance has made in our draft budget, but above all, it is projects in the euro area that cannot be used to raise wages anyway. Moreover, the minimum rate of pay for teachers is not linked to the number of contact hours and, as you know, it takes account of the 35-hour working time, which is called reduced working time. That's all I've been talking about here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U231	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U232	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You've just arranged for municipalities to be unable to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers. But I'm asking what's happened to the country. You have made big promises and somebody got votes on these promises in the elections, but in 2016, the minimum wage for teachers will not reach, or let's not talk about the minimum, nor will their average wage reach the Estonian average, let alone 120% of the Estonian average. At the same time, you actually acknowledge that you are taking away the pay of kindergarten teachers, because you are reducing the income base of local governments by 2.3 million euros, the investment component is currently part of the municipal income base and you are putting on the local authorities to cover the operating costs of private schools, which is an additional cost. Where, then, should the money come from to the municipalities for the pay of kindergarten teachers? You are saying one thing, but you are doing the opposite, and in fact you are reducing the income base of local governments in the same way, which should be paid by kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U233	Thank you. I think every one of your sentences should be contradicted, but I don't remember them all. First of all, I have not serialized the municipalities that they do not pay, and yet I have admitted that the education budget does not satisfy me. The income base of the municipalities is not reduced. The history of the local governments' revenue base is that during the crisis, part of it was taken back from there, compared to how much it was destined to rise. And it wasn't natural that he was meant to rise like this. I didn't agree with that decision when it was made. I'm guessing it was 2004. So I did not agree with this decision in principle, and during the crisis we saw that I was entitled to preferential funding for municipalities could not continue on this schedule. Some were withdrawn, not all of them, and part of this base has been restored. This percentage is no longer 11,4 (i now say by head) but about 11.6. But what exactly did you ask? I can't tell anymore. There were a number of reproaches that I am willing to reject one by one.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U234	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U235	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You mentioned, which is quite right, that education was given less money than the state budget for the new year, and that is very unfortunate. As we know, the Ministry of Finance is currently in the hands of a partner in another government coalition, but the coalition agreement has been concluded in cooperation with three parties and as a joint agreement with the perspective of four years of government in the best possible way. However, at least next year will not be able to secure the basic promises set out in the coalition agreement. Do you share my view that the promises that the three parties put together in a single agreement were too ambitious and that, consequently, what was originally promised could not be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U236	Thank you. They were ambitious, but they are enforceable. The problem is that the coalition that started the first budget process did not succeed in my opinion. The good practices that are foreseen to deal with the education budget were not implemented, and that is why we are not on this 120% pay schedule that we have set ourselves. But I have already received feedback from the coalition that, in the debate on the country's budgetary strategy for next year, this issue will be taken seriously into the agenda and set as a target, so I expect a 120% salary by 2019 as foreseen by the schedule I have drawn up. The rise will just be slower in the beginning and faster in the future, starting in 2017. What else? Of course, this is far from the only budget problem our ministry has. I don't want to talk about teachers' wages all the time either. We also have science, we also have higher education institutions and other areas that all require attention. It's not gonna stop if we set a teacher's pay schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U237	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I also had a fourth question. You did not mention that, based on the audit of the National Audit Office, the question arises as to why the principle of equal competition does not apply to the landscape of municipal education in Estonia. Why does the PGS not apply equally to all institutions providing basic education? In eight schools of general education, financial discipline was severely violated and nothing followed. There was a debate, and that was it. Is it because the directors of these schools are in the right party?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U239	Thank you. I don't think they're all in your party. But if you want to deal with some audits, let's look at him. I don't recognize this complaint right now. I'm sure you didn't make it up, so I guess there's a paragraph. So I'm gonna have to see what the content of this complaint is. I know something about these audits, but right now I don't recognize these eight schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U240	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You've been very sarcastic with all of us today and you've answered our questions. I'd like to boost your memory a little bit, too. This income tax rate rose from 11.4% to 11.6% only because the land tax was added to this component. But actually, I'd like you to answer Tarmo Tamme's question to the end. If local authorities are incompetent and unable to raise the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers, what has happened to the country that it is unable to raise the pay for school teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U242	Thank you. If I'm being sarcastic, how do I deal with those questions that literally repeat the previous ones I've already answered? I guess it gets a little annoying that you don't have any new ideas. I have also answered this question that I am not happy with this budget. There's no spending money, it's just going into areas that I don't consider most important. I also said, at the time of the coalition agreement, that there is too much emphasis on cash rather than on services and vision. I am certainly thinking about education and science. But the government has also listened to my voice in the autumn, and I think that we all share the same understanding that the budget cannot simply have an accounting approach. Neither did I, even though I was told I was an accountant. I have never kept a book, although I have mastered it, but I have recognised the priorities of the government coalitions and, accordingly, have come up with projects and amendments. This, I think, is already being taken into account during the next country's budget strategy. It just got a little out of hand, yeah. But we will do our best, we will do our utmost, and we will certainly try to achieve as much as we can at the moment in terms of teachers' pay schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U243	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Colleagues Märt Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U244	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I'm getting emotional right now. Unfortunately, I have to tell Mr. Ligi that there will be similar questions, word for word, comma-comma and point-to-point, on the robin. To the first question of what is and what will be the pay of teachers from 1 January 2016, I did not receive an answer. I did not get an answer to the question of what, on the basis of the methodology, the minimum wage rate would be. The promised 4% question is all right, there was a number confusion, because time has passed, but I still didn't get an answer. This audit of the National Audit Office was presented in the Committee on Cultural and Educational Affairs, where you were also present, and I also did not receive an answer. You've been telling me, not me, but us colleagues, some kind of story that I don't know where you're taking information from. The fifth question was how many current accounting laws exist in Estonia. I didn't get an answer again. You could have said that one is, and I would have been quite happy with it, because then everyone should have the same thing. There would then be the same penalties for the same infringements and the same rewards for the same successful actions. I would have been very pleased with the answer. Let us now go to the issue of local governments. Once again, the city of Tallinn has taken the heart of fulfilling the electoral promise of Sots and Reformers. The city of Tallinn has committed itself to raising the teachers' salary by 12 to 12.5% next year. The city of Tallinn is doing the work of the state again, and the state says why, for fuck's sake, Tallinn is sticking its nose in the affairs of the state. Yeah, he does, if he does so much country work, then he can stuff it. I guess who pays, orders music, huh? That's right. I asked what the future of the schools was, where the rules of financial discipline were seriously violated, as shown by the audit results. And I asked if maybe the leaders of these schools weren't in the right party. Mr. Ligi said yes, they're not in the Centre Party. Now that was the heartfelt right answer! So they're in the right parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U245	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U246	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! For several hours there has been a debate between the Minister and members of the Riigikogu on various topics and it has to be said that the time is such that everyone's emotions may go too high. But next year's education budget is certainly what we will be discussing on Wednesday at second reading of the draft state budget. If we look at the work of the new coalition, of course the education community's attention was focused on who would be the next Minister of Education and Science. It must be said that there were certainly not many people who could have predicted that it was Jürgen Ligi. For Jürgen Ligi's advantages and disadvantages, we were able to read quite a lot about the press and educational forums. The greatest hope for the education community was that they would have a finance minister who could read money and if he could already write things down to other ministries, he would now also know when to call the right person in the Ministry of Finance and arrange things. But the fact that we are reaching a situation where we are taking the state budget apart and seeing the position of education in relation to other ministries, that its budget comes with a minus, was not foreseeable. This raises the question, which I am sure the current minister knows in the light of this very debate on teachers' pay, whether it was not the intention to save money to appoint someone with experience as Minister of Education and Research. And I have to say, I don't have a good answer today. We will certainly hear both in the Committee on Culture and in the debate on enquiries that one document or another has not been found within a month or that the Minister is not quite sure how these things work. Of course, we can talk like this in general, but the main question is why is that? Why are we facing the problem of education being quite an accident in the debate on next year's budget, despite the fact that we are dealing with the former Minister of Finance? And when it comes to teachers' salaries for next year, it is kind of unfair that teachers' salary increases will be linked to the issue of whether the Riigikogu is prepared to take away operating support from private schools and to redefine the investment component. Look, this is another place where they say we don't really have any money, but let's take this education away from other areas and move it up to raise the minimum wage. This is something we saw here in the previous Riigikogu for almost four years. Neighbors, husbands, friends, even your parents and grandparents knew that wages would rise. Except when you went to the ATM and looked at the account statement or took out the money, you saw that your income had decreased. Now this is a brilliant mathematical review, which, unfortunately, cannot be said to be just teachers' salaries. Exactly the same can be said today by scientists, university lecturers and many other people in the field of education. It is as if we are constantly raising wages and increasing the budget, only that the sum of people's incomes and so-called real money are decreasing. I hope that, in the light of 2017, the Minister of Education and Science will find this house that has already been demolished, gets together with friends of his Ministry of Finance and is able to disprove the rumors in the educational forums that in fact, the former Minister of Finance became Minister of Education only in order to save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U247	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. The debate on the eighth item is therefore over.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U248	We will go to the ninth and final item on the agenda of the Riigikogu members Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Lauri Laas, Andrei Novikov, Jaanus Karilaidi, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Erki Savisaare, Priit Toobali, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa and Kadri Samson, which presented an inquiry into the concentration of posts in the Ministry of Education and Research. It is presented to the Minister of Education and Research. In the name of the heirs, please speak to March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U249	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I'm dropping trees in a hot oven, and it's as if I'm sorry about the trees, they're disappearing more completely into the fire, and little of what's left of them. The coalition agreement sets out the principle that the number of government jobs will decrease in line with the decline in the working age population. In total, 750 people are planned to be made redundant, or 1.5% of the public sector's workforce. A total of EUR 13 million per year is recorded. In this regard, we have the following questions for you. 'What positions do the Ministry of Education and Research concentrate on administrative matters? Please mention the positions, the institutions and the number of people. '''How much of the redundancies are teachers? Which schools or regions of which schools are planned to bring these teachers together (Maybe trigger them. (M.S.)? ' 'How does this concentration have a predictable impact on the quality of education and the regional availability of education? ' How do you assess the situation in which the numbers of redundancies have been declared, but there is no knowledge of which agencies and posts are affected? How do you justify keeping people so ignorant? " Those were the questions. When upper secondary school parts were killed, or organized into a school network, rumors were released that, for example, the Jagu upper secondary school would cease its activities next year. And that school wasn't gonna have a tenth grader anymore because the rumor worked in the media and everywhere. The story that the high school was being shut down worked, and no children were brought to the tenth grade, and they were already moved somewhere else. Now there's a rumor that it's going to be a terrible lay-off. But who's closing in? Teachers' rooms sizzle and all the time they ask the directors who, where, what. The directors sit and wonder from morning to evening whether the seats will go from them or from anyone else, whether they will take away two or three pieces, and where they can concentrate. Only at the expense of in-depth learning or languages or anything else, because groups need to be gathered, otherwise they will not have enough money. Nobody knows these things. No one knows where the point is. You know, if you knew a little bit about it, you could fix it. Who pays the redundancy allowance and to what extent is it paid? Is that what the law says, or are we in a crisis situation? Man is completely unaware. And it can be said that not only is a person a teacher even slightly higher, because in his case there are very important components in the game, both athletic, social, emotional and empathetic components. Unfortunately, it doesn't make sense to look at the virtually empty hall here, whether these components exist on these 50s and plus one commie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U250	Thank you. Now, please, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U251	I don't think I'm reading a poem right now. Doesn't matter, does it? Well, then I'm gonna start right now. 'What positions do the Ministry of Education and Research concentrate on administrative matters? ' First of all, administratively, people who are qualified as officials, as well as employees of foundations, are directly laid off. That's how we set our plans. However, basically, we have a reduction in the number of employees by means of indirect methods, i.e. structural reforms that are not subject to individual ministerial decisions on staff, but reduce labour needs as such. They concern schools, which are known to be in the administration of local governments, as well as high schools, where I strongly encourage reforms. And all of this is not to unite and save, but to accompany the decline of our working-age population. Apparently, my predecessor, Mailis, was joking when he gave the last speech here, anyway, he laughed when he left his seat. But I certainly was not sent to the Ministry of Education to cut its budget, and as Minister of Finance, I never cut the budget for education and science. On the contrary, I always took it as a priority to get extra money from the government. I am, however, hoping that structural reforms will help me more than some people from a different background. I think the second question was, too. 'How much of the redundancies are teachers? " Which schools and so on? As has already been said, our teachers are not laid off. We favour the structural reforms that have been discussed and which help to save and improve the labour force, as well as those that have deteriorated in education. Squares per student and teachers per student are increasing and certainly this is not sustainable. We would still like to move money from concrete to brains and part-time teachers to work properly. Question 3: "How is this concentration expected to affect the quality of education and the regional availability of education? ' It's only good. Question 4: How do you assess the situation in which the numbers of redundancies have been declared, but there is no knowledge of which agencies and posts are affected? How do you justify keeping people so ignorant? ' I very much appreciate this because specific plans are made according to a specific budget that the Riigikogu has not yet given us. Indeed, the temporary trend is a decline in the number of teachers, not through ministerial personnel decisions, but through indirect processes. After all, some teachers are always of retirement age, so this process is not too painful. But yes, in the case of education, quality is what we focus on. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U252	Thank you. You have questions too. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Education is certainly not an issue that should be joked about when we talk about money or lay off. That's not what I'm doing, and I'm assuming the minister isn't either. But now that we are talking about redundancy, there have already been some rather worrying notes going through the press that hospital managers have been given the obligation to concentrate and then try to find these resources. What about public schools, our vocational education centres and schools for children with special needs? What are your instructions for state schools? It's clear that there you are the decision-maker and the keeper.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U254	Thank you. I promised the government I wouldn't make that kind of mechanical cut decision. Overall, as a result of our activities, labour needs will decrease more than the virtual quota, if I may say so. But we don't go after teachers in schools that need teachers, and there's gonna be more state gymnasiums. We would still like a particular teacher to work full-time and full-time. It is easier to do this in state secondary schools than in municipal schools, which have a greater regional policy meaning and which are not subject to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U255	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U256	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We know what's going on with the money and the state budget. And we also know how much excise duties will rise in 2016, 2017 and 2018. I believe that you have also taken part in the negotiation when we were talking about redundancy of 750 people in 2016. Will this rate be maintained in 2017 and 2018 or will it only be done once and then help?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U257	Thank you. It is rather a continuous process because the number of people of working age is predictable and the public sector cannot be a burden on the private sector by taking away their employees. So the process continues, the education system is able to do so and, overall, it also saves money in favour of quality. I hope this won't be taken away from us again. I really hope so, and I think that knowledge exists in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U258	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U259	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! As for schools, you said that some teachers are retiring. In schools, this retirement limit, which is established nationally, is no longer valid, for example for science teachers. How can you bring retirement as a reason for leaving teachers when, for example, in the past and past year, a student started to study as a physics teacher in the middle of Tallinn University?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U260	Thank you. This fact does not change demographic processes. People are getting old. Even teachers are aging and their average age is, I guess, about 46 years old, which means that many of them are at a age when they're getting sidetracked. But the teachers' follow-up is under our attention, and we're doing everything we can to make sure that the next generation is better. Teachers' salaries, teachers' rights, the general reputation of the teaching profession and teacher training are all the things we deal with. The non-profit sector and some of the projects that we finance will also help us here.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U261	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U262	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned earlier that the Ministry does not fire any teachers, but at the same time it is 'insisting' on the organization of the school network, which is, as we all know, euphemism used instead of closing schools. In essence, the position of the Ministry is that you close your schools, in which case the teachers' jobs will disappear, and then we'll see if there's more money. Can't you see there's a direct connection to the fact that the Ministry is also collapsing teachers' jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U263	Thank you. I mentioned that obvious indirect connection. I'm not in charge of the municipalities that they have to do, but I'm making deals with them. For example, if a state upper secondary school is established, the local government must give up some upper secondary school in its schools. We offer them a new environment. They can focus on the development of basic education, and we will in turn allocate money according to the applications for the organisation of the comprehensive school network so that schools can be built properly. And I'd still call it tidying up, because there's a building element, there's an economical use element, and there's an upper secondary school separation element. Shutting down isn't exactly the right word. This is only one of the possible steps, which is also a fact in the counties. The school itself will, of course, be closed and in the future probably at a faster rate than the eight schools of the year. After all, we have over 500 schools and the number of children has fallen faster than the number of square meters and the number of schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U264	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You mentioned, when you dealt with the previous question, that you are not satisfied with the budget allocation either. Maybe you'll be more specific. And I ask you whether or not this will discourage you from acting as a minister in your field of management.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U265	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U266	Thank you. I'm, of course, the kind of guy who gets energy boosted by heavy tasks, so maybe inhibition isn't a proper word here. I will certainly fight for my drafts more energetically, in budgetary disputes. But the fact is that the question is not here whether this division is hindering my activity, but that it is not good for the Estonian state, because, through science and education, we can still establish ourselves as a state and as a nation in the world and survive. As I have already said, I hope that next spring the debate on the country's budgetary strategy will be different. Our coalition agreement was very ambitious, but it is true that they were not written into the original coalition agreement tables in a binding manner. However, the fact that education will cover 6 to 7% of GDP is not real in the near future and current estimates suggest that basic research funding will not reach 1% either. So we have somewhere to spend. After all, from the coalition's agreements, it was confirmed in August that teachers' salaries would rise to 120%. And that's probably the number I can put in front of the government most really. However, I would also like to reach out to other issues, to talk about the content of education and science, not just about the pay of teachers all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U267	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U268	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The establishment and location of new state secondary schools concerned municipalities and the public already during previous governments. Can you tell me where, for example, state secondary schools are coming in Harjumaa today?
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U269	Thank you. I don't know how right now, but I think in the next few weeks I'll be able to see a study that's been commissioned and I've been waiting to answer those questions. There will be an offer, but it will be a difficult decision, where there will certainly be different considerations, and ultimately a political decision will still have to be made. It's just that this study is likely to give that decision more authority. After all, there is a rapidly growing 'golden circle' in Harju County, where young people have moved to and where children come from, where the need for school space is growing, and where they want a lot more basic school and upper secondary school. It's been decided about Viimsi here. In general terms, the content of the agreements, as well as the regulation on this measure, is that the school network is organised, one of the elements of which is the closure of schools, one of which is the construction of their smaller size and one is the separation of the upper secondary school network, as well as the establishment of secondary schools. So this is one of the opposite considerations. Rae Municipality would be delighted to adopt a regulation of a basic school and measure, which I have already signed or will soon sign, but I have been told that it has not yet been signed, but I felt that it is, because the content has been agreed, does not quite rule out the addition. We have also left this opportunity, but there are certainly those who give us clear savings above, because this is the way that was agreed with the European Commission when the European money was allocated to us. So the question was understandable. There are wanters. There's Saue in the Golden Circle, there's Rae, there's still a few places, but there's no answers yet. There are also wanters in Tallinn. Six upper secondary schools in Harjumaa are probably what we mean, and they have been decided on against Viimsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U270	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U271	Honourable Vice President! Colleagues! Good minister! I'm the guy you said about yourself, too, and I'm going to take on some very difficult tasks and try to solve them because I'm enjoying it. I hope you do, too. But you'll enjoy it when you get a positive and a good result. This means that you will reach your goal, no matter how long it takes. But that depends on how much you're willing to give up your free time, your peace of mind, your peace of mind, and so on. If you're not willing to give them up, you're not going to get what you've been proposing. The number of complicated children in schools is increasing in geometric progression. The state cannot actually pay off even what is required to meet the minimum requirements of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Schools must combine to comply with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I'm not going to count schools with no gyms. I'm not going to count schools that don't have stadiums. I'm not going to count schools without chemistry offices, physics offices, language offices. And if you think the computer is replacing everything I read, you're very wrong. This big, big computer deal that's spread out in schools... Goodbye, Minister. He didn't even bother to finish what I said. And there are no coalition ambassadors in the hall. [[A voice from the hall.]] I'm sorry! Oh, my God, I'm sorry! I mean, there is one, but he's on a whole different mission right now. So this issue, alone, matters to us, to the opposition. Why am I saying this long story? Just for the verbogram. In fact, the state is not directly interested in being consistent and sustainable; it is not preparing the future generation. That's what I was gonna say. Power and strength for us who have a heart inside and who have empathy! Power and strength for us to fight all sorts of interesting windmills! And be tougher than Jurgen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U272	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Colleagues, therefore, the debate on the ninth item is also over and we have responded to all of today's enquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2015-11-16_U273	After the hammer hit, all colleagues will be able to speak in a free microphone. There are no words. Today's trial is over. Thank you, and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 20.01.
